DRN-4528763
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about poor advice from Nationwide Building Society when they 
ported their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M met with Nationwides mortgage adviser in May 2022. They were moving 
home and expected their sale and purchase to complete in late June 2022 or early July 
2022. Mr and Mrs M had a fixed interest rate product that was due to expire on 30 November 
2022. They applied to port their mortgage product and take out additional borrowing with a 
new product. Nationwide issued a mortgage offer in May 2022.  
Mr and Mrs M say they spoke to the mortgage adviser again in mid-July 2022, as they were 
thinking of switching rates. Their sale was delayed and they were worried about interest 
rates increasing. They say they were advised not to switch as this could cause confusion 
with completion. They say they were told they could switch rates immediately after 
completion. This was incorrect: Nationwide doesnt allow switching until the first payment 
has been made. Mr and Mrs M say they would not have waited three months to switch 
products had they been given correct information.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties explaining why I upheld this complaint. In 
summary, I said Nationwide had given Mr and Mrs M incorrect information in July 2022 and 
should pay an additional £200 for the trouble and upset this caused. However, I didnt think 
Mr and Mrs M would have acted differently if theyd been given correct information. So I 
didnt think it was fair to require Nationwide to offer them a lower interest rate product. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. In summary, Mrs M said they could have taken out a new 
product effective from 1 August 2022 without paying an ERC and ported the new product to 
the new mortgage when their sale and purchase completed. She says they could have done 
this while keeping the rate for the additional borrowing in the mortgage offer issued in May 
2022. Mrs M said shed checked this with Nationwide. 
This was very different from the information wed been given by Nationwide. So we asked it 
to comment on what Mr and Mrs M had said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When Mr and Mrs M took mortgage advice in May 2022, they expected their sale and 
purchase to complete in June or July 2022. This meant their choices were to pay the early 
repayment charge (ERC) and take out a new product for the whole loan amount. Or port 
their product and take out a new product for the additional borrowing  which is what they 
decided to do.
The completion of Mr and Mrs Ms sale and purchase was delayed, and they contacted 
Nationwide for further advice in mid-July 2022.
Mrs M called Nationwide on 12 July 2022. She said she was worried about delays with their 
sale and wanted to discuss what options they had, including possibly completing on the 
purchase before the sale. Nationwide said this might be possible but would need Mr and 
Mrs M to make new applications, due to the number of changes. Mrs M said she didnt want 
to lose the mortgage rate theyd agreed for the additional borrowing. The call handler said 
Mrs M should speak to the mortgage adviser.
Mrs M emailed the mortgage adviser and a call was arranged for 14 July 2022. Based on the 
available evidence, I think this call did go ahead. Unfortunately, Nationwide cant provide 
notes or a recording of the call. Nationwide said no changes were made to the application, 
which suggests it was a call with some queries. It said it would only document changes to its 
advice.
Mr and Mrs M have told us why their exchange and completion were delayed and provided 
evidence to support what they said. Based on this, I think that when Mrs M spoke to the 
mortgage adviser on 14 July 2022, they expected completion of their sale and purchase to 
take place after 1 September 2022.
Mrs M says she was told by the mortgage adviser that making changes to the mortgage offer 
could cause confusion for the solicitors. And that they could switch products immediately 
after completion. Mrs M says given her concerns over interest rate rises, she would have 
proceeded with a product switch if shed known this wasnt the case. She said they were 
within the window to choose a product to take effect on 1 September 2022 before porting the 
product to the new property on the 8 September 2022. Mrs M said they wouldnt have risked 
waiting until October 2022 to switch. In response to our investigators view, Mrs M said this 
was the point that she wanted my final decision to address.
I think the messages exchanged by Mrs M and the mortgage adviser support what Mrs M 
says she was told on 14 July 2022 (that she could switch products as soon as the mortgage 
completed). For instance, the mortgage adviser sent a message in September 2022 which 
said Mrs M could call for advice or go online to choose a new deal instantly.
On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mrs M was told (incorrectly) during the call in 
mid-July 2022 that theyd be able to switch product immediately after completion.
But this isnt the end of the matter. I have to consider what Mr and Mrs M would (or could) 
have done differently if theyd been given correct information in mid-July 2022  that they 
couldnt switch products until theyd made a payment after completion.
In doing so, Ive taken the following into account.
Nationwide says customers cant make an application to port a product until the product is 
active. That means if Mr and Mrs M had arranged for a new product to take effect on 1 
September 2022 they wouldnt have been able to make an application to port the product 
until it was active, in early September 2022. I think its very unlikely Mr and Mrs M would 
have chosen to do this, which would have put them at risk of not having a mortgage offer in 
place at completion.
Mr and Mrs M say they could have switched products with the new product taking effect on 1 August 2022 without paying an ERC. Nationwide said thats not right. It says a product can 
be reserved up to five months before the existing product is due to expire. But the earliest a 
new product could take effect without an ERC being paid is three months before the expiry 
date  in this case that would be 1 September 2022.
Mrs M said while they didnt believe it would have been necessary, they would have paid the 
ERC to switch earlier as this would have made financial sense. However, Nationwide says if 
they switched products the existing mortgage offer would have been withdrawn as this would 
be considered a material change.
Mrs M said on the call on 12 July 2022 that she didnt want to re-start the application or lose 
the rate for the additional borrowing. She confirmed in her response to my provisional 
decision that they didnt want to lose the rate for the additional borrowing.
I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have switched products if this meant theyd have lost 
the 2.54% five-year fixed rate for the additional borrowing. The equivalent five-year rate 
available on 14 July 2022 was 3.29%, this increased to 3.34% on 19 July 2022. The 
additional borrowing was the larger part of the new mortgage loan. Mr and Mrs Ms existing 
mortgage (on a rate of 2.14%) would have moved to a higher rate sooner than 1 December 
2022. And, if a new product had taken effect before 1 September 2022, theyd have paid the 
ERC.
I understand that Mr and Mrs M were worried about interest rates rising, and would have 
wanted to secure a new rate as soon as possible. But I have to balance this against the 
significant downsides of switching products and making a new application in mid-July 2022. 
Overall, even if theyd been given correct advice, I think Mr and Mrs M would have decided 
to continue with the mortgage offer they already had.
I think Nationwide applied its policy correctly when it said Mr and Mrs M had to make a 
mortgage payment before they could switch products.
It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Nationwide to apply a product 
with a lower interest rate to Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage.
I do think though that the incorrect information caused unnecessary upset and trouble.
Mrs M couldnt carry out a product switch online after completion. When she tried this, she 
got a message that the service was for existing customers only. Mrs M called Nationwide on 
13 September 2022 but the call handler didnt explain what the real problem was. And Mrs M 
received a message from the mortgage adviser that same day suggesting she could choose 
a new deal online instantly. After Mrs M was told they needed to make a payment, there was 
further confusion as to whether they had to wait until theyd made a monthly payment on the 
due date or if they could switch after making an earlier payment.
Its clear from the calls that Mrs M was worried about rates increasing before she was able to 
secure a new product. Some of Mr and Mrs Ms worry and frustration could have been 
avoided if Nationwide had given them clear information. I think Nationwide should pay 
compensation of £200 for the upset and trouble this caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Nationwide Building Society to pay 
compensation of £200. This is in addition to the £100 compensation it paid for delays in 
responding to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 January 2024.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman