DRN-2188844
The complaint
Mr H believes Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, acted irresponsibly by 
agreeing two loans hed applied for.
What happened
In September 2015 Mr H took out a £1,000 loan with Everyday, to be repaid over 24 months 
with repayments of £107.03 a month. In May 2016 he took out a £2,000 loan with Everyday, 
to be repaid over 24 months with repayments of £205.73 a month. The second loan was 
used to repay the outstanding balance on the first loan.
Mr H has complained that Everyday didnt act responsibly when approving the loans, and 
that they werent affordable when all of his circumstances were taken into consideration. 
This has led to him being unable to repay the second loan.
Our investigator thought Everyday had fully considered all of Mr Hs circumstances when 
approving the first loan and that the loan was affordable. The investigator thought Everyday 
couldve done more checks for the second loan, but he didnt think these checks wouldve 
meant it wasnt reasonable for them to approve this loan. So he didnt think Everyday 
needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. Hes said Everyday didnt take other loans he had 
into consideration when approving their loans, and that he was struggling to maintain 
payments on his financial commitments at the time. And he says that hed defaulted on 
another loan in February 2016.
Mr H has also said that hes been charged more interest on the second loan than the original 
agreement said he would. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Everyday have provided the documents they checked at the time they approved Mr Hs 
loans.
For the first loan Everyday did a credit check which confirmed Mr H had one loan and four 
revolving credit (credit card, mail order account etc.) facilities. This also showed Mr H had no 
defaults or other adverse credit. There was one late payment showing in 2015, and two 
missed payments on a finance agreement thatd been settled in 2011.
Everyday checked Mr Hs bank statements for the period 31 July to 1 September 2015. 
These showed hed been paid £1,377.28 in both July and August 2015. They also showed 
Mr H had payday loans. Everyday investigated the payday loans, and all but one had been 
repaid. Their notes show Mr H intended to use some of this loan to clear the remaining 
payday loan.
In calculating whether this loan was affordable, Everyday used the £1,377.28 income figure. 
Although he was living with his parents, they accounted for £320 a month rent payment, 
payments to all of the credit agreements showing on the credit search and bank statements 
(including the payday loan Mr H intended to repay) and allowed for £500.00 a month for 
living expenses. Taking all of this into consideration, and after deducting their new loan 
payment, Mr H had £155.46 disposable income each month.
Given the above, Im satisfied that Everyday did proportionate and appropriate checks when 
approving the first loan. And the fact that Mr H maintained repayments on this loan shows 
me that it was affordable for him.
For the second loan Everyday did a credit check which confirmed Mr H had two loans and 
four revolving credit facilities. This also showed Mr H had a recent default and had missed 
payments on his credit cards.
They checked Mr Hs bank statements for the period 3 March to 2 May 2016. These showed 
Mr H had been paid £2,055.38 in March and £1,552.22 in April 2016. They also showed Mr 
H was transferring money to and from another account. Everyday also checked Mr Hs bank 
statements for a different account for the period 22 February 2016 to 21 March 2016. This 
account showed the matching transfers to and from the first account. It also showed a loan 
payment of £30 a month.
I think Everyday shouldve got statements for the second account for April and May 2016. Mr 
H cant provide copies of these statements now, but he has said he only used the account 
for general purchases, and not for paying credit agreements. Hes provided statements for a 
third account, which he opened in April 2016. These statements cover April and May 2016, 
and also show general purchases  not any credit agreement repayments.
So, while I feel Everyday shouldve got more statements; based on what Ive seen there 
were no payments to any credit agreements that Everyday were unaware of. So I dont think 
them not getting these statements made any difference to the overall decision they reached.
In calculating whether the second loan was affordable, Everyday used the lower of the 
income figures showing on the bank statements. Although he was living with his parents, 
they accounted for £320 a month rent payment, as well as payments to all of the credit 
agreements showing on the credit search and bank statements. They also allowed for 
£543.28 a month living expenses. Taking all of this into consideration, and after deducting 
their new loan payment, Mr H had £379.21 disposable income each month  almost 25% of 
his net monthly wage.And what I thinks important when looking at the affordability for the second loan is that Mr H 
was consolidating his loan with Everyday and another loan. The total payments for these two 
loans were £207.03 a month, and Mr H was replacing them with a single payment of 
£205.73 a month. Mr H had maintained payments to his Everyday loan, and the credit 
reference shows that hed maintained payments to the other loan he was consolidating. 
So, regardless of any missed payments on any other agreements, or any other adverse 
credit he had; Mr H had demonstrated he could afford to maintain payments of £207.03 a 
month. So I dont think it was unreasonable of Everyday to assess that hed be able to 
continue payments at £205.73 a month.
Given the above, while Everyday couldve done more checks, as these wouldnt have 
revealed anything adverse, Im satisfied that Everyday have shown Mr H could afford the 
second loan at the time he applied for it. So I wont be asking Everyday to refund any 
payments, charges or interest.
Mr H has said Everyday shouldve taken the default into consideration and declined his 
application for the second loan. But Everyday lend money to people whove had previous 
financial difficulties, so Itd be unfair of me to say they shouldnt have approved this loan 
solely because of the default. Everyday took the default into consideration when they made 
their lending decision, and they approved a loan that was demonstrably affordable at the 
time. So I dont think they did anything wrong by doing so.
Everyday charged interest on a daily basis, and the total amount of interest they told Mr H 
hed pay was based on him making the agreed payments on the agreed day for the full term 
of the loan. But Mr H didnt do this. He paid the August 2017 payment late; and he didnt pay 
the payments for September 2017, October 2017, January 2018 or from April 2018 onwards.
The interest was calculated daily on the outstanding balance. And the outstanding balance 
was higher that originally expected because Mr H was late paying, or didnt pay, some of the 
payments. So the interest thats been charged is more than that what was expected to be 
charged in the original agreement. While Mr H has said that the amount of outstanding 
interest is still very high, the above is the reason for this. And I dont think that Everyday did 
anything wrong by continuing to charge interest on the unpaid amount. So I wont be asking 
them to reduce or waive the outstanding interest.
But Mr H is in financial difficulties and struggling to repay the loan. So Id expect Everyday to 
deal with these circumstances fairly and sympathetically, and look to arrange a payment 
plan thats affordable for Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Everyday Lending 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman