DRN-2463922
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) have added a Credit Industry 
Fraud Awareness System (CIFAS) maker against his name. And hed like this removed. 
What happened
Mr B explains that in 2018 he opened an account with NatWest but this was closed later that 
year. At this point he discovered a marker was loaded against him in 2016 for Application 
Fraud with CIFAS, the fraud prevention agency. Mr B proceeded to complain to NatWest 
about the loading of this marker. He couldnt understand why a marker had been loaded in 
2016 when he didnt apply for a NatWest account at that time and was confused why 
NatWest had initially granted him an account in 2018.
Mr B was also unhappy that hed been incorrectly advised in branch that the marker would 
be removed and hed been transferred around different departments when speaking to the 
branch.  
NatWest looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. The bank said they have sufficient 
evidence to load a marker against Mr Bs name, and they couldnt find any evidence Mr B 
was informed by branch staff the marker would be removed. And they wouldnt be removing 
it. And although they couldnt find evidence he was advised the marker would be removed in 
branch they apologised for the error.  
Mr B wasnt happy with NatWests response so brought his complaint to our service. Mr B 
says because of the CIFAS marker hes unable to open a bank account.  
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B explained to our investigator that in 2015 he lost his identity documents, including his 
international passport and provisional driving licence. Our investigator asked Mr B for any 
evidence to show he reported them as lost or correspondence with his embassy regarding 
replacements. But Mr B wasnt able to provide this. 
 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Bs complaint but reached the conclusion that NatWest had 
acted fairly in loading the marker. And didnt ask NatWest to do anything further.  And in 
summary said:
-Hes not seen any evidence to show Mr B received a new identification card from his 
embassy in 2016.
-The application was completed in branch.
-And the identification provided was confirmed as a true likeness to Mr B. 
-He thought NatWest had sufficient evidence to load the marker. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion, and in response said he said:
-I have a twin brother.
-Why did they give me a new account?
-Why would he provide altered documents if hed genuinely applied for the account?
Because Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion it was referred to me for a decision. 
On reviewing the case I came to the same conclusion as our investigator but expanded on 
the reasoning. 
I issued my provisional decision on the 9 December 2020 and asked NatWest and Mr B to 
either accept or reject my decision and respond with further comments by the 
23 December 2020. NatWest havent responded, but Mr B responded to say that he didnt 
accept my conclusion. Mr B explained he had more proof from his embassy and the police 
which shows his brother must have carried out the fraud. Our investigator explained to Mr B 
that he had until the 23 December 2020 to provide evidence to our service  but Mr B didnt 
provide any further documents. 
Because Mr B didnt accept my provisional decision, Ive reviewed my outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And in doing so Ive not changed the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why below:
In my provisional decision I said:
NatWest have recorded a marker for Application Fraud against Mr B. NatWest arent 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr B is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, 
but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. CIFAS 
says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that NatWest must first be able to show that Mr B was 
deliberately dishonest when applying for his account with the bank. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. 
The relevant finding for me to make is whether I think there is sufficient evidence to meet the 
standard of proof, to determine whether NatWest were entitled to escalate their concerns. 
Ive thought about whether Im satisfied with the evidence NatWest have provided first, 
before moving on to consider Mr Bs response. Ive seen a copy of the account application 
made in May 2016, and the documents provided alongside it. Ive also seen the document 
NatWest claim has been amended, and the original document. And Im satisfied the 
document has been altered from the original. Ive considered if I think that whoever amended 
the document likely did so with intent and dishonestly. And I think they most likely did. I say 
this as Im satisfied the amended document increased the applicants chances of obtaining 
an account  therefore I can see a clear motivation here. This leads me to conclude that NatWest had sufficient evidence to conclude fraud was likely 
attempted. But importantly I need to decide whether Im satisfied its more likely that not Mr B 
made the application.
Ive thought about Mr Bs original representations to our service. Hes maintained throughout 
his contact with our service that he didnt apply for the bank account, and someone must 
have applied using his identification documents which he lost the year before the account 
was opened.
 
Ive considered this, but I find it unlikely. Firstly our investigator has asked Mr B to provide 
evidence to show the documents he lost in 2015 were replaced  but hes been unable to do 
so. NatWest have provided evidence that the bank account was opened with a valid 
passport in 2016, and their checks confirmed that the individual making the application in 
branch had a true likeness to Mr B. Mr Bs explained he has a twin brother  but I dont find 
this the most likely explanation. And lastly I find it surprising if Mr B lost his documents in 
2015 a fraudster would wait until May 2016 to use them and then instead of applying for a 
form of credit, and benefiting financially, theyd decide to apply for a bank account. Even 
more surprisingly theyd go to such great lengths by amending a document in Mr Bs name 
to increase their chances of obtaining the account. Overall, for these reasons Im satisfied 
its more likely than not Mr B applied for the NatWest account in 2016 and provided the 
amended document. 
Mr B responded to our investigators view by querying why NatWest would allow him to open 
an account  albeit temporarily in 2018. NatWest are entitled to decide  as Mr B is  who he 
contracts with. CIFAS rules make it clear that the loading of a marker on its own shouldnt 
prevent a customer obtaining an account. Whether NatWest decided to offer Mr B a bank 
account in 2018 doesnt impact on my conclusions about whether it was fair for them to load 
a CIFAS marker against him in 2016. 
In summary I think NatWest have met the burden of proof required by CIFAS to load a 
marker, and it follows I wont be asking them to remove it. 
Mr B responded to my provisional decision by advising he had proof that his brother must 
have carried out the fraud  however hes not provided this evidence to our service. Ive 
already considered the possibility of Mr Bs brother applying for the NatWest account without 
Mr Bs knowledge in 2016, and I concluded this was unlikely. Without further evidence to 
support this explanation I see no reason to reach a different outcome.
In conclusion for the reasons Ive outlined above Im satisfied that NatWest have met the 
burden of proof required by CIFAS to load a marker. And I wont be asking them to do 
anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman