DRN-2911453
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt reimbursed a withdrawal of £500 from his bank 
account which he says was made without his authority.
What happened
Mr B has a bank account with Lloyds. In 2020, he tried to withdraw cash from a cash 
machine using his debit card. But he says the card was retained by the machine and didnt 
dispense any cash. He says that a man behind him told him to enter his PIN while pressing 
the cancel button on the machine  but he didnt do this.
After he returned home, he says he noticed two transactions on the account he didnt 
recognise: a withdrawal from a cash machine of £360, and a further withdrawal, from 
another cash machine, of £140. So he contacted Lloyds to see if theyd refund the 
transactions. Lloyds didnt, so he referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
based on everything shed seen, it seemed more likely that Mr B had approved the 
transactions.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 August 2021. I said that Id 
considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of the complaint. Id taken into account relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I said that in Mr Bs case the relevant law was the Payment Service Regulations 2017. 
These say that a payment transaction is authorised by the payer where the payer has given 
its consent to the execution of the payment transaction. Such consent must be given in the 
form and in accordance with the procedure agreed between the payer and the payment 
service provider. 
I said that unless the payment service provider can show consent has been given, it has no 
authority to make a payment or debit the customers account. 
Where a payment service user denies having authorised a payment transaction, it is for the 
payment service provider to provide that the payment transaction was authenticated, 
accurately recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts, and not affected by 
a technical breakdown or some other deficiency in the service provided by the payment 
service provider.
With this in mind, I thought the main question I needed to decide was whether Lloyds has 
shown that Mr B had authorised the transactions subject to this dispute.
I first thought about what Mr B said happened. Mr B had sent us a police report he made at 
the time. This said that at around 18:30 on the day in question, Mr B had entered his debit 
card into an ATM. The ATM made a sound and flashed at the entry point of the card. Mr B 
said hed pressed cancel to retrieve the card  but a message appeared saying the card had 
been retained. He said he was then approached by someone who told him to keep pressing 
the cancel button  and who then suggested he enter his PIN at the same time. Mr B said he 
didnt do this. He says he tried to press cancel again, and left the ATM. The same person 
then told him to come to the branch again the next day.
Mr B says he then contacted the bank that owned the ATM. He says the machine provider 
told him to contact Lloyds. He says he was also told by the machine provider via social 
media that the card would have been destroyed. He then returned home and noticed two 
transactions that had been made on his account. He then reported things to Lloyds. Lloyds, 
however, thought the transactions were authorised by Mr B.
I therefore tested what Mr B had said against the other information Id seen.
Lloyds had provided records showing what happened at the two ATMs. According to this, at 
around 19:01, Mr Bs card was used to carry out a balance enquiry. At first, an incorrect PIN 
was entered, but on the second attempt a correct PIN was entered and £360 was withdrawn 
from the account.
Then, at 19:09, the card was used at another ATM at a branch of Lloyds around a mile away 
from the first one. It appeared attempts were made to transfer £1,200 from Mr Bs savings 
account. This was unsuccessful. This was followed by a further withdrawal of £140, taking 
Mr Bs account around £91 overdrawn.
In both cases, the ATM read the chip on the card and a PIN was entered. And so I was 
satisfied that whoever made the transactions had both the card and Mr Bs PIN. But that 
doesnt on its own, mean that Mr B was responsible for these transactions. I need to be 
satisfied that Mr B consented to them.
I considered the possibility that someone else made these transactions without Mr Bs 
consent. Based on what Mr B had said happened at the ATM, I accepted that it was possible 
that someone else got access to his card. Hed said the card was retained by the machine, 
and that he was approached by a suspicious individual who tried to get him to reveal his 
PIN. Im aware fraudsters can attach devises to ATMs allowing them to retain cards so they 
can be retrieved and used later.
I also noted that some of the information Id seen supports Mr Bs contention that he was no 
longer in possession of the card. In particular, Lloydss records showed that Mr B logged into 
his online banking at 18:53 on the day in question and froze his card. I understand this would 
have prevented most use of the card online, at tills and terminals and abroad (although not 
necessarily at ATMs). That said, I also noted that Mr B had later logged on  at 19:55  to 
remove the freeze before reinstating it at 20:00. I dont know why Mr B did this, or why, 
having been able to freeze his card, he didnt instead report it as lost or stolen.
But if thats how Mr Bs card was taken, whoever did this needed Mr Bs PIN. Mr B has told 
us, and the police, that he never entered the PIN into the ATM. He says he was not 
prompted to enter his PIN into the ATM, did not do so, and nor did he enter his PIN after he 
was approached by the man who suggested he try this to retrieve his card. Mr B also says 
he hadnt written the PIN down anywhere, and that it wasnt easy to guess. So even if the 
ATM had been tampered with, this doesnt explain how the fraudster then went on to 
successfully use the card.
Given Mr Bs very clear explanation of what happened, I found it very hard to see how Mr Bs 
PIN might have been compromised. I didnt think it was likely that someone would have just guessed it. But that raised real questions as to how someone other than Mr B could have 
made these transactions.
I therefore considered the other possibility: that Mr B consented to these transactions. Based 
on what Mr B had said, he was in the area where these transactions were made on the 
evening in question. He was fairly close to the place where the first transaction was made at 
around the same time. The second transaction was made around 10 minutes later, at a 
Lloyds branch ATM. In order to get to the branch of Lloyds, whoever travelled there needed 
to pass a number of other cash machines  with the real risk that the card would be 
cancelled by its owner. And whoever made these transactions appeared to have known Mr B 
had a second account with Lloyds. In both cases, Mr Bs PIN was entered.
I was also mindful that Mr B had a number of opportunities to report the card lost or stolen  
but didnt. He appeared to have accessed his online banking at least three times before he 
got home  and during those sessions froze and unfroze transactions on the card but didnt 
cancel the card. Having considered everything, I was satisfied Mr Bs card and PIN were 
used to make these transactions. While Mr B had provided, on the face of it, plausible 
reasons for how his card might have been taken, this doesnt explain how the PIN was 
compromised. And in the absence of a better explanation of how a third party might have 
known Mr Bs PIN, I thought it most likely that Mr B carried out the disputed transactions.
For these reasons, I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I said Id consider any further 
comments I received by 18 September.
Both Lloyds and Mr B confirm that theyve received my provisional decision. Mr B disagrees 
with my findings. Neither Lloyds nor Mr B have sent me anything further to consider. Ive 
considered the complaint again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Lloyds nor Mr B have sent me anything further to consider. I therefore reach the 
same conclusion I reached in my provisional decision for the same reasons. It follows that it 
was fair for Lloyds to refuse to refund Mr Bs two transactions.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman