DRN-1886628
The complaint
This complaint is about three mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken 
out between 1988 and 1991. Miss A and Mr V say  Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
Miss A and Mr V applied for mortgage Santander in 1988. At the same time they were sold a 
PPI policy. The policy covered Miss A and Mr V against being unable to work due to 
accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. The monthly cost of the PPI policy was 
£22.08 the policy benefit was £272. 
In December 1989 and again in May 1991 Miss A and Mr V took out further advances on 
their mortgage and were sold smaller PPI policies to cover them against accident, sickness 
or unemployment. In the event of a claim, all three policies would pay the monthly benefit for 
up to 24 months.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss A and Mr V disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion. So, the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policies were not mis-sold because:
The first sale took place over 30 years ago and the others shortly after. Where there is 
limited information, I will make my decision based on whats more likely to have happened, 
taking into account the evidence available, what both parties have told me and what we 
know about these types of sale.
Miss A and Mr V say they were pressured into buying the policies and were told the 
mortgages would not be approved unless they agreed to buy the PPI. On the other hand 
Santander has told us the policies would have been presented as optional.
Ive thought about this and also Ive looked at the paperwork that is available from the time of 
the sales.
Ive looked at the mortgage application form for the first mortgage. The form has been 
signed by Miss A and Mr V on 17 September 1988. I can see the form contains a section 
about PPI which reads,  other insurance available- please tick box if required. I can see 
there are two boxes, one for accident and sickness cover and one for accident, sickness and 
redundancy cover. The accident, sickness and redundancy cover box has been ticked and 
the words, please send details have been handwritten beside the box. Ive not seen 
anything in the application form that implies the PPI had to be taken for the mortgage to be 
approved. And the reference to sending details suggests Miss A and Mr V were given details 
of the cover rather than being asked to complete a PPI application at the time.
The application for the further advance signed by Miss A and Mr V in December 1989 states 
that, Life cover, and personal accident and sickness with or without redundancy cover can 
be arranged as optional extras. Please tick the appropriate box for the type of cover 
required. And I can see the box for accident, sickness and redundancy cover has been 
ticked.
So the paperwork from the time of the sales suggests Miss A and Mr V were given a choice 
about whether to take out the PPI. 
But Miss A and Mr V have said they were pressured and told they had to agree to take the 
cover in order to get the mortgages. I cant know what was said during the meetings and 
pressure is a subjective issue. What one person perceives as pressure , another may not. 
Ive no doubt the Santander representative would have told Miss A and Mr V that they 
should take out the PPI. But thats very different to saying they had to. Having considered 
everything Im not persuaded there is enough evidence to uphold the complaint on this point.
All this makes me think that Miss A and Mr V were most likely made aware the PPI was 
optional. And I think they chose to take the PPI knowing they didnt have to.
Santander recommended the PPI to Miss A and Mr V so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. 
The policies appear to have been set up to cover both Miss A and Mr V. From what Ive seen 
they were both eligible for the policies. And they were not affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover, for instance theyve told us they didnt have any existing 
medical conditions that would not have been covered.
Miss A and Mr V have told us they both would have received sick pay if they couldnt work. 
But these particular PPI policies could have paid them a monthly benefit for up to 24 months 
per claim if either became too unwell to work. And that is likely to have been longer than 
their full sick pay would last. So I still think they would have found them useful, particularly if 
they became unable to work for a prolonged period of time.
The policies would also have paid a monthly benefit if Miss A or Mr V had lost their job. 
Meaning they could use any redundancy pay for other living expenses.
Miss A and Mr V had some savings, but as they chose to keep the savings rather than use 
them to reduce their mortgage I think the savings were important to them. And the policies 
would have helped them to keep the savings intact if things went wrong. 
Its possible the information Santander gave Miss A and Mr V about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But I think they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong.         
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
In summary, I think its likely Santander made Miss A and Mr V aware the policies were 
optional and they chose to buy them. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policies Santander recommended were right for them. And I dont think any clearer or more complete 
information wouldve made them act differently and decline them.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman