DRN-3326002
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the service American International Group Limited (AIG) provided when 
he tried to make a claim for his faulty laptop. Mr A had gadget insurance for his laptop 
through his bank account. His complaint is about the insurer and its agents actions but, for 
ease, Ill refer only to the insurer.
What happened
Mr A tried to make a claim, but his laptop wasnt registered on the system. He called to 
register it and AIG confirmed it would take up to 48 hours. Over the following 12 days, Mr A 
called several more times and each time he was told the laptop would be registered. 
Because of his work commitments, Mr A went ahead and bought a new laptop, and he 
complained to AIG.
AIG upheld Mr As complaint. It agreed it had taken too long to register his laptop and 
offered him £95 compensation for the delays. He didnt think it was enough. Mr A thought 
AIG should reimburse him the cost of his new laptop.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He agreed the service hadnt been as good 
as it shouldve been, but he thought AIG had made a fair offer of compensation. Our 
investigator explained that a repair wouldve taken two to three weeks, so Mr A wouldnt 
have had his laptop back before he bought a new one anyway. He didnt think AIG should 
cover the cost of a new laptop and he didnt propose any further action for AIG.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the repair wouldnt have taken that long and AIG told him it would 
reimburse him the cost of his laptop.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022 saying I was minded not to uphold Mr As 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Mr As policy provided cover for a repair or replacement. But the issue is that he couldnt 
make a claim because AIG hadnt registered his laptop on its system. Because of that, he 
bought a new laptop and he thinks AIG should reimburse the cost. I wont address Mr As 
complaint about whether he was told to register the laptop by his bank: thats a matter for 
him to raise with the bank directly. But, looking at the evidence, it doesnt make a 
significant difference here. Thats because when Mr A called AIG to make a claim, it told 
him it would first register his laptop which would take a maximum of 48 hours.
Had AIG registered the laptop at that point, Mr A wouldve been able to make his claim. 
But it took a further 12 days to register his device. AIG hasnt disputed that it failed to 
provide the standard of service Mr A could reasonably expect. In summary, it made 
promises it didnt fulfil; closed his escalated queries prematurely and gave incorrect 
advice about when the claim might go through. AIG offered £95 to apologise for these 
shortfalls. While Mr A doesnt think thats enough, its in keeping with what I wouldve 
required if it hadnt made the offer at all. 
My remit here is to look at how AIG handled the claim and its clear that Mr A experienced 
inconvenience and delays as a result of its shortfalls. But the delay over and above the 
expected time to register his laptop was limited to around 10 days/one working week and 
its only that delay which Ive considered in terms of its effect on Mr As claim. I think £95 
compensation is reasonable for a delay of that length, so I wont be asking AIG to 
increase it.
To be clear, that doesnt mean Ive disregarded Mr As complaint that it was because of 
AIGs delay that he incurred the cost of a new laptop. Ive thought about how quickly Mr A 
mightve had his laptop back if hed been able to make a claim under AIGs repair or 
replacement service. Having listened to the calls, I note AIG told him from the outset that 
the options were to:
send his laptop away for repair; 
have someone attend his home for repair;
take it to a named repairer, or 
have a replacement.    
Each of these options meant that Mr A wouldve had a repaired or replacement laptop 
within around five days from making his claim. So, I agree with Mr A that its unlikely he 
wouldve needed to wait as long as three weeks. But, if hed chosen the replacement 
option on the day his laptop was registered, he wouldve received the replacement the 
next day, which AIG confirmed to him when he first tried to make a claim. So, the delay 
Im considering here is still just one working week.
Further, looking at the policy, it doesnt provide for a new laptop. It says: 
  
the replacement Device will be of the same make, model, and condition of the 
Device immediately prior to the incident giving rise to the claim.
Where [AIG] replaces the Device, the replacement will likely be a remanufactured - 
not brand new  Device.
So, Mr A wouldve received a laptop equivalent to his three-year old, used laptop. Given 
that Mr A wouldnt have received a brand-new laptop if hed successfully claimed, I see 
no reason for AIG to cover the cost of his new laptop now. 
I understand that Mr A is upset that he needed to buy a new laptop and he said AIG 
offered to reimburse the cost. Ive listened to the calls he had with AIG, but I cant 
completely agree with him. AIG recommended that he proceed with his claim for the faulty 
laptop and, under the circumstances, it may be able to consider a cash settlement. I think 
it was clear during that call that AIG wasn't making a promise, but it said it would note his 
file that he wouldnt necessarily need a replacement because hed bought a new laptop. 
Mr A rightly said that information wasn't included in AIGs final response to his complaint, 
but I dont think it needed to be. Thats because he hadnt made a claim and it wasn't an 
offer to resolve this complaint. 
So, if he hasnt already, Mr A may wish to make a claim under his policy and allow AIG 
the chance to settle his claim.
In summary, theres no dispute that AIG didnt handle Mr As attempt to claim under his 
policy as well as it shouldve done. However, it offered £95 compensation for the delays 
he experienced and recommended that he make a claim for his faulty laptop. I think thats 
reasonable in the circumstances and I see no reason to ask AIG to cover the cost of a 
new laptop which Mr A wouldnt have been entitled to under the policy, or to increase its 
compensation offer.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision. AIG didnt add anything further, but Mr A said 
he didnt receive the service hed paid for within the promised time limits and AIGs offer 
didnt go far enough in the circumstances. He likened it to being offered a flight for the day 
after he needed to travel. Mr A thinks AIG is in breach of contract.
my findings
Mr A acknowledged that the points he made are the same as those hed made when he first 
raised his complaint. Ive looked at the evidence again, but I cant see any reason to change 
my mind. 
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the compensation 
AIG offered is fair in the circumstances. But its not clear whether Mr A understands that he 
can still make a claim under his policy and AIG must consider it in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. While its unlikely hed receive full reimbursement for his new laptop  his 
policy didnt provide for that - theres a possibility that hed receive a cash settlement which 
would at least cover some of the cost. Thats a matter for him to raise directly with AIG, and 
one which AIG suggested to him.
On balance, Im satisfied that AIG made a fair offer in recognition of the service shortfalls, 
and that its offer to consider a claim, should Mr A wish to make one, was in line with the 
policy. I see no reason to ask AIG to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr As 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman