DRN-2577031
The complaint
Mr B complains that his account with Lloyds Bank PLC was blocked in 2018 and 2019.
What happened
Mr B has complained about a number of issues, but I will only be dealing with one of them 
here. The other matters he has raised are either out of our jurisdiction, or have been dealt 
with by us before, and so I wont consider them again. All of those matters arise out of a 
legal dispute between Mr B, who is an executor of his late mothers estate, and his siblings 
(at least one of whom is also an executor). Under a court order issued in 2014, Mr B was 
restrained from dealing with any funds belonging to the estate and held in Lloyds accounts, 
subject to two exceptions. One of the exceptions was that he was to be permitted to have 
£500 a week for his living expenses.
Mr B has three accounts with Lloyds. Initially all three accounts were blocked under the court 
order, but that order was varied by two further orders issued a few days later, and as a result 
two of the accounts were unblocked. One of those two accounts was blocked again in June 
2018, until February 2019, and Mr Bs complaint about that block is the matter with which 
I am dealing here.
The other matters Mr B wishes to complain about were all dealt with by this Service in 2014 
and 2018. In 2014, another ombudsman decided that the matters raised were more suitable 
to be dealt with in court, and so he declined to consider that complaint on its merits. Mr B 
brought another complaint in 2017, this time about events which had occurred since 2014, 
and in March 2018 one of our investigators issued his opinion about that complaint. He said 
he had no power to consider Mr Bs complaint that Lloyds had not allowed him access to his 
£500 a week, as Mr B had left it too long to bring that complaint under our Services time 
limits, Lloyds having given him its final response about that issue in 2015.1 He thought the 
rest of the complaint was within his jurisdiction, but he did not uphold it.
In June 2018, one of the unblocked accounts was blocked again. In early February 2019, 
Mr B phoned Lloyds about this. There is conflicting information about what he was told on 
the phone, but some three weeks later he went to a branch of Lloyds and the account was 
then unblocked again. In 2020 Mr B raised a complaint about that block with Lloyds. Lloyds 
denied that it had done anything wrong, and so in June 2020 Mr B brought this complaint to 
our Service.
Another of our investigators considered this complaint, but she did not uphold it. She 
emphasised that she was only considering the issue of the block in 2018-19. She said that 
Lloyds had told Mr B on the phone that to unblock the account he would need to come into 
the branch. She said it was not within her remit to tell Lloyds that it should have followed 
some other process to unblock the account. Once Mr B had visited the branch, the account 
was unblocked the same day, and she thought that was reasonable. She had seen evidence 
1 Generally, a complaint must be brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service within six months of 
the respondents final response letter, or else we cannot consider it. Mr B had waited 28 months. 
However, I understand that Mr B has since been able to access his permitted weekly expenses.
that Mr B had used the account since then. So she was satisfied that Lloyds had acted 
correctly.
Mr B did not accept that opinion, and so this matter has been referred to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigators decision to confine the scope of this case to the 2018-19 
block, and not to deal with any other matters. All of the other matters have already been 
considered before by my colleagues, and were variously ruled to be out of this Services 
jurisdiction, or unsuitable to be dealt with by this Service, or were considered on their merits 
and rejected. There is no reason for me to revisit any of those issues again here.
It is not clear why the account was blocked in 2018. Lloydss final response letter in June 
2020 says that it was because of the 2014 court order, but I am satisfied that that is not the 
case and is a mistake. There is evidence that the account was in use between 2014 and 
2018. I have seen evidence that in June 2018 Mr B reported to the police that there had 
been fraud on his account, and that is the same month in which the account was blocked, so 
that might be the true reason. However, I have not investigated this further, because the real 
focus of Mr Bs complaint appears to have been the banks actions in February 2019, rather 
than the reason the account was blocked in the first place.
There are two conflicting entries in the banks record of the history of the account, both dated 
2 February. One says that Mr B phoned Lloyds and was told in that call that he would have 
to visit the branch to have the account unblocked. The other says that the call was cut off 
before the call handler could tell Mr B that. I cannot rule out the possibility that these records 
may actually describe two phone calls made on the same day. But it is possible that they 
describe the same call, and that Mr B may not have been told what he had to do. 
Nevertheless, I think if the call was cut off then Mr B should have called back (and perhaps 
he did). He would then have been told to visit the branch. So I think that either Mr B was told 
what he had to do, or alternatively he would have been told what to do if he had called back. 
In either case, Mr B was given no reason to think that his account would be unblocked as a 
result of the phone call, or calls, he made on that day.
It is standard industry practice to require a customer to visit a branch to unblock a blocked 
account, for security reasons. I therefore do not criticise Lloyds for requiring Mr B to attend 
the branch, and to retain the block until then.
On 21 February Mr B attended the branch, and the account was unblocked that same day. 
That is entirely reasonable. Mr B appears to recall the sequence of events differently, as his 
complaint appears to be that the account remained blocked after the day of his visit, but 
I hope he will forgive me if I suggest that his memory may have become unreliable, having 
waited a year to complain about it.
(I have noted that the account was blocked again in 2020, but that is outside the scope of 
this complaint and of this decision.)
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman