DRN-2610432
The complaint
Mr Bs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
In summary, the CMC says:
It was agreed by HSBC that Mr B was prepared to take a lower degree of risk with 
his capital, but the asset mix of the funds suggests that it was at least a medium risk 
product. 
Alternatives were merely discounted rather than discussed. 
The 2004 sale was arbitrarily used to increase Mr Bs risk profile from cautious to 
medium in 2005. 
It was merely good luck that Mr B was able to invest for four years without needing to 
make a withdrawal. 
What happened
In November 2004, Mr B was advised to invest £250 a month into a mini ISA invested into 
the Income Fund of Funds, made up of 42% UK bonds, 39% UK equity income, 15% UK 
high yield and 3% in cash. In March 2005, he was advised to invest a further £1,740 lump 
sum into the fund. 
In 2004, it was recorded that Mr B was in his late 50s, married but with no financial 
dependents. He was also working part time  having left his previous full-time job  but had 
no plans to retire anytime soon.
It was also recorded that the reason for the review is that Mr B was looking for an investment 
fund rather than cash because he already had sufficient holdings in cash  £15,000 
comprised of £9,000 in a building society, £3,000 in a mini cash ISA and £3,000 in a bank 
account  and wanted an alternative which has potential for greater growth. It was also 
recorded that he had no financial liabilities and was willing to take a lower risk to achieve his 
objective of capital growth. 
 
The 2005 fact find recorded that:
Mr B had a monthly income of £1,100 and was left with £650 each month after 
expenses.
He had £28,711 in savings.
He was looking to invest at medium risk for capital growth.   
HSBC recently confirmed that Mr B contributed £13,750 in total, but upon surrender in 2009 
he received £11,135.05, making a loss of 20%.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint, in short it said the recommendations were suitable, and 
that Mr B wasnt given any guarantees - so he could get back less than he put in. Alternative 
investments were discussed but Mr B was happy to invest in the ISA. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt it should be upheld. In short, 
she thought the recommendation was, overall, suitable for Mr B. He was still working, albeit 
not in the same job, therefore had capacity to take greater risk and make up for any losses. 
She said that although in 2004, Mr B wanted to invest in a low risk product for capital growth 
this changed to a medium risk for capital growth over a five to ten-year period and he was 
happy with the increased level of risk. In 2005, Mr B was happy to invest a lump sum, and 
continue paying his £250 monthly contributions  he confirmed that this was unaffordable. 
Mr B also made no withdrawals which would suggest that it was affordable for him to save  
for whatever purpose  for the next five to ten years.   
The investigator wasnt satisfied that Mr B was advised to take more risk than he was willing 
to take. The fund factsheet showed the investments were UK investments, so not exposing 
him to overseas investment risk. 
The fund  made up of UK companies only  was equally invested in bonds and equities. It 
was heavily diversified with a share of investment grade bonds, share income and a small 
percentage in cash. Although HSBC held 15% in high yield, this was a relatively low 
percentage, and balanced out against the amount invested in bonds, cash and security 
equity investments. So, Mr B wasnt exposed to more risk than he was willing to take.   
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, it said:
It fails to see how the investigator could describe equity investments as secure. The 
fund descriptions from 2004 shows that almost 40% of the holdings were in UK 
Equities  39.26% as at 30 November 2004  so held a considerable level of risk that 
couldnt be offset by the lower corporate bonds and cash holdings. Although the 
portfolio was to provide the fourth highest yield  there was considerable risk to 
obtain this.  
The product wasnt heavily diversified and held just 12 holdings  albeit in different 
funds. The charges were high, and the fund had no meaningful track record having 
launched 18 months earlier. 
HSBC recorded information to justify the sale of the policy rather than to record the 
true circumstances of Mr B. 
He had retired from his main job as he couldnt physically keep up. Theres no reason 
to think that he could keep up (with his current job) for the next five years. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
60% of the investment wasnt in equities, rather than being 100% invested in equities 
as initially suggested by the CMC. 
Theres no evidence that HSBC recorded information differently to what Mr B had 
said to it.  Its likely that recollections will differ, but she can only go with whats been 
recorded.  
Despite what the CMC says about Mr Bs new job being more like a hobby, HSBC 
can only make recommendations based on the information available.  
The CMC said that it was as a result of the way the information was presented that made it 
look like 100% of the holdings were equity based. It accepts that its more useful to look at 
the assets beyond the sub funds. However, it still stands by its point about the 40% equity 
and the risk within the corporate bonds to achieve the high yield being excessive for Mr B. Also, Mr B hadnt been in his new role long enough to know the physical demands. Theres 
some scope for arguing that timing of the advice wasnt right, and Mr B ought to have been 
given time to work out how long he was likely to stay in the job before investing. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im not persuaded 
that the recommendations to invest £250 a month in 2004, and a lump sum a year later, was 
unsuitable.
The CMC has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope Mr B wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt 
mean Im not considering the pertinent points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr B and HSBC and reach what I think is 
an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance,  despite what the CMC says, Im satisfied that 
Mr B was willing to take a risk with a portion of his income  in order to achieve higher gains 
 and that in the circumstances he was able to commit £250 a month for a period of five to 
ten years. Im mindful that Mr B was married, working, had no financial dependants or any 
financial liabilities and therefore was in a reasonably good position to invest without 
impacting his day to day living. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr B was risk averse  as 
suggested by the CMCs proposed redress bench mark of fixed rate bonds.   
Other than a (relatively) small lumpsum investment in 2005  he invested £1,740 but 
couldve put in up to £3,000 before April 2005  the majority of his money came from his 
monthly contributions, which he maintained for a period four years without making any 
withdrawals. I think it was down to his circumstances that he was able to do this rather than 
by sheer luck as suggested by the CMC. 
Despite what the CMC says, I dont think the adviser couldve foreseen at the point of sale 
that Mr B might need to withdraw money in four years time to buy a car. In any case, he had 
access to savings that he couldve used instead but chose not to.   
I appreciate what the CMC says about the funds, but only 40% of the holdings were in 
equities  all of which were UK equities which meant that the majority of his investment  the 
remaining 60% - were non-equity based holdings. In the circumstances, I dont think this 
represented more risk than what Mr B was willing to take.  I note the business says that it discussed a whole range of HSBC  investment funds, which 
include funds which are more suited for savers looking for capital growth, but Mr B decided 
on the Income Fund of Funds due to the low/lower risk nature and flexibility that should the 
time arise, when he needed an income this could be easily allowed. On balance, this 
suggests that alternatives were likely to have been discussed and considered rather than 
simply discounted as suggested by the CMC.  
I note the CMCs other point, but whilst the investment might not have been heavily 
diversified  relatively speaking  I note that it was still reasonably diversified, comprised of 
12 holdings in different funds. Although HSBC held 15% of the holdings in high yield, I agree 
with the investigator that this was a (relatively) low percentage, and broadly balanced out 
against the amount invested in bonds, cash and security equity investments. So, Mr B wasnt 
exposed to more risk than he was willing to take. In the circumstances not having a track 
record beyond 18 or so months doesnt make the recommendation unsuitable.  
I appreciate what the CMC says about the higher charges and the impact this could have on 
the investment, I note this was made clear in the point of sale documents. 
I note Mr B left his previous job, but despite what the CMC says he continued working rather 
than retiring altogether, in a role that still required physical participation. There was nothing 
to suggest that he was about to retire from his new role  I note in 2004 he answered that he 
was in good health. In the circumstances I think HSBC wouldve been wrong to ignore this 
and advise him on the basis that he was no longer working or retired. Despite what the CMC 
says, I dont agree that working as a gardener for the local council is like a hobby and 
therefore shouldnt have been discounted when considering the issue of whether or not Mr B 
was able to make up for any losses.  
I also dont think that switching jobs meant that it was a bad time to invest £250 a month, or 
a (relatively) small lump sum, a year after, I note the latter was an option from 2004. I also 
dont think that Mr B couldnt take a risk because he was a first time/inexperienced investor - 
even if the investment period was likely to take him within a few years of his statutory 
retirement age whilst he was still working.  
On the contrary, Mr had worked all his whole life, had a relatively large sum of money in 
savings, and no recorded financial liabilities, therefore I think he could afford to take a risk or 
risk with roughly less than a third of his net monthly disposable income in order to try and 
achieve for capital growth. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that the 
recommendations were unsuitable for Mr B. 
Im mindful of what the CMC says, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that HSBC hasnt 
accurately recorded Mr Bs information. Given that the recommendations were made roughly 
15/16 years ago, its likely that recollections regarding what was (and wasnt) said will vary.  
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the 
evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman