DRN-3187000
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Santander UK Plc wouldnt lend them the extra money they 
needed to buy a new property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out their mortgage with Santander in 2016. In November 2018 they 
applied for a new preferential rate, which was fixed at 1.99% until 2 February 2021. If they 
repaid the mortgage before that date they would incur an early repayment charge (ERC).
They applied to port the mortgage to a new property, and they needed to borrow extra 
money as the new property was worth more than the one they were selling.
Unfortunately, due to a recent default on Mr Hs credit file Santander said it would only be 
willing to lend the same amount as the existing mortgage, it wasnt willing to increase the 
mortgage debt.
As they needed the extra borrowing to complete the purchase Mr and Mrs H arranged a new 
mortgage with a different lender and redeemed their Santander mortgage. Theyre unhappy 
about the costs they incurred, such as a fee to the new lender and that the new mortgage is 
on a higher interest rate. They also originally said theyd incur an ERC, but the sale didnt go 
through until 2 February 2021 and so no ERC was incurred.
Santander didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. It said the application was declined due 
to the credit file information, and it wasnt willing to lend any extra money to Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to us. They said theyd been with Santander for a long 
time and not missed any payments. They feel Santander should have given them the chance 
to prove themselves as longstanding customers, and the defaults werent their fault as they 
missed a few payments when Mrs H was out of work.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that as Mr and Mrs H wanted to 
borrow more money Santander needed to assess that application to decide if it felt it was 
affordable and whether there were any other reasons why it might not be willing to lend the 
money. She said part of that was a credit check which showed Mr H had defaulted on a 
credit agreement he had with another lender, and so Santander wasnt willing to lend extra 
money to Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. They said they were stressed by what happened and had to 
make lots of phone calls to try to get the decision changed. They felt Santander should pay 
them compensation for those calls and the stress. They also thought Santander should 
apologise for the upset caused, and said they werent constantly missing payments.  They 
asked how you are supposed to prove that you make the payment if youre not given the 
chance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Mr and Mrs H feel about this. Thats understandable as they wanted 
to move house and were worried they wouldnt be able to get a mortgage to allow them to do 
so. Im pleased to see that they obtained a mortgage, and the sale of their old house went 
through earlier this year, albeit theyre paying more on the new mortgage than they wanted 
to.
However, I can only uphold this complaint and award compensation if I think Santander has 
done something wrong.
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage with Santander and they wanted to increase it so they could 
buy a new house. There are tight regulations for mortgage lending, and as part of that a 
lender has to be able to demonstrate  if a customer is borrowing more money  that the 
mortgage is affordable. It also will look at the level of risk posed by the application and 
compare that to its lending policy. Some lenders are happy to take on more risky lending 
than others, and thats a decision each individual lender is entitled to make.
Unfortunately Mr and Mrs Hs application didnt pass Santanders credit score due to their 
credit history and so the application didnt meet Santanders lending policy. 
Mr and Mrs H have said Santander should have given them a chance to prove they could 
afford it, but mortgage lending doesnt work like that. Put simply, if Santander had lent 
Mr and Mrs H the extra money they wanted and then they couldnt afford it, then Santander 
could have found itself liable for any losses Mr and Mrs H incurred as it knew it shouldnt 
have lent them the money.
Santander has its lending policy which it applies to mortgage applications like this where a 
customer wants to borrow more money. Mr and Mrs H didnt meet the lending criteria and so 
Santander was entitled to turn down their application. It said it would be willing to lend them 
the same amount or less, and thats all I would have asked it to do.
I understand that Mr and Mrs H found the situation stressful and theyre unhappy with the 
amount of calls they made trying to appeal the decision, and the costs theyve incurred 
obtaining a mortgage elsewhere. But none of that is Santanders fault as it was entitled to 
decline Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage application, and so I cant hold it liable for what flowed 
from that.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman