DRN-3839861
The complaint
Ms F, represented by her daughter, has complained about repair work completed at her 
home by AXA Insurance UK Plcs contractor following a water leak. AXA is Ms Fs home 
insurance provider.
What happened
There was a leak in the kitchen of Ms Fs home in August 2021. AXA accepted a claim and 
began reinstatement work. There were some difficulties and in around January 2022, Ms F 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator considered a complaint. 
Following that the claim resumed and Ms F was concerned about the work that was done. 
Some work to resolve snagging issues was undertaken in March 2022. But Ms F still thought 
that the painting was particularly poor and the tiled floor had been laid poorly  with no 
thought as to pattern, it was uneven and adhesive hadnt been removed. 
AXA felt that it hadnt been clear with Ms F  it was satisfied the tiles had been laid 
satisfactorily, so it hadnt intended to resolve that as a part of the snagging work. But it felt it 
hadnt been clear about that with Ms F. It sent her a cheque for £50. Ms F made a further 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator felt the paintwork had been finished to a poor standard and that adhesive 
had been left on the tiles. He said Ms F should get two quotes to rectify this, with AXA 
paying for the work. He felt it should pay increased compensation, £150 in total. He wasnt 
persuaded the tiles had otherwise been poorly laid regarding either layout or evenness. 
AXA agreed that the kitchen dcor had been finished to a very poor quality. So it agreed it 
needed to be re-done. 
Ms F obtained a quote for redecorating, totalling £2,000 plus VAT. It didnt include a cost for 
cleaning the tiles. Ms F felt the tiles should be taken up and re-laid  she presented detail 
from a tiler who said the floor sloped from one side of the room to the other. She sent further 
photos. Our Investigator sent the detail to AXA. AXA felt the redecoration quote was 
acceptable. It wasnt persuaded by the other detail provided in respect of the tiling. Our 
Investigator told Ms F that he remained of the view that AXA did not need to rectify the tiling 
(except in respect of the adhesive). The complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision.
Ms F said she was finding it difficult to get another quote for paintwork. I noted that AXA had 
agreed that the one quote provided was reasonable. I asked our Investigator to let both 
parties know that I think that AXA should pay that (with no VAT sum added for now), plus 
interest. Then when work is done, Ms F can provide proof of VAT being due and AXA can 
pay that. Also, it should pay £200 for cleaning the tiles  but if Ms F does this and it costs her 
more, she can submit an invoice for it to consider. 
AXA agreed. Ms F said she had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that poor work was done at Ms Fs home, and that this was likely upsetting for 
her. Im pleased that AXA has acknowledged that its contractor didnt complete the 
redecoration work to an acceptable standard. I think paying, in line with the quote submitted, 
so that Ms F can get that re-done (without VAT for now), is the best way to resolve this. And 
because it has been a couple of months since the quote was obtained, adding interest 
should balance out any change in price which may have occurred since. As is the usual 
process, VAT can be reimbursed by AXA once Ms F has incurred the cost. I note Ms F didnt 
get a quote for cleaning the tiles, likely as she thinks the floor should be taken up. But I think 
that could be done for about £200 and whatever Ms F decides to do with the tiling, this 
aspect wasnt completed satisfactorily by AXA and she should reasonably be able to correct 
that aspect of its work if she wants to. 
I think AXA should pay compensation. In March it was going out to fix snagging issues. It 
isnt unusual for jobs like this to involve an element of snagging. However, this came at a 
time when Ms F had already had concerns about the claim in its early stages. And when the 
snagging work was done, Ms F found herself with a very poorly decorated kitchen which 
AXA acknowledges. That has caused her to need to make a further complaint. And I dont 
doubt it was disappointing and upsetting for Ms F to see her kitchen left in this way. AXA 
also acknowledges that it wasnt clear with Ms F that it wasnt going to relay the tiles. I think 
its decision regarding the tiles, as Ill discuss further below, was reasonable. But it should 
have been clear about this. Im satisfied that £150 is fair and reasonable compensation. 
I appreciate that Ms F thinks the tiles have been laid poorly. I know she thinks that better 
care should have been taken to lay the tiles, so the marble patterning flowed. But its my 
understanding, and AXA received similar advice from the tile manufacturer, that this type of 
tile isnt created with that type of patterning in mind. So I cant say that AXAs contractor 
completed poor work in this respect, by laying the tiles as it did. 
I know Ms F thinks the level of the tiling is a concern. Initially she told our Investigator that 
the tiles had been laid unevenly. When she presented detail from a tiler  he suggested the 
floor was sloped  so not level across its whole length. That is slightly different from tiling 
being laid unevenly. As such, the detail from the tiler doesnt convince me the tiling is 
uneven, and the photos Ms F presented arent conclusive in this respect. In terms of the floor 
not being level; the tiler hasnt shown this is the case. Ive seen some photos Ms F has 
presented which show a spirit level on different parts of the floor, where the bubble of the 
level is slightly out of centre  it is still in the centre but slightly to one side. As our 
Investigator said, floor tiling often comes with a certain amount of tolerance and I havent 
seen any expert evidence which shows this floor is sloped beyond anything generally 
deemed as tolerable. And, in saying that, I note that on shots showing things like the bases 
of appliances and skirting boards  there is no visual suggestion of the floor excessively 
sloping, for example the depth of the skirting board doesnt narrow to account for the floor 
being higher at one end.
I appreciate that Ms F feels very strongly that the tiling on the kitchen floor must be lifted and 
re-laid. However, Im not persuaded that, in this respect, AXA completed such poor work that 
this must be done. I realise that the same contractor laid the floor as completed the 
decoration. And I am satisfied that the dcor was poorly completed. But my being satisfied of 
that doesnt mean that, by default, all of that contractors work must be re-done. Im not 
going to make any award in respect of the tiling, other than requiring AXA to pay £200 to 
allow Ms F to have the existing tiles cleaned of adhesive (if she wants to).Putting things right
I require AXA to pay Ms F:
£2,000 for redecorating work, plus interest* from the 10 November 2022 until settlement 
is made.
An amount equivalent to VAT incurred against the above (quote price plus interest), once 
an invoice showing VAT is due is presented.
£200 for cleaning adhesive off tiles.
£150 total compensation, if the cheque previously sent for £50 was cashed, only the 
difference remaining will now need to be paid. 
 
Further, if Ms F does clean the tiles, and that costs her more than the £200 I have allowed 
for here, and she wants AXA to pay more; it should consider her evidence in this respect and 
let her know whether it will pay the difference.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require AXA to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman