DRN-2353025
The complaint
Mr K complains that he was mis-sold a training course he purchased with a loan from TTR 
PT Limited.
What happened
Mr K entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with TTR PT to pay for a training course. He 
started the course in July 2019.
Mr K says he found the course material to be of low quality and he had concerns about the 
lack of tutor support. He complained to TTR PT. TTR PT investigated Mr Ks complaint but 
didnt uphold it. It said the course materials and tutor support were of high quality, evidenced 
by the number of students who successfully passed exams.
Mr K wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He hasnt been making 
payments for several months and wants to end the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think TTR PT had misrepresented 
the course or breached the contract.
Mr K didnt agree. He said the course material wasnt what he was expecting and hadnt 
helped him to learn to code in three months which is what he was led to believe he would 
have been able to do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K entered into a fixed sum loan agreement to pay for a training course. In this case, TTR 
PT is both the lender and the training provider. Under the regulations, Mr K can claim 
against TTR PT if the course was misrepresented to him or if a breach of contract has 
occurred.
Mr K complains about the quality of the course materials and the availability of tutor support. 
Ive considered both of these aspects and in doing so, have had regard to what Mr K has 
said, as well as the information provided by TTR PT including the course prospectus and 
tutor emails.
Misrepresentation
If Mr K was told something that was incorrect, and if he relied on this information when 
deciding whether to enter int the contract with TTR PT, then I would find TTR PT responsible 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mr K enrolled on a course to learn coding/computer programming. The content of the course 
was detailed in the course prospectus which was issued to Mr K. In order to decide whether 
theres been a misrepresentation, Ive looked at the available information about the course 
content to see whether this was what was delivered. From what I can see, the courses on 
the platform were as described in the prospectus.
Mr KK says he was told that he would be able to compete the course in three months and as 
a result he thought hed be able to obtain relevant employment sooner than if he did the 
course elsewhere. I havent seen anything in the prospectus which suggests that the course 
can be completed in three months. The prospectus makes it clear that there is a twelve-
month period to complete the first stage of three courses, which allows around four months 
per course. Based on what Ive seen, Im unable to say that TTR PT made a false statement 
about the length of the course which induced Mr K to enter into the contract.
Quality of learning materials
Mr K has said that he found the learning materials to be of poor quality and that he had to 
access alternative resources online. Ive looked at the prospectus. This says the learning 
materials are delivered in line with industry certifiers. TTR PT doesnt dispute that other 
resources are available but says that its learning materials are sufficient to enable students 
to study for and pass the examination.
Although Mr K has said that he wasnt happy with the course materials, I cant see that he 
raised a complaint about this until around 7 months into the course. If he was unhappy with 
it, I would have expected him to raise a complaint much sooner. Further, Ive looked at Mr 
Ks course progress and I can see that he reached a readiness score of 94%, which 
suggests that the leaning materials provided to him were sufficient to prepare him to take the 
exam.
Based on what Ive seen, Im unable to conclude that TTR PT breached the contract in 
relation to the quality of the learning materials. 
Tutor availability
The course brochure says that Mr K will receive tutor support. I can see that the tutor was in 
contact with Mr K very soon after he entered into the agreement and explained the hours 
that he would be available for support, these being Monday to Friday 9am to 5pm.
Mr K has said that he expected support to be available 24/7. I cant see anything in the 
prospectus which suggested that this would be the case and the tutor has been clear in his 
initial email about his availability. I think that availability is reasonable. Ive reviewed the 
emails between Mr K and his tutor and Im satisfied that support was given to Mr K whenever 
he requested it. Based on what Ive seen, Im unable to say that TTR PT made a false 
statement about tutor support. Im satisfied that there hasnt been a misrepresentation or a 
breach of contract.
I understand that Mr K feels that the course wasnt suited to the direction he wanted his 
career to take. But I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that he was mis-led into 
entering the agreement or that theres been a breach of contract. Therefore, I wont be 
asking TTR PT to do anything.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman