DRN-3043563
The complaint
Miss W complains about the actions of Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank when 
she was tricked into transferring money as a result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In September 2020 Miss W was sadly the victim of a scam. She was tricked, by a scammer, 
into believing she was updating her personal details with a well-known online company. 
Shortly after Miss W received a call (most likely by the same scammer) pretending to be 
from Yorkshire Bank, who requested that she send two transactions, worth £1,000 in total, 
which Miss W did. 
The same day Miss W called Yorkshire Bank as she was suspicious about the call with the 
scammer. Yorkshire Bank told Miss W it would contact the receiving bank to see if it could 
retrieve her money. But the receiving bank said the money was no longer in the scammers 
account. 
Miss W was unhappy her money couldnt be returned and that she had to wait in a queue 
when she called Yorkshire Bank whilst she was speaking to the scammer on another 
telephone line. Yorkshire Bank reviewed her complaint but said it didnt think it did anything 
wrong.  
Miss W remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. She added that 
Yorkshire Bank didnt do enough to stop the transactions or recover her funds and shouldve 
updated her about what steps it was taking to recover the money. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that even if transactions 
were stopped in the past, that didnt persuade him that Yorkshire Bank shouldve done more 
to prevent these transfers to the scammers account, because he didnt think the transfers 
Miss W made were unusual or suspicious. And he was satisfied that Yorkshire Bank did 
what it could to recover the funds when Miss W made it aware of what had happened. 
Miss W disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said that she had previously 
had transactions stopped in the past by Yorkshire Bank. And that she didnt think any 
warnings were in place in the app when she transferred the money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Miss W has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
It is common ground that Miss W authorised the scam payments totalling £1,000. I accept 
that these were authorised payments even though Miss W was the victim of a scam. She 
provided valid instructions through her online banking. So, although it wasnt her intention to 
pay money to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the 
terms of her account, Miss W is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for Yorkshire Bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a 
payment in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Yorkshire Banks first obligation is to follow the instructions that Miss W provides. But if those
instructions are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect Yorkshire 
Bank to intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended transaction before 
processing it. Id also expect Yorkshire Bank to provide suitable warnings about common 
scams to help their customers make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the 
payment. There might also be cases where its appropriate for Yorkshire Bank to refuse to 
follow the instruction if there are good grounds to believe it is being made as a result of a 
fraud or scam. 
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions by Miss W (to transfer £500 twice to 
the scammers) given to Yorkshire Bank (either individually or collectively) were unusual in 
relation to her typical account activity. So, Ive reviewed the account statements for the nine 
months prior to the scam payments being made. I think this gives a sufficient sample size to 
fairly assess the activity. The account typically maintained a healthy balance which ranged 
between around £5,000 and on occasions up to around £9,000. There were direct 
debits/standing orders, transfers and bill payments ranging from £290 to £590, As a result, 
Im not satisfied Miss Ws payments ought to have stood out to Yorkshire Bank as unusual or 
suspicious because she commonly made similar payments. So, I dont think there was any 
reason for Yorkshire Bank to have intervened and to have asked questions of Miss W. 
Here, Yorkshire Bank has said Miss W set up two new payees to make the transfers to the 
scammer. And when doing so she wouldve clicked on a fraud pop up on her banking app to 
say she was happy to proceed. Miss W has said the fraud pop-up wasnt on her banking app 
at the time and has since provided screen shots of the pop-up in her app. 
Yorkshire Bank has provided a screenshot which says the pop up has been on the app since 
July 2019. Having considered this further I believe  on balance  its more likely than not 
the fraud pop-up was on the banking app at the time. I understand that Miss W doesnt 
remember seeing this when she sent the money to the scammer, but Im satisfied the fraud 
pop up was working on the app at the time the transactions were sent to the scammer. But 
irrespective of this, as Ive said above, I dont think Yorkshire Bank ought to have intervened 
in the payments. If I had, Id expect that to have involved more than a generic fraud warning 
within an app. So, whether the warning was displayed or not isnt a key factor in my decision. 
I understand Miss W is unhappy with the amount of time she was on hold and with the way 
Yorkshire Bank dealt with this issue. As a result, she feels Yorkshire Bank couldve done 
more to retrieve her funds here.  
Yorkshire Bank has apologised for the delay Miss W experienced which I think is 
reasonable. And I dont believe Yorkshire Bank acted unreasonably after it was made aware 
of the fraud. Thats because Ive seen evidence Yorkshire Bank attempted to retrieve Miss Ws money in a reasonable timeframe the same day the fraud was reported but no 
funds remained in the scammers account. I accept Miss W had to wait for her call to be 
answered but her transfers were made within a short space of time of each other (four 
minutes) and the reason the scammer kept her on the phone while the transactions were 
made was most likely to check the money had been received in its bank account and then 
withdrawn immediately. 
So, Im not going to ask Yorkshire Bank to do anything further here. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman