DRN-3666270
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined a claim she made under 
her home insurance policy.
Ms B got in touch with Lloyds after she noticed damage to her home following bad weather. 
It sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. Based on the surveyors findings, Lloyds declined 
the claim. It said the damage hadnt been caused by a one off storm event and showed 
signs of pre-existing damage which required maintenance. Ms B didnt think this was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points and my findings:
The policy covers damage caused by storm, which it says means strong winds of at 
least 55mph. It notes a storm can highlight rather than cause damage and damage 
which happens gradually as a result of wear and tear or a lack of maintenance isnt 
covered by the policy. This cover is consistent with most home insurance policies.
Lloyds accepts there were wind speeds of storm strength at the relevant time. But it 
doesnt think these winds caused the damage.
The damage is mainly to the render, which has cracked and come away from the 
house. It appears water has got behind the render and into the cracks, weakening 
the render. Lloyds surveyor didnt think this process would have happened as a 
result of a single storm  they thought it was likely to have happened gradually.
Im persuaded by the surveyors comments. In my experience its unlikely for strong 
winds to damage render, or force it to come away from a house, unless theres some 
kind of existing weakness in the render  such as cracking and water damage. The 
evidence suggests to me that the strong winds merely highlighted and exposed an 
existing problem with the cracked render.
I dont think it would be fair to say the storm caused the damage when the cracking 
existed prior to the storm. And the cracking was likely the result of gradual 
deterioration within the render over time.
I note the comments provided by Ms B from a roofer. They say the damage was the 
result of terrible weather. This doesnt suggest the damage happened suddenly or as 
a result of a single storm. Nor does it challenge the surveyors comments that a 
degree of cracking existed prior to the storm and led to the current problem.
Overall Im satisfied it was fair for Lloyds to decline the claim. Whilst there were storm 
conditions, the evidence doesnt show the strong winds caused the damage.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman