DRN-2602531
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that U K Insurance Limited declined their claim following cancellation 
of their trip. Reference to UKI includes reference to its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F have annual travel insurance as a benefit of a bank account. I understand that
the policy relevant to this complaint began in July 2018.
In March 2019, Mr and Mrs F booked a family trip. The intended departure date was in 
June 2019. Unfortunately, Mr Fs mother became unwell. In February 2019, she received 
in-patient treatment for radiation proctitis, which was the result of radiation treatment she 
received some years earlier in relation to a primary cancer. Mr Fs mother was admitted to 
hospital in May 2019 and in June 2019 she was diagnosed with secondary liver cancer 
and given a terminal diagnosis. In June 2019, Mr and Mrs F cancelled their trip. 
Unfortunately, Mr Fs mother died in July 2019.
Mr and Mrs F made a claim against the policy. UKI declined the claim. It said that the policy 
doesnt cover a claim where a family member has been diagnosed with cancer in the 12 
months before the trip is booked and that the medical certificate from Mr Fs mothers doctor 
showed that was the case. It offered to reassess the claim when the doctor confirms that
Mr and Mrs F were unaware of Mr Fs mothers illness when they booked the trip.
Mr and Mrs F provided UKI with additional information. UKI maintained its position and set 
out the relevant sections of the policy.
During the course of dealing with Mr and Mrs Fs complaint, UKI paid them compensation 
amounting to £300 in relation to two particular instances of its handling of the matter. Those 
payments werent related to its decision to decline the claim.
Mr and Mrs F say that UKI mistakenly proceeded on the basis that Mr Fs mother was 
diagnosed with cancer in the year before they booked their trip, but that wasnt the case: her
secondary liver cancer was only diagnosed in June 2019.
Mr and Mrs F say that the in-patient treatment Mrs Fs mother received in February 2019 
was for radiation proctitis, which shed had for some time and which was the result of 
radiation treatment she received some years earlier in relation to her primary cancer.
Mr and Mrs F were unaware of the February 2019 treatment. They say that, in any event, 
they werent obliged to report Mr Fs mothers treatment to UKI, as she wasnt named in 
the policy.
Mr and Mrs F say that a scan during the in-patient treatment in February 2019 showed 
cause for concern but, due to an administrative error, that was never followed up by the 
hospital. So, at the time they booked the trip neither they nor Mrs Fs mother were aware 
that she had any signs of cancer. They say that Mr Fs mother didnt receive a diagnosis 
relating to secondary cancer until June 2019. They want UKI to review the medical 
evidence accurately and accept their claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think it was fair for UKI 
to rely on the exclusion in the policy. That was because Mr F didnt know that his mother 
had in-patient treatment in February 2019 and, even if he did, there was no reason for 
concern.
So, the investigator didnt think that Mr F should reasonably have foreseen that he may 
have to cancel his holiday and make a claim on the policy. She thought that UKI should deal 
with Mr and Mrs Fs claim.
UKI didnt agree with the investigator. It said that the claim isnt covered under the policy 
as Mr Fs mother was hospitalised in the 12 months before Mr and Mrs F booked their trip. 
It said that whilst Mr F couldnt have realised that his mothers condition was linked to her 
previous cancer, the policy doesnt cover the claim.
There were further exchanges which I wont set out here. The investigator didnt change her
view. UKI asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me.
My provisional decision
On 14 January 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I 
indicated that I didnt think that UKI had treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly in declining their claim, 
but I didnt think it had handled their claim well, which caused them distress and 
inconvenience. I said:
Im very sorry to note the circumstances of this case. Its clear and quite understandable 
that Mr F, in particular, has very strong feelings about this matter. Hes provided detailed 
submissions to support his complaint, which I have read and considered. However, I trust 
that neither he nor Mrs F will take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider 
the central issue, that is, whether UKI acted within the policy terms and conditions and fairly 
in dealing with and declining the claim.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows:
Section A Cancelling Your Trip (before you are due to start your trip) 
What is covered
We will cover you for your:
-unused deposits;
-accommodation and travel costs (including car hire, excursions and activities); and
-unused kennel, cattery, professional pet sitter or car parking charges
that you have paid or legally have to pay if you unavoidably need to cancel your trip for one
of the following reasons:
One of the following people dies, is seriously injured or is seriously ill:
-[]
-a close relative;
What is not covered 
We will not cover
[]
any claim that is a result of a close relative []
having a medical condition that has resulted in in-patient treatment or being 
put on a waiting list for hospital treatment;
being diagnosed with cancer; orbeing given a terminal prognosis;
In the 12 months prior to you becoming an insured person, or the date when you booked
your trip, whichever is the later;
The definition of close relative includes a parent.  
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont think that UKI treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly in declining their claim, so I dont 
propose to direct it to deal with the claim. But I dont think UKI handled Mr and Mrs Fs 
claim well, which caused them distress and inconvenience. So, I intend to uphold              
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint in part but for different reasons and with a different outcome than 
has been set out before. Ill explain why:
When an insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion in the policy it must show that it 
applies in the particular circumstances that led to the claim. I think UKI has done 
that here, albeit in a confusing way, which Ill refer to in more detail below.
For the purposes of considering the exclusion, the relevant period is the 12 
months before Mr and Mrs F booked their trip, so March 2018 to March 2019. In 
that period, Mr Fs mother had a medical condition that resulted in in-patient 
treatment: in February 2019 she received in-patient treatment for radiation 
proctitis. So, the circumstances here come within the exclusion.
The letter from Mr Fs mothers doctor dated 12 August 2019 explains that during 
the February 2019 in-patient admission, liver cancer was discovered. Mr and Mrs F 
have shown that, due to an administrative error by the hospital, that wasnt 
pursued and diagnosed immediately. Mr Fs mother was admitted to hospital in 
May 2019 and in June 2019, she was diagnosed with secondary liver cancer and 
given a terminal diagnosis. I think that Mr and Mrs Fs cancellation of their trip 
flowed from events discovered during the February 2019 in-patient treatment. So, I 
dont think its unfair for UKI to rely on the exclusion and decline Mr and Mrs Fs 
claim.
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct UKI to deal with the claim. 
Thats because the exclusion fairly applies to the circumstances here. The 
exclusion is a common one. In general terms, insurers can decide which risks they 
want to insure. Here, UKI dont want to insure cancellation costs where a family 
member has received in-patient treatment in the 12 months before the trip was 
booked. Given the link between Mr Fs mothers in-patient treatment in         
February 2019 and Mr and Mrs Fs reason for the cancellation, there are no 
grounds on which I could fairly ask UKI to deal with their claim.
I think that theres been considerable confusion in this case that wasnt of
Mr and Mrs Fs making. UKIs initial reason for declining the claim - set out in its 
letter to Mr F of 2 September 2019 - was that Mr Fs mother had been diagnosed 
with cancer in the 12 months before Mr and Mrs F booked their trip. That wasnt 
correct. Mr Fs mothers initial cancer diagnosis was in 2015 and the secondary 
cancer was diagnosed in June 2019. Mrs Fs mother wasnt diagnosed with cancer 
between March 2018 to March 2019. So, UKI wasnt right to decline Mr and Mrs Fs 
claim for that reason.UKI also said that it would reassess the claim when it received a letter from Mr Fs 
mothers doctor showing that Mr and Mrs F were unaware of Mr Fs mothers illness 
when they booked the trip. But the state of Mr and Mrs Fs knowledge about Mr Fs 
mothers illness isnt relevant, as thats not what the policy says. That put
Mr and Mrs F to the trouble of gathering further medical information at an already 
distressing time when it wouldnt alter the outcome of their claim. UKI didnt change 
its position even after Mr and Mrs F provided a letter from Mr Fs mothers doctor 
which addressed what Mr and Mrs F appeared to know about Mr Fs mothers 
illness.
I dont think that foreseeability is a relevant consideration here. The policy doesnt 
say that the exclusion doesnt apply if Mr and Mrs F couldnt foresee the likelihood 
of having to cancel their trip and make a claim. So, it doesnt alter the outcome that
Mr and Mrs F didnt know of the seriousness of Mr Fs mothers condition when 
they booked their trip.
I dont think that UKIs letter to Mr F of 3 October 2019 - which conveyed its review 
of its earlier decision to decline the claim - was helpful. It simply set out the 
relevant policy terms, didnt say which part of the exclusion it relied on and didnt 
say how the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Fs claim related to those terms.
UKI is the expert here and wed expect it to be able to relay accurately and clearly 
the reason for its decision to decline the claim. I dont think it did that, which 
caused Mr and Mrs F distress and inconvenience. I think that fair compensation for 
that is £300 in addition to the £300 UKI has already paid Mr and Mrs F for aspects 
of its handling of the claim. UKIs previous payments related to two distinct errors it 
made and didnt relate to the confusing reasons it gave for declining the claim.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs F but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
propose to direct UKI to deal with their claim, but I do intend to direct it to pay them 
compensation of £300 in relation to its handling of their claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI accepted my provisional decision. Mr F responded to say that he was devastated 
that I hadnt instructed UKI to pay their claim. He said, in summary:
He wasnt aware of any cancer in February 2019.
There were failings at the hospital which led to what happened. 
He wouldnt have been able to do anything differently. 
There was no indication that his mother wasnt in stable health when he booked the 
holiday.
He doesnt know what else he could have provided to support his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I accept that when they booked the trip, Mr and Mrs F werent aware of Mr Fs mothers 
health. That doesnt alter the outcome here. Thats because the exclusion on which UKI 
seeks to rely says that theres no cover for a claim thats a result of a close relative having a 
medical condition thats resulted in in-patient treatment in the 12 months before                   
Mr and Mrs F booked the trip. 
Its not in dispute that Mr Fs mother had in-patient treatment in February 2019. During that 
treatment, liver cancer was discovered but, due to a hospital administrative error, it wasnt 
followed up. I think that Mr and Mrs Fs cancellation of their trip flowed from events during 
the February 2019 in-patient treatment. So, I dont think I can fairly ask UKI to deal with       
Mr and Mrs Fs claim. 
Ive looked at everything again, but I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached 
previously. I appreciate that its very disappointing for Mr and Mrs F. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint in part. I dont direct UKI to deal with their claim, but I do direct UKI to pay            
Mr and Mrs F compensation of £300 in relation to their distress and inconvenience arising 
out of its handling of their claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint in part. U K Insurance Limited 
should put things right as Ive indicated above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman