DRN-3588436
The complaint
Mrs B complains Consumer Compensation Bureau Ltd trading as Claiming Made Simple 
(CMS) are asking her to pay fees for mis-sold PPI claims she said she didnt ask them to
make.
What happened
In March 2020, Mrs B said she thought shed a message from her bank and saw shed
received a payment of around £1,017 into her bank account. She said she later got a call
from CMS asking her to pay their success fee for a mis-sold PPI claim. Mrs B said she didnt
recognise CMS but shed contacted her bank and they confirmed that the payment was for
mis-sold PPI. In March 2020 she paid CMS their fee - £416.94. But in June 2020 CMS sent
her an invoice asking her to pay a further £500.33. Mrs B said she didnt remember signing
any authorisations for CMS to act her, and that the amount shed already paid was too
much. She complained to CMS.
Mrs B said CMS didnt respond to her complaint, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator asked CMS to provide details about Mrs Bs claims with them. CMS sent an
email trail of their communications with Mrs B. He didnt think this was sufficient to show Mrs
B had agreed to them acting as her representative in making any mis-sold PPI claims. He
said CMS should refund the fee Mrs B had paid plus 8% simple interest.
CMS didnt respond so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2022 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to partially uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management
companies, such as CMS, amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected
high volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data
subject request. Any further information such as that provided in a PPI questionnaire could be
used to strengthen the claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So, for some lenders the
submission of a letter of authority (LoA) was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further
information was needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. This is generally referred
to as the claim being auto converted. Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline
wouldnt have been accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for
doing so.
I can see from the email trail that CMS said Mrs B signed a LoA in August 2019 asking them
to act for her in making a mis-sold PPI claim. And that in March 2020 Mrs B was told that
one of the claims with a lender Ill call B was successful. The compensation paid by B
was £1069.08 (before 20% income tax deducted). I can see that CMS asked Mrs B to pay a
fee of £416.94 for the successful claim.
I know Mrs B said she didnt remember agreeing to CMS acting for her, but after discussing
this with B, she paid CMS their fee. And while CMS hasnt provided the LoA to us, I have
seen an LoA dated 21 August 2019 from CMS sent to B on behalf of Mrs B. I have also
seen the letter B sent to Mrs B that confirmed shed been mis-sold PPI and the amount of
compensation shed receive. The letter also said:
I have made my decision after reviewing the information provided by you, the
information provided by Consumer Compensation Bureau Ltd and our internal system
evidence.
So Im persuaded that Mrs B did authorise CMS to act for her in making a mis-sold PPI
claim. And as Mrs B didnt challenge this until after the compensation was awarded, I dont
think shed cancelled the agreement.
The agreement Mrs B would have had with CMS was on a No win No fee basis. This
means CMS charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work
they did. This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free.
Where a claim was successful, CMSs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work
they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. As I think
Mrs Bs claim was submitted by CMS just prior to the August deadline, and the claim was
successful. I think CMS can charge a success fee for this.
The Financial Guidance and Claims Act 2018 required the introduction of a fee cap for mis 
sold PPI claims. The fee cap came into force on 10 July 2018. From this date, claims
management companies couldnt legally charge a success fee of more than 20% plus VAT.
The LoA Ive seen, is dated 21 August 2019, so CMSs authorisation happened after the
introduction of the fee cap. Mrs Bs compensation from B was for £1069.08, so the fee cap
would have limited the fee CMS could charge to £256.58 inclusive of VAT. But I can see that
CMS charged Mrs B £416.94 which equated to a fee of 39% inclusive of VAT. So, while I
think CMS can charge a fee, I dont think they could charge the amount they have.
Mrs B has shown us an invoice sent by CMS in June 2020 asking her to pay £500.33, the
only reference to what this fee is for is not provided. Mrs B said shed been asked to sign
other forms by CMS but she hadnt done so as she was unsure about what she was being
asked to sign. As CMS hasnt provided any details as to what this further fee was for or the 
terms and conditions that Mrs B would have agreed to. And I havent seen any other
evidence of them acting for Mrs B with any other lenders I dont think they can ask Mrs B to
pay anything further to them.
Responses to my provisional decision.
Neither party have asked for any further representations to be considered.My final decision
Im partially upholding this complaint. And ask Consumer Compensation Bureau Ltd 
trading as Claiming Made Simple to:
refund Mrs B the difference between £416.94 and £256.58 (£160.36) plus 8% simple 
interest from date of payment to date of settlement; and
waive the additional fee of £500.33.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman