DRN-3944433
The complaint
Mr O complains about the way in which National Savings and Investments (NSI) has 
handled the administration of his premium bond account. He has been represented in this 
complaint by a family member, so references to his arguments and evidence include those 
made on his behalf.
What happened
Until April 2020, when he turned 16, Mr Os premium bond account was run by his parents. 
The account had online access and, in line with Mr Os instructions, any prizes were added 
to his investment.
NSI has explained that, when an investor turns 16, they become responsible for the 
operation of their account, and the Responsible Parent access is removed. Any existing 
instructions about the operation of the account  for example, about the treatment of prizes  
are also removed. NSI says that Mr O was sent a letter explaining this and setting out what 
Mr O had to do to ensure that he could operate the account.
In June 2020, Mr O won two £25 prizes. They were sent by cheque to a relatives address in 
the UK. This, NSI says, was the address registered on the account, even though Mr O and 
his family had moved to Canada some years earlier. Whilst Mr Os parents were operating 
the account for him, NSI had used their address in Canada, but the UK address remained 
that on the account.
In May 2020 Mr O wrote to NSI to update his details and to register for NSIs online and 
telephone service. He also included a signature for NSIs records. NSI did not accept the 
signature, however, and sent a further request to the UK address. NSI later admitted that 
had been done in error and offered Mr O £50 by way of compensation. When it sent that 
payment by cheque, NSI included a premium bond application form, so that Mr O could 
invest the money if he was unable to pay it into a UK bank account. In the course of our 
investigation, NSI offered a further £50 in compensation, making £100 in total.  
NSI agreed, it says exceptionally, to invest Mr Os two £25 prizes in his existing premium 
bond account, even though its instructions to do so had expired. It amended its records to 
update Mr Os address in September 2020. The account is now active, although Mr O has 
been unable to access it online. NSI says that this is because he has not been able to pass 
security, but that completion of a forgotten security form should resolve that.
Our investigator considered what had happened. Having noted that, during the course of our 
investigation, the account address had been updated, she thought that NSI had nevertheless 
not done enough to compensate Mr O for the inconvenience to which he had been put. She 
recommended that NSI increase the compensation paid to £300 in total.
NSI did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. Mr O noted that matters had still not been resolved, since online access to the account 
had not been set up.
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision. I noted that the account had operated 
as it should have done until Mr O was 16. After that, he had to take over its operation. That 
process had been complicated by the fact that the address registered to the account had not 
been changed to the address in Canada. That was not a problem as long as Mr Os parents 
were operating the account and as long as prizes were paid direct to it  rather than being 
sent by cheque. 
I thought that the process of changing the account operation had taken longer than it might 
usually have done, but that was not the fault of NSI. And, whilst I noted that Mr O had not 
been able to set up online access, I noted too that NSI had indicated it would be possible if 
Mr O submitted a forgotten security form. I did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
Mr O did not accept my provisional. He said (in December 2022) that he still did not have full 
access to the account. The communication in April 2020 had not said that instructions to 
reinvest winnings would need to be confirmed. He pointed to a number of occasions in July 
to September 2020 when NSI had written to the UK address, even though it had instructions 
not to and even though it knew Mr Os address in Canada. He said too that sterling cheques 
had been sent to Canada, even though he does not have a sterling account there or in the 
UK. 
In response, NSI said it could not change the address on the account until it had the 
necessary documents from Mr O. It wrote to him at his address in Canada to start that 
process, but correspondence about his complaint was sent to the UK address until the 
change had been completed. It did accept however that complaint acknowledgement letters 
were sent to the UK address on 2 and 30 September 2020  after the change had been 
made  and that this was a mistake.  
It said too that it had updated Mr Os address in September 2020, and prizes are paid to the 
account. It said that, even if Mr O did not have online access, he was notified of any prizes  
including one quite recently, which it described as substantial.
NSI also explained that it does use its Knowledge Based Authentication system for 
overseas customers. That system uses information about, for example, UK bank accounts to 
identify customers. NSI said that Mr Os password expired before online access had been 
set up, and it referred to its earlier explanations of what Mr O needs to do if he wants to set 
up online access. It said too that its usual practice is to pay compensation to a linked bank 
account (Mr O does not have one) or by warrant sent by post.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I indicated in my provisional decision that I thought the switch from the account being 
operated by Mr Os parents to it being run by him had been complicated by the fact that the 
account address had not been changed. On reflection, I would add that the ending of the 
instruction to reinvest funds and the fact that Mr O was in Canada (so didnt have a UK bank 
account) complicated matters further. That might not have been such a significant issue if Mr 
O had not won two prizes in the time after his sixteenth birthday but before the changes had 
been made. If those prizes had been won a few months earlier or a few months later, they 
would have been paid into the account. That was unfortunate, but the timing was not the 
fault of NSI or of Mr O.   
Mr O says that NSIs initial contact to tell him about the changes to the way the account 
would be operated should have explained that any standing instruction about the investment of prize money would be revoked. I can see his point about that, since in the event it was 
directly relevant to his situation. I dont believe however that the initial contact could cover 
every eventuality. It explained that Mr O would be responsible for the account from his 
sixteenth birthday and what he needed to do to start that process.    
NSI acknowledged that it should not have requested a specimen signature twice. Even if it 
had not done so, however, I think it unlikely that the changes to the account would have 
been made in time for the two £25 prizes won in June 2020 to have been paid directly into 
Mr Os account. I note however that NSI did arrange for that to happen  it says as an 
exception. And, because NSI established that no prizes were allocated to those bond 
numbers before the account was credited, I am satisfied that there was no loss as a result of 
the delay.
I accept NSIs explanation that the account address could not be changed until the 
necessary formalities had been completed. That meant that initial correspondence about the 
complaint was sent to the UK address. NSI acknowledges however that in September 2020 
it sent two letters to the UK address that should have been sent to the address in Canada. 
The same applies to the final response.  
As the investigator noted, however, the Financial Ombudsman Service cannot consider 
complaints about the handling of complaints  as distinct from complaints about the 
provision of financial services. Where I uphold a complaint about a financial service, 
however, I can make an award to recognise any distress suffered or inconvenience caused. 
That can include distress and inconvenience resulting from the handling of the complaint. 
NSI agreed to pay £50 by way of compensation, but said that it could only do so by paying it 
in sterling to a nominated account or by warrant. Since Mr O does not have a sterling 
account, it suggested he could use a warrant to open a second NSI account. Otherwise, he 
would have to pay conversion fees in Canada. That is, I think, unhelpful; where a financial 
business offers to pay compensation, it should be straightforward for a customer to receive 
it. I take the same view of awards which I might make. I will explain below how I think that 
can be done in this case. 
On reflection, I think that NSI has made errors in this case and that Mr O should receive 
some compensation for that  albeit not as much as the investigator recommended. 
Specifically, NSI should not have asked for the specimen signature more than once, and it 
should have used the correct address for the letters of 2 and 30 September 2020, as well as 
the final response of 15 October 2020. Because Mr O was already concerned about the 
process of changing the address, its errors caused more distress than might otherwise have 
been the case. 
I note what Mr O has said about obtaining online access to the account. In my provisional 
decision I said that NSIs position was that the issue could be resolved if Mr O submitted a 
forgotten security form and that I could review the position if he did that. His response to my 
provisional decision did not however say if he had done that, so I do not believe that I can 
fairly uphold that element of the complaint. My consideration of this complaint wont however 
prevent Mr O from bringing a further complaint about events after this decision, should he 
consider that necessary.    
Putting things right
The errors that have I mentioned above do warrant some compensation. In my view, a sum 
of £100 is appropriate. But it should be paid in a way which does not cause further 
inconvenience to Mr O. My award therefore sets out four different ways in which Mr O can be compensated. It is for him to choose which of those he thinks appropriate  assuming of 
course he accepts my decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr Os complaint. In order to resolve it in full, National Savings 
and Investments should pay Mr O £100. Payment should be made by one of the following 
methods  at Mr Os choosing:
by sterling warrant/cheque;
by transfer in sterling to an account nominated by Mr O;
by warrant/cheque for the Canadian dollar equivalent of £100 at the time of drawing;
by transfer in Canadian dollars of the equivalent of £100 at the date of payment; or
by crediting Mr Os premium bond account. 
Payment should be made within 28 days of Mr Os acceptance of this determination and 
choice of payment method. If it is not made within that time, National Savings and 
Investments should add interest at 8% a year simple from the date of acceptance to the date 
of payment.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman