DRN-3501899
The complaint
Mr A complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited applied an exclusion in relation to his 
sons medical insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in June 2019, Mr A took out medical insurance with AXA for his 
infant son. That policy didnt cover treatment, investigations, assessment or gradings in 
relation to speech delay, amongst other things. 
In May 2021, Mr A contacted AXA about a claim for speech therapy for his son. AXA told 
him that his policy didnt cover speech therapy or developmental delay. Mr A enquired 
about switching to a new policy which covered speech therapy. AXA told Mr A that he 
could use its private GP service. Mr A spoke with the private GP who referred Mr A's son 
to a speech and language therapist for further assessment. 
In June 2021, Mr A contacted AXA and said that he wanted a policy that would cover 
speech therapy. AXA dealt with Mr As application. The new policy for Mr As son started 
on 6 August 2021. AXA excluded benefit for any investigations and treatment related to 
speech and language development and any underlying cause. 
Mr A was aware of the exclusion before the switch was complete but proceeded to 
complete the switch, as he thought the new policy was better for his son. He complained 
about the exclusion. Mr A says that AXA took into account incorrect information. He 
wants AXA to remove the exclusion and to authorise six speech therapy sessions for his 
son.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that AXA had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in excluding benefit for any investigations and treatment 
related to speech and language development. That was because when Mr A applied for 
the new policy, he told AXA that he was concerned about his sons speech, had spoken 
to a friend whos a doctor about this matter and had a referral from a private GP for 
speech therapy. The investigator didnt think that AXA had done anything wrong in telling 
Mr A that he could use its GP service. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He said, in summary:
The first policy he took out for his son had no cover for speech therapy and when 
he first contacted AXA about speech therapy for his son it told him that hed 
need to change policy for that benefit. 
AXA told him how he could get a referral from its GP service then excluded cover 
on the basis that he had a referral. 
He didnt take out the new policy solely for speech therapy cover; it was a better 
policy overall. Whilst he was aware of the exclusion, he told AXA that he would 
appeal the exclusion. 
Its not fair for AXA to apply the exclusion in this case. 
His son qualifies for speech therapy under the new policy. 
Mr A asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
In this decision, Im dealing with Mr As complaint about the exclusion in the policy which 
started in August 2021, as thats what Mr A set out in the complaint form. Mr As earlier 
complaint about the sale of the original policy was dealt with separately by AXA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr A has strong feelings about this matter. Hes 
provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all this carefully 
and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that Mr A wont take as a 
discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think is the central issue in the case, that is, whether 
AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably in applying the exclusion about which he complains.
the relevant exclusion
The exclusion is dispute says: 
No benefit is payable for any investigations and treatment related to Speech and language 
development and any underlying cause. This can be reviewed at your request from Jul-2023 
but such a review would involve the submission of an up-to-date and relevant medical 
report.
has AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably
I dont think that AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably in applying the exclusion Ive set out 
above. I say that because: 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. In 
general terms, an insurer can decide what risks its willing to cover and set these 
out in the documentation. When Mr A switched the policy for his son, he was taking 
out a new policy. So, AXA was entitled to decide what risks it was willing to cover. 
The new policy was issued on a continuation basis, which means that the original 
enrolment date of 6 June 2019 was maintained. But that doesnt mean that AXA 
cant add exclusions in light of the information it had. 
Ive listened to the recording of Mr As phone calls with AXA on 9 July 2021. Mr A 
told AXA that he wanted to switch the policy. He said that he was concerned about 
his sons speech and that a friend who is a doctor had pointed it out to him. He said 
that hed spoken to a private GP who had referred his son for speech therapy. In the circumstances, I dont think that AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
excluding cover for speech therapy. It was entitled to decide that it didnt accept the 
risk of a foreseen event.  
Ive noted what Mr A says about how the referral from the private GP came about. 
Essentially, when Mr A first approached AXA about a claim relating to speech 
therapy, it told him that he could speak to its GP service. I dont think AXA acted 
incorrectly in doing that. Ive listened to the recording of the relevant phone call. 
AXA maintained its position that speech therapy wasnt covered under the original 
policy and it didnt promise to cover speech therapy following a referral. 
The referral by the private GP isnt the only reason AXA applied the exclusion. AXA 
also took into account that Mr A had spoken with a friend who is a doctor who 
pointed out that Mr As son had speech delay. It also no doubt took into account 
that Mr A was concerned about his sons speech. On balance, I think its likely that 
AXA would have excluded cover for speech therapy even if there hadnt been a GP 
referral, as it was clear that Mr A was concerned about his sons speech.  
Mr A has referred to the term of the new policy which says that speech therapy as 
a result of developmental delay is covered as long as the child doesnt have 
speech therapy sessions booked or is on a waiting list for speech therapy when 
cover starts. Mr A is right to say that his son didnt have speech therapy sessions 
booked and wasnt on a waiting list when the new policy started. But that doesnt 
alter the outcome here. Thats because the policy covers eligible treatment which 
falls within the benefit of the plan and isnt excluded from cover. Here, speech 
therapy is excluded from cover, so consideration of the policy term isnt relevant.   
Its clear that Mr A was aware of the exclusion when he took out the policy. It was 
open to him to decline the new policy, but I appreciate that he didnt wish to do so.
Considering everything, theres no basis on which I can fairly direct AXA to remove 
the exclusion. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman