DRN-3458413
Complaint
Mr D has complained about loans Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says he was in financial difficulty and shouldnt have been provided with 
these loans.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr D with a first loan for £1,500.00 in June 2019. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £91.14. In February 2020, Mr D was provided 
with a second loan for £2,010.53. Some of the proceeds from this loan were used to settle 
the amount still outstanding on loan 1. This loan had a 24-month term and had monthly 
repayments of £118.29.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr D and 118 118 Money had told us. And he 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly. So he 
didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint be upheld. 
Mr D disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint 
and issue a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr D complaint. Having 
carefully thought about everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr D could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money provided Mr D with loans for £1,500.00 and £2,010.53 in June 2019 and 
February 2020. These loans were due to be repaid in 24 instalments of £91.14 and £118.29 
respectively. 
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Ds application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr D could to 
comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr D has said 
he was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr D and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that 118 118 Money has provided a record of the results of its 
credit searches. 118 118 Money searches appear to show that Mr D had had previous 
difficulties repaying credit but that his commitments at the time were relatively well 
maintained. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Ds debt total at the time of the 
applications was reasonable in comparison to his income and they appeared to be relatively 
well managed. 
Ive also kept in mind that loan two was for a similar amount. So it wasnt immediately 
obvious that Mr D might have been taking loan 2 because of the effect loan 1 left on his 
finances. And there isnt anything else obvious in either of these applications which lead me 
to think that further checks would have been reasonable and proportionate.
I accept that Mr Ds actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information 118 118 Money obtained. Equally I accept that if 
118 118 Money had gone into the depth of checks Mr D appears to be saying it should have 
 such as obtaining bank statements in the same way a mortgage provider would  it may 
have reached a different answer, although weve not been provided with this information. 
But the key here is that 118 118 Money wasnt providing Mr D with a mortgage. It was 
providing loans for relatively small sums  especially when compared to Mr Ds income. Its 
only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did 
something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I 
dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into the level of 
checks Mr D is suggesting  especially where we havent been provided with anything which 
demonstrates the loans were obviously unaffordable either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr D - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Mr Ds indebtedness, at least to it, didnt appear to be increasing 
unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr D. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman