DRN-3263950
The complaint
 Ms D has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc acted unfairly when it applied overdraft charges 
and interest to her current account. She says the charges and interest were too high and 
that Lloyds did not help her when she asked for assistance with her financial difficulties.
What happened
 Ms D contacted Lloyds in October 2019, she said she was struggling financially and needed 
help with the charges on her account. Lloyds took details of her income and expenditure and 
suggested that as she had no spare funds after her essential expenditure, that it would be 
best for the account to be passed to the banks recoveries department where charges and 
interest could be stopped and an affordable repayment pan agreed. Ms D asked instead for 
some breathing space, and Lloyds ultimately suspended fees on her account for two 
months. But when the charges started to once again be applied Ms D complained to Lloyds 
that it wasnt helping her enough.
Lloyds responded to say that it felt it had acted fairly. Ms D remained unhappy and so 
referred her complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Lloyds hadnt done 
anything wrong. Ms D disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for 
review. 
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 16 December 2021. In that provisional 
decision I set out why I felt Lloyds should refund to Ms D the charges and interest applied to 
her account from January 2020 onwards. Lloyds agreed to make an offer to Ms D in line with 
my provisional decision, but Ms D remains unhappy about the debt continuing to be 
recorded on her credit file so the case has come back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In my provisional decision I said the following:
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued adding interest and associated fees and charges to Ms Ds overdraft from January 
2020. 
This is when Ms D contacted Lloyds to explain her financial difficulties and to ask for help. 
And once a lender is told a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, wed expect it to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Ultimately, 
wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and 
assess the most appropriate way to move forward. 
Lloyds did take steps to properly understand Ms Ds situation, by asking for details of her 
income and expenditure. And it identified at that time that she had no available income after 
her regular payments had been met. Ms D was also given the option of her account being 
referred to Lloyds recoveries team but declined this as she was concerned about the impact 
on her credit file. I think that what Lloyds did at this stage was an appropriate temporary 
measure and so Im satisfied that Lloyds did act fairly and reasonably when Ms D initially got 
in contact to say she was struggling. 
But even though Ms D might have refused longer-term assistance, I dont think it would have 
been fair and reasonable for Lloyds not to have imposed a longer-term solution on Ms Ds 
overdraft had her account conduct indicated continued financial difficulty. And Ms Ds 
statements form when the fee free period expired dont suggest that anything had changed 
particularly  she continued to operate at the limit of her overdraft for most of the month and 
to regularly exceed the limit when charges were applied. And it was clear that any income 
going into the account was almost immediately used up by regular payment. 
So, its difficult to see how Lloyds could think she would be able to now repay this overdraft 
in a reasonable period of time when her situation appeared unchanged. And I think Lloyds 
should have taken proactive steps to ensure that Ms Ds financial situation didnt deteriorate 
further.
As Lloyds didnt react to Ms Ds overdraft usage or act decisively enough in January 2020 
and instead continued applying fees to her overdraft, I think it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards them. 
Ms D ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft at a time when 
they were already experiencing difficulty. So, Im intending to say that Ms D lost out because 
of what Lloyds did wrong and that it should put things right.
I appreciate that Ms D feels that all the charges applied to her account over the years are 
unfair. But the amounts that Lloyds charges are a commercial decision, and so not 
something that I can look at here. And prior to October 2019 I agree with our adjudicator that 
there were not clear enough signs of difficulty on Ms Ds account to prompt Lloyds to take 
action. Im not doubting that Ms D was in difficulty during those earlier years, but her account 
statements show regular credit balances  even if only for a few days at a time  as well as 
some large credits. And its clear form those statements that this wasnt her main account, 
so Lloyds wouldnt have a full picture of her circumstances. All this means that I think the 
transactions alone wouldnt have given Lloyds particular cause for concern, so I think its 
reasonable that it didnt identify Ms D was in difficulties until she told it about her 
circumstances in October 2019.
Lloyds has made an offer in line with my findings above, and I am satisfied that for the 
reasons explained above that offer is fair in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D has said she remains unhappy that her credit file will be affected by the outstanding 
balance of her overdraft. I know that Ms D would like the debt to be removed form her credit 
file but a credit file is intended to be an accurate reflection of a customers financial position, 
so Im satisfied that what Lloyds has offered to do  to backdate Ms Ds credit file so it 
reflects what should have happened  is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
Putting things right Lloyds has made the following offer to put things right for Ms D, and I consider this to be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. Lloyds will:
Rework Ms Ds current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from January 2020 are removed.
AND
As an outstanding balance will remain on the overdraft once these adjustments 
have been made Lloyds will move the account to its recoveries department and 
contact Ms D to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. If Lloyds considers it 
appropriate to record negative information on Ms Ds credit file, it should reflect 
what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking corrective 
action on the overdraft in January 2020. 
My final decision
 I am upholding Ms Ds complaint, and Lloyds Bank Plc should put things right in the way set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman