DRN-3749878
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV 
administered his personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Im not setting it out in 
detail here. Instead, Ive simply set out a brief timeline of the key events. 
In July 2021, Mr F took out a personal CIGNA Global private medical insurance policy, 
following a move abroad. The total price of the policy was €2403.79. Mr F agreed to pay an 
initial payment of €222.59 from a temporary card and then planned to pay the balance by 
bank transfer at a later date.
However, in August and September 2021, CIGNA incorrectly debited the premium balance 
from Mr Fs temporary card, despite him instructing it not to. So Mr F got in touch with 
CIGNA.
Over the next couple of months, Mr F had ongoing communications with members of 
CIGNAs staff. CIGNA indicates that during this time, two separate cases were being worked 
on in relation to Mr Fs policy. One team seems to have been looking into refunding the 
payments which shouldnt have been debited from Mr Fs card, with Mr F settling the 
balance. The other team appears to have been looking into cancelling the policy. 
Unhappy with CIGNAs handling of his policy, on 12 November 2021, Mr F told CIGNA that 
he wished to cancel the policy and receive a full premium refund. CIGNA told Mr F that a full 
refund wasnt possible and that hed receive a pro-rata refund of premium. No resolution was 
reached on this point.
CIGNA cancelled Mr Fs policy in December 2021. But it didnt send him a cancellation letter 
or tell him that the policy had been cancelled.
In January 2022, Mr F contacted CIGNA to make a claim on the policy. At this point, he 
learned his policy had been cancelled and that therefore, he had no policy cover in place. He 
travelled to another country in order to get diagnostic tests done. 
Mr F asked us to look into his complaint. While the complaint was with our service, CIGNA 
and Mr F continued to correspond in order to try and resolve it. CIGNA made offers of 
redress to Mr F. Ultimately, it made the following final offer to put things right:
It would reinstate Mr Fs 2021/22 policy, but it would refund the full premium for that 
policy year;
It would cover the diagnostic testing costs Mr F had incurred; and
It would pay Mr F £1000 compensation.
Broadly, Mr F accepted the terms of CIGNAs offer. However, he also thought that CIGNA 
should offer him free cover for the 2022/23 policy year, to allow him to seek treatment for his 
health issues. He felt that any other insurer would exclude these conditions from any new 
policy it could offer. CIGNA didnt agree to offer Mr F free cover for the 2022/23 policy year 
and maintained the offer Ive outlined above.
Our investigator thought CIGNA had made a fair offer of settlement. He thought that by 
refunding the policy premiums, yet still covering treatment costs, CIGNA had done more 
than he would usually recommend it should do. He thought the offer of compensation 
reflected the upset Mr F had been caused by being unable to seek treatment for his health 
issues from January 2021 onwards. And he didnt think it would be fair to ask CIGNA to 
provide Mr F with a free cover for the 2022/23 policy year. 
Mr F disagreed.  In summary, he said that he hadnt instructed policy cancellation and the 
matter hadnt been resolved. He didnt think the investigators assessment took account of 
the fact that the complaint had taken six months to resolve and that hed suffered health 
issues during that time, which CIGNA knew about. He didnt think that CIGNAs offer took 
account of the impact his health issues had had on him (such as reduced functionality in his 
wrist), or his lost earnings. And he felt that given these health issues, he was limited to using 
CIGNA as an insurer if he wanted to get them treated. Thats because theyd be excluded by 
any other insurer.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, I think CIGNA has made a fair offer to 
settle his complaint and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr F that whilst Ive summarised the background to this complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Within 
this decision though, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
The regulators Principles for Business say that financial businesses must pay due regard to 
the interests of their customers and must treat them fairly. In this case, CIGNA accepts that it 
made errors in its administration of Mr Fs policy. In particular, debiting money from a card it 
wasnt authorised to; running two separate cases to deal with Mr Fs concerns about the 
premium debit and in failing to let Mr F know that it had cancelled his policy in December 
2021, following his email of 12 November 2021. Having looked closely at the email, I can 
see why CIGNAs staff member thought this represented a request to cancel the policy. But 
had the cancellation procedures been followed properly, Mr F wouldve received a 
cancellation notice and wouldve been able to get in touch with CIGNA to potentially 
reinstate the policy or resolve things, if he wished to do so. Instead, Mr F didnt learn that his 
policy had been cancelled until January 2022  at which point he expected to be able to 
claim for health issues he was experiencing.
Where a financial business has made errors, well consider whether those mistakes have 
caused a consumer to lose out and whether they caused the consumer to suffer material 
distress and inconvenience. If so, well tell a financial business what it needs to do to put 
things right.
It seems that Mr F accepted much of CIGNAs offer and that the main remaining issue was 
whether it should offer Mr F free cover for the 2022/23 policy year. So Ill explore this further.CIGNA has offered to reinstate Mr Fs policy for the 2021/22 policy year. And it was covering 
the risk of Mr F making a claim between July 2021 and the point the policy was originally 
cancelled. Strictly then, CIGNA was entitled to require Mr F to pay for at least part his 
insurance policy term. However, its agreed not just to reinstate the policy, but to also refund 
Mr Fs full premium for that policy year. Its also agreed to cover Mr Fs diagnostic testing 
costs of an MRI and an x-ray, despite the fact that effectively, no premiums will have been 
paid for the 2021/22 policy year. Generally, Id take the view that an insurer is entitled to be 
satisfied that a premium has been paid before it agrees to cover a claim. So I find that 
CIGNAs offer here is fair and reasonable and is also likely more than Id have directed it to 
do.
And CIGNA has offered Mr F £1000 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused him. I dont doubt how frustrating it was when CIGNA wrongly 
debited Mr Fs card and following the ongoing correspondence he had with it. I can also 
understand how upsetting it mustve been when Mr F needed to claim on the policy and 
learned that he no longer had any cover. Hes told us too that due to the prolonging of this 
complaint, hes suffered pain and loss of functionality in his hand. So I think its fair and 
appropriate for CIGNA to pay Mr F compensation to reflect this.
I think that £1000 is a fair compensation award. Its a substantial compensatory award and 
Im persuaded it takes into account the trouble and upset CIGNAs handling of Mr Fs policy 
caused him. Mr F has suggested that CIGNAs actions caused him to suffer a loss of 
earnings and may have potentially impacted upon his health issues. But Mr F hasnt 
provided any corroborative, independent, medical evidence which demonstrates that any 
deterioration in his health was caused by CIGNA. So I dont think I could fairly make an 
award for such losses. I find that the £1000 CIGNA has offered, taken together globally with 
its offer to refund Mr Fs premium, reinstate his policy and cover his MRI and x-ray costs, is 
fair in all the circumstances.
It's clear Mr F feels strongly that CIGNA should offer a free policy for the 2022/23 policy year 
and Ive carefully considered this. But I dont think I can fairly direct CIGNA to provide free 
cover. As the investigator explained (and Ive set out above), CIGNA is reasonably entitled to 
payment of a premium in return for it providing insurance cover. Its effectively waived this in 
regard to the 2021/22 policy year, but I dont think it would be reasonable to require it to do 
so for a further year. Even if Mr F did look elsewhere for cover, he would still be charged an 
annual premium before another insurer would pay claims. And had Mr F undergone all of the 
treatment he mightve needed during the 2021/22 policy year at CIGNAs cost, its likely that 
any claims relating to potential follow-up treatment or those health issues going forward 
would be excluded by a new insurer in any event. 
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Fs position, Im satisfied that CIGNA has 
made a fair offer to settle his complaint. If Mr F does accept this decision (and CIGNAs 
offer), hell need to provide CIGNA with evidence of the MRI and x-ray costs he incurred in 
order for it to arrange payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that CIGNA has made a fair offer to 
settle Mr Fs complaint.
If it hasnt already done so, I direct CIGNA Life insurance Company of Europe SA-NV to:
Reinstate Mr Fs 2021/22 policy
Refund the premiums he paid for the 2021/22 policy yearCover the costs of Mr Fs MRI scan and x-ray, subject to Mr F providing it with the 
necessary evidence; and
Pay Mr F £1000 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman