DRN-2623524
The complaint
Mrs Ss complaint is about the handling of a claim under her home emergency insurance
policy with Royal and Sun Alliance (RSA).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in January 2021, the main part of which is 
copied below: 
Mrs S made a claim under her policy on 16 November 2019, as her kitchen sink which was
apparently custom made was leaking.
RSA sent a contractor out shortly afterwards. They said theyd need to order some parts.
The specific parts needed were no longer available and so a universal kit was ordered but 
this apparently didnt fit. RSA says its contractors tried for some time to source the pipes 
needed but they are no longer available. Mrs S had to chase up the claim and asked if 
someone could make the pipes or if RSA would replace the sink. RSA said it couldnt 
replace the pipes as they were now obsolete and the policy doesnt provide cover for 
replacement sinks.
Mrs S was not happy with this and so RSA sent a third contractor on 7 February 2020 who
managed to repair the leak. However, Mrs S is unhappy with his workmanship. She says the
contractor used a mixture of old and new pipes; left sealant over the worktop and sink; the
plug is now rubber, and the sink waste is also inferior to the metal one she had before. Mrs S
also said the sink was still leaking.
After Mrs S complained about this, RSA sent a fourth contractor out. He didnt think there
was still a leak but confirmed the repair had been done using old and new pipes, there was
silicon in the sink and the plug and sink waste were not as they were before. However, RSA
does not agree that it should do anything else. RSA says the policy doesnt cover damage to
sinks and it repaired the leak in the only way it could. It also says that in calls before the final
repair, Mrs S had said she didnt care what the sink looked like underneath, she just wanted
the leak repaired. It did, however, apologise that some of the fittings were not to the same
standards.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. While she thought RSA had tried to source
new pipes and had done what it could in the circumstances, she said the finished work was
not ideal. She thought this should have been made clear to Mrs S before the work was done.
She recommended that RSA pay a total of £150 compensation to reflect this.
RSA accepted the investigators assessment but Mrs S does not. She doesnt think the
compensation is enough and still thinks RSA should replace her sink. Mrs S has made a
number of submissions, which Ive summarised below:
The sink is not damaged, so the exclusion of cover for replacement of damaged
sinks is irrelevant. The pipes are covered, and RSA cant repair those properly unless
it replaces the sink.
The repair work was appalling: the plug and plug hole have been replaced with a
cheap aluminium plug hole and a black plastic plug (instead of the original stainless
steel) which are not fit for purpose (and didnt need to replacing in order to fix the
pipe). They are half the size and pop out when touched; there is a mismatched
screw, which has already gone rusty, and so much extra pipework now that it gurgles
loudly, there is a tap in the cupboard which is hard to reach that she now needs to
turn off and on; and a ridiculous amount of silicone under the sink.
Old second hand pipes have been used, when the policy says it will use only original
new parts.
Her sink is now not fit for purpose. She is unable to use it properly, as the plugs will
not stay in place.
Another engineer came out and inspected the work, he agreed the plug was inferior
and didnt fit properly, that the silicon should have been made tidy, that there were
sealant marks on her sink, worktop and fronts, and didnt understand the mix of old
and new pipework.
She wasted several hours waiting for RSAs contractors to attend her home.
As the investigator was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss policy provides cover for the repair of pipes and drains but not for damage to sinks.
The sink was not damaged in itself but I would agree in principle that if the pipes cant be
repaired properly, then replacement of the sink might be appropriate.
In this case, the leak has apparently been repaired. Although Mrs S said it was continuing,
the fourth contractor said it was not and Ive not seen anything that would suggest Mrs S
thinks it is still leaking after that. She said the water she found under the sink must have
been from when the contractor was working on it. 
So the leak has been repaired. On the face of it, RSA has therefore fulfilled its obligations 
under the policy. However, it is also required to ensure that any such repair is carried out 
within a reasonable time and to a reasonable standard. That is the crux of this complaint, as
Mrs S is not satisfied with the way the work was carried out.
RSA makes much of Mrs S apparently saying she didnt mind if it looked like spaghetti
junction under her sink, as long as the leak was fixed. I do not think this means she should
be expected to accept any standard of work. There is still an obligation to carry out work to a
generally reasonable standard.
The first contractor said the particular waste set for the sink is obsolete, so he tried a
universal waste set but this didnt fit. The notes from a discussion between the first
contractor and RSA says: due to the arrangement under the sink its impossible to fix
without running a complete new set of waste pipes and fitting to both sinks which would be
costly.
That contractor also said he couldnt do the work, as he was a heating specialist. RSA then
instructed the contractor that attended on 7 February 2019. Theres no record on RSAs file
of instructions given by RSA to the new contractor or any agreement about the work
required. So it is not clear if he was instructed to replace all the pipes, as the original
contractor had said was needed. There is a telephone note which says called [plumber]who is attending on Friday and he has ordered the parts hopefully this will solve the issue.
He then reports that he replaced waste fittings with much difficulty due to awkward size of
sink holes. Fitted two new traps and associated pipework. He has not provided any
photographs of his finished work, as far as I am aware.
Mrs S has provided photographs, which show silicon/sealant marks on the work top and in
the sink. The photographs also show a mass of silicon joining the waste to the sink and with
extremely dirty, marked pipework joined to parts of the original pipework.
RSAs contractor has said Mrs S must have smeared the sealant herself, as he left it perfect.
He also told RSA that he does not re-use pipes but they get dirty in his van and he cant help
it if his hands are also dirty when he is fixing them together.
I do not consider this convincing. I have no reason to doubt Mrs S s word about the silicon
and see no reason why she would have done this herself. And, as stated the contractor has
not provided copies of his finished work to show he left it with no silicon marks. Mrs S has
provided photos to support her statements. And having also looked at the photos of the
pipework the contractor fitted, I find it difficult to accept that this was new pipework, which
has just got a bit dirty in his van. It is extremely dirty and discoloured and looks second-hand
in my opinion. In any event, even if the pipes had got dirty in his van or from his hands not
being clean, I do not consider it reasonable to have fitted and left them in that condition, in a
kitchen cupboard.
In addition, the fourth contractor that RSA sent confirmed to it that old and new pipes had
been used. He also confirmed there was silicon on the sink.
RSAs response to Mrs Ss complaint said the contractor had gone over and above to find
some old pipework to repair the leak. He did use old and new pipework however this was the
only possible solution.
This totally contradicts what the contractor himself said (that the pipes were all new) and this
contradiction has not been addressed by RSA. In addition, there is no convincing evidence
that this was the only way of resolving the leak. The first contractor had said that what was
needed was replacing all the waste pipes and did not say this could only be done by using
second-hand pipes. And having sent a fourth contractor out to look at the repair, who
confirmed as alleged by Mrs S that old pipes had been used (despite the contractor that
fitted them denying this) I am not clear how RSA then determined that this was in fact above
and beyond what was required.
Mrs S says the contractor also replaced the sink waste and plug with inferior ones. The
contractor provided receipts for two steel wastes and says these came with a plastic plug.
Its not clear why the sink waste needed to be replaced at all but they are also not equivalent
to the originals and are clearly inferior. I can understand why Mrs S is not satisfied with this.
Taking everything into account, it seems to me the workmanship was not satisfactory and
needs to be put right. RSA tried to tell Mrs S this would need to be by way of a personal
liability claim against the contractor but (while she may have the legal right to make such a
claim) RSA is responsible for the work done, as it was done on its behalf. It is therefore
responsible for putting this right.
I do not know, from the current evidence, if this would mean the sink should be replaced with
new waste pipes, or if the pipes can be replaced but to a better standard. If the pipes can be
replaced to a better standard (even if it is not as neat as it was originally) then this would be
sufficient under the policy. Also Mrs S may decide she would rather her own contractor carry
out any further work. I would invite both parties to provide evidence about this in response tothis provisional decision. For the moment, I am setting out the possible directions I can make
and then following any representations from the parties, will consider the matter further and
make a final decision as to the appropriate course of action.
In addition to the work not being satisfactory, it seems to me that it could have been done a
lot earlier and in fewer visits. I therefore consider that some additional compensation is
warranted. I consider the total sum of £250 to be appropriate, having considered everything,
including the number of appointments required and failure to address Mrs Ss concerns
properly.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc and intend to
require it to do the following:
1. replace the pipework, sink waste and plug to a satisfactory standard, or pay cash in
lieu for Mrs S to arrange the work herself; or
2. replace the sink, or pay cash in lieu; and
3. pay £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of
this matter. (This is to include the £75 already paid.)
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information they 
want considered. 
Mrs S also accepts my provisional decision. She says the pipework left isnt acceptable and 
as RSA has said it was impossible to replace the pipework as it was before, the sink should 
be replaced. And, given the issues she had with RSAs contractor she says she would prefer 
to instruct her own contractor to do the work. 
RSA has responded and confirmed it agrees to the compensation I proposed. It still 
considers the pipework could not be repaired in situ as this boils down to how it was initially 
installed. However, as it has no photographs of the original pipework to evidence this, it  
reluctantly accepts my provisional decision. 
RSA suggested that to prevent further inconvenience to Mrs S, she should have the work 
done to replace the pipework, sink and plug and it would reimburse her.  
This was put to Mrs S but she is not happy to have to arrange and pay for the work herself 
and then wait for reimbursement. RSA has therefore agreed that if she provides two quotes, 
it will consider these and pay for the work in advance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties accept my provisional decision, I see no reason to change my 
findings. RSA has also agreed that the sink should be replaced, along with the pipework and 
to pay for the work in advance (on production of suitable quotes). I think this is reasonable.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc and require it to do the 
following:
1. pay the reasonable cost of replacing the sink, pipework, sink waste and plug; and
3. pay £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of
this matter. (This is to include the £75 already paid.)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman