DRN-3775597
The complaint
Mr P complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (SLAL) took too long to arrange the 
switch of his pension to another provider. He says this led to a financial loss. 
It should be noted that Mr Ps adviser also asked this service to consider his own complaint 
about the time hed spent chasing SLAL on Mr Ps behalf. SLAL told this service that Mr Ps 
adviser hadnt asked them to consider his complaint. Therefore they didnt expect us to 
consider his request as part of our investigation. But they said that Mr Ps adviser could 
make a claim for work of an exceptional nature in accordance with their intermediary terms 
of business agreement if he wanted to. 
What happened
Mr P wanted to switch his personal pension from SLAL to another provider  provider A.
On 5 August 2020, Mr Ps financial adviser asked SLAL to sell his assets to cash and send 
the funds to provider A. But as a property fund couldnt be encashed, they asked for that 
fund to be transferred in-specie. 
Mr Ps financial adviser said that it took until 3 November 2020 for the in-specie fund to be 
transferred to provider A. And that the other funds were sold to cash on 14 October 2020, 
but were not moved to provider A until 4 December 2020.
Mr P complained to SLAL through his financial adviser in January 2021. He felt hed 
experienced very poor customer service. And that the transfer had taken too long, causing 
him to be out of the market for 51 days. His adviser also complained that hed spent more 
time than usual to get the transfer to complete. So he felt he should be reimbursed for the 
additional time he felt that had taken.
SLAL issued their final response to the complaint on 16 March 2021. They said they aimed 
to process instructions as soon as possible. But that theyd experienced higher than usual 
work volumes which meant theyd not been able to work as quickly as they wouldve liked. 
They offered £250 compensation for the service theyd provided in relation to the transfer 
request. And said that they always worked on instructions in the order that they received 
them to ensure that they treated customers fairly. They acknowledged that they couldve 
taken action on the transfer request sooner on more than one occasion. But felt that Mr P 
couldve sold his funds to cash at a later date to help to mitigate any potential financial 
losses from being out of the market. They also said that in-specie transfers could be 
complex and lengthy, and that they took between three to six months to complete. 
SLAL said that they hadnt received the 4 August 2020 letter provider A said theyd sent. And 
that theyd only been able to initiate the transfer after theyd received the scanned email 
instruction. They also said that they always issued cash last, following the completion of re-
registration. And they explained why they did this. They said they couldnt comment on why 
provider A had said that they wouldnt send over re-registration details until they had placed 
the relevant sells on the account for the cash part of the transfer. They acknowledged that 
this had led to Mr P remaining in cash for some time before re-registration had taken place 
and they could complete the transfer in full. And suggested he could ask provider A for an 
explanation. 
Mr P made the following further points to SLAL:
-He felt theyd acknowledged that the service theyd provided was repeatedly outside 
of service levels. 
-He felt that theyd unreasonably denied receiving provider As initial transfer request. 
And that theyd tried to shift blame to provider A. He felt that provider A wanted to 
acquire his funds as quickly as possible. And that the in-specie transfer of a single 
fund couldnt reasonably have led to the catalogue of poor service hed received 
overall.
-He felt that the £250 compensation SLAL had offered was derisory and 
condescending. 
-He didnt feel that SLAL had addressed his complaint that hed been out of the 
market for longer than he shouldve been, and therefore financially disadvantaged. 
And wanted SLAL to put him back to the financial position he shouldve been in had 
the delays not occurred.
SLAL considered Mr Ps further points. They still felt that theyd fairly addressed his 
complaint in their final response. They acknowledged that Mr P felt hed been put out of the 
market by selling down funds. But said that theyd explained in their 10 September 2020 
email to provider A that the property fund was suspended and therefore had to be 
transferred in-specie. And theyd confirmed at this time that they would send any residual 
cash on completion of the re-registration of the property fund. And that there may be a 
period of time where Mr P would be in cash. They said their usual process was to place sells 
on completion of the re-registration to ensure clients werent out of the market longer than 
required. But provider As process that had prevented this.
Unhappy, Mr P brought his complaint to this service in April 2021 through his financial 
adviser.  
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He said he couldnt know exactly 
when the switch shouldve concluded. But he felt that on balance it wouldve concluded 
earlier than it did if SLAL hadnt made a number of errors. He felt there were four periods of 
time when SLAL had delayed the transfer:
1. When SLAL said they hadnt received the initial request from provider A, which he felt 
had been sent to the correct address. He felt this had caused a delay of 10 days. 
2. When SLAL replied to provider As 19 August 2020 email on 10 September 2020 to 
request what they said was outstanding information. He said if he used SLALs stated 
service level of 10 working days, they shouldve replied by 3 September 2020 at the 
latest. So he felt this had caused a further 5 days of delay. 
3. When provider A had asked for a revised valuation on 29 September 2020, which 
SLAL provided 10 working days later. He acknowledged that SLAL said they had a 
10-working day service level. But felt that Mr Ps case shouldve been treated as a 
priority under the circumstances. And that the valuation shouldve been provided 
within 5 working days. He therefore felt that this had caused another 5 days of delay.
4. Once the re-registration had settled on 2 November 2020, the transfer of the cash balance wasnt sent until 4 December 2020. Our investigator felt this shouldve been 
done earlier. And that it wouldve been reasonable for the transfer to have been 
carried out on 11 November 2020 instead of 4 December 2020. He said this caused 
another 17 days of delay. 
If these delays hadnt happened, our investigator felt that the cash wouldve notionally 
transferred on 14 October 2020, rather than 4 December 2020.
To put things right, our investigator felt that SLAL should take the following steps:
-Compare the actual cash amount transferred on 4 December 2020, to the notional 
cash sum which wouldve been transferred on 14 October 2020, plus the investment 
return which couldve been achieved had that amount been invested throughout the 
period using the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. If there is a 
loss as at 4 December 2020, then that amount should be adjusted, according to the 
actual investment returns achieved in Mr Ps personal pension from 5 December 
2020 to the date of settlement. If there is a loss, it should be paid into Mr Ps new 
pension plan. 
-Pay Mr P £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
SLAL didnt fully agree with our investigator. They made the following points:
They felt theyd completed the re-registration in a timely manner from when theyd 
received the acceptance from provider A. But said that the re-registration had 
completed on 2 November 2020, but it had taken them until 4 December 2020 to 
send the cash, despite being chased by several parties in between. They said theyd 
received formal notification of the completion of the re-registration on 3 November 
2020. So assuming that 5 working days was a reasonable time, the cash shouldve 
been sent 10 November 2020, rather than 4 December 2020. They accepted that 
they mayve caused a loss of investment over the 18 working days in this period. And 
said they should ensure that the delay hadnt financially disadvantaged Mr P.
They agreed they should pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused.
They didnt agree that theyd received the request to transfer on 5 August 2020. So 
they didnt agree that the transfer process shouldve started at that point. They said 
that the application hadnt been sent to the correct address, which they felt was 
provider As error. And that they had actually received it on 19 August 2020. 
They felt that provider A had caused a second valuation to be requested and sent. 
but that there was no reason the original valuation theyd sent in September 2020 
couldnt have been used. Therefore they felt that the delay from 10 September 2020 
to 19 October 2020 had been caused by provider A. 
They didnt agree that they shouldve treated the request as a priority due to Mr P 
and his adviser chasing its progress.
Mr P made the following points in response to SLALs comments:
-He didnt agree that it was reasonable for SLAL to say they hadnt received the 
transfer request, as he felt that post would be regularly moved between the address 
used and the correct address. 
-He felt that SLAL were trying to delay the resolution of the complaint.Our investigator considered the new comments from both parties. But it didnt change his 
view. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 27 September 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that SLAL did cause some 
delays. But I dont agree that they caused all the delays he felt theyd caused. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision.
Timeline
Ive set out the timeline of what I consider to be the most relevant correspondence relating to 
the complaint:
4 August 2020 - provider A sent the transfer application to SLAL by post. The application 
included the instruction to re-register the property fund and to send the cash value of the 
other funds to provider A. SLAL said they didnt receive this letter. 
18 August 2020 - Mr Ps adviser contacted SLAL about the transfer. 
19 August 2020  Provider A re-sent the transfer application by email to SLAL. 
24 August 2020 to 3 September 2020: Provider A chased SLAL for progress on the transfer 
application.
9 September 2020: Provider A spoke to SLAL. They were told it may not be possible for 
them to accept email copies of the instruction. 
10 September 2020: SLAL emailed provider A, copying Mr Ps adviser, to say that they still 
didnt have a signed declaration from Mr P to enable the transfer to proceed. They provided 
a valuation for the property fund which was to be re-registered. And confirmed that the cash 
would only be issued to provider A after the re-registration was complete. SLAL said that, for 
the in-specie transfer to go ahead, they would need provider A: to complete a full asset 
acceptability check and confirm that you can accept the assets. I understand that Mr Ps 
adviser forwarded the requested customer declaration later the same day.
16 September 2020: Mr Ps adviser called provider A to tell them that SLAL needed the 
signed provider A declaration to progress the transfer.
17 September 2020: Provider A emailed SLAL to ask them which declaration was required. 
21 September 2020: After a call with provider A, SLAL confirmed by email that theyd 
received the declaration theyd requested on 10 September 2020. They said that they were 
still waiting for confirmation that provider A could accept the property fund. And that they 
also needed the scheme details so that they could process the transfer. 
22, 23 September 2020: Provider As notes show that they were still unclear what SLAL 
needed from them. 
28 September 2020: Mr Ps IFA requested that SLAL placed the sells so that the cash 
transfers could be made. He said: I have explained that provider A will not provide the requested details without the sells being placed which puts us at an impasse if SLAL will not 
place sells without details from provider A. He also noted that he was unable to place the 
sells himself. 
29 September 2020: Provider A emailed SLAL to tell them that Mr Ps adviser had placed 
sales on the account. They asked SLAL to provide an updated valuation so that they could 
send their acceptance. SLAL acknowledged the request the same day.
12 October 2020: SLAL sent the requested valuation to provider A. And apologised for the 
delayed response. 
14 October 2020: SLAL confirmed to provider A that the sale of Mr Ps funds had been 
placed. But I understand that they were still waiting for the re-registration details from 
provider A before they could complete the transfer. SLAL later stated that the valuation 
theyd sent again on 12 October 2020 at provider As request, mirrored the same asset 
allocation as the valuation theyd sent on 10 September 2020. They said that this showed 
there was no need for them to send a second valuation. 
19 October 2020: Provider A sent SLAL details of the new nominee and their acceptance of 
the re-registration.
21 October 2020: SLAL acknowledged the acceptance. 
2 November 2020: The property fund was re-registered to the new nominee.
4 December 2020: SLAL confirmed that the re-registration had taken place and they had 
transferred the cash balance to Nucleus.
I first considered if SLAL caused any delays.
Did SLAL cause any delays?
I agree with our investigator that there were four periods when its possible the transfer 
process couldve gone more quickly. These are:
1. The period between 5 August 2020 to 19 August 2020, when SLAL said they hadnt 
received the initial request from provider A. 
2. The period between 3 September 2020, by when our investigator felt SLAL shouldve 
replied to provider As 19 August 2020 email, and 10 September 2020, when they 
did. 
3. When provider A had asked for a revised valuation on 29 September 2020, which 
SLAL provided 10 working days later. SLAL said they had a 10-working day service 
level. But our investigator felt that Mr Ps case shouldve been treated as a priority 
under the circumstances. And that the valuation shouldve been provided within 5 
working days. He therefore felt that this had caused another 5 days of delay.
4. The period between the re-registration settling on 2 November 2020 and the transfer 
of the cash balance on 4 December 2020. Our investigator felt SLAL were 
responsible for a 17 day of delay here. 
If these delays hadnt happened, our investigator felt that the cash wouldve notionally 
transferred on 14 October 2020, rather than 4 December 2020.I considered whether I felt SLAL should fairly and reasonably be held responsible for each of 
the delays above.
Our investigator felt that the initial request to transfer had been sent to the correct address. 
He said this because the covering letter of 4 August 2020 was sent to an SLAL office.
Mr P said hed expect SLAL to have a process in place to have mail forwarded to the correct 
office. 
SLAL didnt agree that theyd received the request to transfer on 5 August 2020, as our 
investigator had felt. They said that the application had been sent to the wrong address, 
which was provider As error. They said that provider A had a duty of care to ensure that the 
transfer documentation was sent to the correct address. They said that although the office 
the letter had been sent to was an SLAL office, its focus was on a completely different entity 
to SLAL. And that the letter couldnt easily have been passed to the correct office, as it 
wouldve been difficult for the person opening the letter to know who they should send it on 
to. So they felt that even if they had received the request, it was very unlikely that it wouldve 
been quickly passed to the relevant team. They also said that during the time of the request, 
staff were working remotely working. They said that at the time, all of their offices in Scotland 
were closed. So this wouldve seriously hindered any investigation to find the correct team 
for the transfer request to be picked up and progressed. 
SLAL also said that it took provider A until 18 August 2020 to call them to find out if they had 
received the application. And it was at this point that they told provider A the email address 
they shouldve used. They felt that if either provider A, or Mr Ps adviser, had made this 
enquiry before sending the application, they wouldve received the initial request. They also 
said that provider A hadnt provided any evidence that they posted the application on 4 
August 2020. 
From what Ive seen, I dont agree with our investigator that SLAL are responsible for the 
delay caused by the initial request being sent to the wrong address. I consider that, on 
balance of probabilities, SLAL didnt receive it, due to it being sent to the wrong office 
address. I say this because I agree with SLAL that the problem couldve been avoided 
before the application was sent in if the correct address had been confirmed.
Our investigator felt that SLAL were responsible for a 5 working day delay between 3 
September 2020, by when he felt SLAL shouldve replied to provider As 19 August 2020 
email, and 10 September 2020, when they actually did. 
Provider A re-sent Mr Ps application forms on 19 August 2020. And chased SLAL on 28 
August 2020. But SLAL only emailed provider A on 10 September 2020. 
From what Ive seen, this was an important email. And Mr Ps adviser had been chasing 
SLAL for progress on his transfer. So I agree with our investigator that SLAL shouldve taken 
steps to ensure they met their service level of 10 working days here. I acknowledge that 
SLAL were experiencing high volumes of work and their staff were working from home, but I 
agree that they caused a 5-day delay here.
Our investigator also felt that SLAL were responsible for a 5 working day delay after provider 
A had asked for a revised valuation on 29 September 2020. SLAL provided this 10 working 
days later, which met their 10-working day service level. But apologised for the delay in 
responding. Our investigator felt that Mr Ps case shouldve been treated as a priority under 
the circumstances. And therefore felt that the valuation shouldve been provided within 5 
days. SLAL didnt agree. They felt provider A didnt need a second valuation. And that provider A 
couldve provided their acceptance to the assets listed in the valuation statement SLAL had 
sent on 10 September 2020. They said provider A had asked for an updated statement 
because theyd believed Mr Ps adviser had already placed sells to cash, which wouldve 
changed the holdings from the valuation previously sent. SLAL said there was no reason the 
September 2020 valuation couldnt have been used as thered been no sells. So the new 
valuation still detailed the same assets. SLAL felt that provider A was therefore responsible 
for any delay caused by the request for a second valuation.   
SLAL also said that if sells had been required, it wouldnt have been possible to provide the 
new valuation within 5 days. They said they wouldve had to wait until the sells had settled, 
which could take up to 6 working days, before any valuation couldve been issued.
From what Ive seen, I dont agree with our investigator that SLAL are responsible for a delay 
issuing the second valuation. Firstly, I dont consider they did issue it late, as it was issued in 
line with the 10-working day service level. And secondly, I agree with SLAL that there was 
no need for provider A to request a second valuation. Therefore I dont agree that SLAL 
caused a 5-day delay here.
Our investigator felt that SLAL had caused 17 days of delay during the period between the 
re-registration settling on 2 November 2020 and the transfer of the cash balance on 4 
December 2020. 
SLAL agreed that theyd caused a delay here. They said theyd received formal notification 
of the completion of the re-registration on 3 November 2020. And if they assumed that 5 
working days was a reasonable time, the cash shouldve been sent on 10 November 2020, 
rather than 4 December 2020. So they accepted that theyd caused an 18-day delay here. 
I agree with SLAL that they caused an 18-day delay here. 
Taking into account the 5 working day delay Im persuaded SLAL caused between 3 
September 2020 and 10 September 2020, and the 18 working day delay SLAL have 
acknowledged between 10 November 2020 and 4 December 2020, I consider that the cash 
shouldve notionally transferred 23 working days earlier. This is 3 November 2020, rather 
than 4 December 2020.
I next considered whether SLAL shouldve treated Mr P as a priority after the initial issues 
with his transfer. I did this after Id assessed which delays I felt SLAL were responsible for, 
as my decision on this could potentially impact the amount of delay that should be attributed 
to SLAL. 
Should SLAL have treated Mr P as a priority?
Mr P feels that his transfer shouldve been prioritized given how long it had taken. And how 
often he and his adviser had chased SLAL for progress.
Our investigator also felt that SLAL shouldve prioritized Mr Ps case under the 
circumstances. He felt that although Mr Ps case shouldnt have been prioritized because of 
his complaint, it was reasonable to prioritize  as part of the remedy - when errors or delays 
have occurred.
SLAL didnt agree that they shouldve treated Mr Ps request as a priority simply because he 
and his adviser had chased its progress, or because of a complaint. They felt this wasnt 
treating all their customers fairly. From what Ive seen, SLAL caused a 5-day delay when they didnt reply to provider As 19 
August 2020 email within their 10-day service level. And they also caused an 18-day delay 
at the end of the process.
Having carefully considered what each party has said, Im not of the view that SLAL had any 
obligation to prioritize Mr Ps request. I say this because Ive seen no evidence that they 
made an error. And while I acknowledge that they did cause delays during and at the end of 
the process, I consider that the delay they caused near the start of the process was relatively 
short. Therefore I dont consider that SLAL had any obligation to try to process Mr Ps 
request more quickly than those of their other customers.  I also agree with SLAL that Ive 
seen no evidence that if theyd chased the other parties involved in the re-registration 
process it wouldve been completed sooner.
Distress and inconvenience
Mr P said that he had spent time contacting SLAL to chase his transfer and had been highly 
inconvenienced. He felt he should be compensated for this.
SLAL offered Mr P £250 for the inconvenience and upset caused by them failing to meet 
their expected service level of 10 working days. They also apologised for providing Mr P with 
conflicting information. Our investigator felt that SLALs was in line with what hed expect to 
see in these circumstances. 
I agree with our investigator that this level of compensation for distress and inconvenience is 
reasonable for the inconvenience and upset SLAL caused Mr P. 
Responses to my provisional decision
SLAL agreed with my provisional decision. 
Mr P didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. And I uphold the complaint. 
SLAL must compensate Mr P as detailed below.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr P should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if SLAL hadnt delayed the transfer. I understand that Mr Ps new pension 
investments are managed by a discretionary fund manager.
Its not possible to say precisely what Mr P wouldve done had he invested 23 working days 
sooner than he actually did, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must SLAL do?To compensate Mr P fairly, SLAL must:
Compare the actual cash amount transferred on 4 December 2020, to the notional 
cash sum which wouldve been transferred on 3 November 2020, plus the 
investment return which couldve been achieved had that amount been invested 
throughout the period using the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index. This index reflects a broad asset allocation covering equities, fixed income, 
cash, property and other investments. I understand this is broadly in line with Mr Ps 
attitude to risk.
If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable.
If the notional value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
If there is a loss as at 4 December 2020, SLAL should adjust the loss, from 5 
December 2020 to the date of my final decision, based on the actual performance of 
Mr Ps pension plan with provider A. Mr P will need to provide the required 
information to allow SLAL to carry out the loss assessment. 
If there is a loss, SLAL should pay into Mr P's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If SLAL is unable to pay the compensation into Mr P's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr P wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr P's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr P would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr P £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr P's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. Standard Life Assurance Limited 
should pay the compensation detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman