DRN-2861740
The complaint
Mr J complains about delays in Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J had a car insurance policy underwritten by Aviva.
He says his car key was stolen when he was involved in an altercation outside his house. He 
says he was trying to break up a fight.
Mr J was concerned that the person whod stolen the key might return to steal his car, which 
is relatively valuable. So, he made a claim to Aviva to ask them to pay for replacement of his 
cars locks and keys.
Aviva would have wanted to refer Mr J to an approved repairer, but the country was in the 
early stages of the COVID-related lockdown, so that proved difficult to do.
Mr J obtained a quote from a garage which wasnt an Aviva approved repairer. He says it 
took too long for Aviva to agree to the repairs being carried out. He says his claim was 
registered in the first week of March 2020 and Aviva only settled the claim in mid-August.
Mr J says he used a steering wheel lock to secure his car, but this left it vulnerable to theft, 
which caused him five months of stress. 
He made a complaint to Aviva and wanted them to refund his insurance premium, given that 
in his view, he hadnt received the service hed paid for.
Aviva accepted that there were some avoidable delays in their handling of the claim. 
They said it was reasonable to require some further information from Mr Js chosen garage 
about the planned repairs. 
But they accepted that some validation checks they carried out later - because Mr J 
appeared to be staying at a different address to the one given in his policy documents  
might have been done in tandem with their discussions with the garage. And they said this 
would have allowed the claim to be settled sooner towards the end. 
Aviva offered Mr J £250 in compensation for his trouble and upset. He didnt accept this and 
brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Avivas offer was fair and reasonable. Mr J 
disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much of what happened is a consequence of the lockdown which was in place at the time. 
Otherwise, Mr Js car would  or could - have been repaired by an approved repairer, 
presumably in relatively short order. 
I cant reasonably hold Aviva responsible for the difficulties the country was experiencing at 
that time. Put simply, this claim was always going to take more time to resolve because of 
that complication.
Once it was clear that the repairs might take some time if Aviva waited for an approved 
repairer, Mr J quickly got a quote from his own chosen repairer. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to want more information about that quote. It was 
very brief - and it appeared not to take any account of the fact that the keys and locks would 
have to be re-programmed  which can usually only be carried out at a main dealer. Mr Js 
garage werent a main dealer.
I cant see that there were any unreasonable delays - which were Avivas responsibility - in 
that exchange of information between Aviva and Mr Js chosen garage.
I should also here say something about the timeline for this claim. Mr J told us the claim was 
made in early March 2020. Avivas contact records show the claim in fact being made on 
2 April. Mr J says the issue wasnt resolved until mid-August, but Avivas records show the 
settlement being approved on 31 July.
In any case, I can see from Avivas own records that they only raised the issue about Mr Js 
address in early July. The information which made them raise that question - and ask Mr J 
for documents to validate his address etc.  was available to them much earlier.
So, I think they were right to acknowledge that the settlement was delayed by about three 
weeks because they were carrying out validation checks which could have been carried out 
earlier and in tandem with the enquiries about the quote.
In summary, Mr M most likely spent around four months continuing to use his car but using a 
method of locking it which wasnt as secure as it should be. And, in all the circumstances, 
Aviva might reasonably have settled the claim three weeks sooner.
Its important to say, at this point, that Aviva offered Mr J the use of a courtesy car 
throughout this period. Whilst his policy didnt provide for that, Aviva were willing to allow it 
on the basis that Mr J needed a car to carry out voluntary work.
Mr Js car wasnt in fact stolen  or broken into or damaged - during the months he says it 
was without a completely secure lock. And he hasnt raised any issue about the final 
settlement of the claim.
So, the main impact on him of the delays was, he says, stress and anxiety about the security 
of the car  and about the delay in the repairs. 
Aviva didnt offer Mr J a courtesy car of the same make and model as his own (although they 
did upgrade their original offer). But what they were offering to do was to take Mr Js car into 
secure storage until the repairs were carried out. And provide him with a car to get around in.
If Mr J had taken up that offer, he would have suffered none of the stress and anxiety about 
the security of his car which he says he experienced during the four months his claim was being considered.
Putting things right
In my view, the £250 Aviva offered Mr J is fair and reasonable compensation for his trouble 
and upset. Particularly given that it was his choice not to use the courtesy car. And that they 
can only reasonably be said to be responsible for around three weeks delays.
So, Im going to uphold Mr Js complaint, but with no change in outcome. Aviva must pay 
Mr J the £250 they offered but which he has so far not accepted.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay Mr J £250 for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman