DRN-1516517
The complaint
Mr F complains that Black Horse Limited mis-sold him a hire purchase agreement. He says 
he couldnt afford the monthly payments.
What happened
In June 2018, Mr F obtained a caravan on a park using a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse. The monthly repayments were £266.88.
Having spent just a few weeks in the caravan, he decided he wanted to upgrade to a better 
quality caravan. He signed a second hire purchase agreement with monthly payments of 
£321.75. Mr F was happy with the caravan he obtained.
But around three months later, the holiday park representative contacted him to say that a 
mistake had been made with the agreement. The settlement amount from the first 
agreement had wrongly been included as part of the deposit for the second agreement. The 
representative offered to unwind the agreement and Mr F could either:
1. Revert back to the original agreement with the original caravan, which was still available; 
or
2. Sign a new agreement using the correct figures, with the dealer contributing £2,000 
towards the deposit by way of an apology.
After being given time to consider his options, Mr F signed a new agreement  in October 
2018 - for the upgraded caravan with monthly repayments of £507.98.
Around eight months later  in June 2019  Mr F complained to Black Horse that hed been 
pressured into signing the agreement. He said he couldnt afford the repayments. He also 
said hed been encouraged to sign the agreement because the dealer said a new members 
only pool and club house were being built, but this hadnt happened.
Black Horse said Mr F was given time to consider his options and that he hadnt been 
pressured into signing a new agreement. It also said that he was told the new pool and club 
house were subject to planning permission, and that plans werent approved.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
Black Horse had acknowledged an error had been made and had tried to put things right; 
and that Mr F had been given time to make a decision and would have been fully aware of 
the amount he had to pay each month.
Mr F didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
It was a mistake for him to sign the new agreement. But, in the two weeks he was given 
to consider it, he received a lot of pressurised sales talk from the dealer who knew how 
happy he and his wife were in the upgraded caravan.
He and his wife were heartbroken at the prospect of having to go back to their original 
caravan. The dealer suggested they could rent the new caravan out in the summer to 
earn rental income to cover their payments; but they didnt want to do this.
Black Horse didnt check whether he could afford the higher repayments.
Mr F asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. In the meantime, he decided to 
return the caravan and voluntarily terminate the hire purchase agreement which has left him 
with a lump sum to repay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, a mistake was clearly made when Mr F signed the second agreement to 
upgrade his caravan. And I dont underestimate how disappointing it must have been for him 
and his wife to realise they would have to move back into the original, lower spec, caravan 
unless they increased their monthly payments by nearly £200. What I need to decide is 
whether Black Horse acted fairly and reasonably in putting its mistake right. And whether it 
did enough to check that the new lending was affordable for Mr F.
As noted above, when its mistake was realised, the representative offered Mr F two 
alternatives, assuming he wanted to keep a caravan on the site. If he wanted to maintain his 
lower monthly repayments, he could have done that by accepting the original caravan.
He chose instead to sign a new agreement with higher monthly repayments. I find that the 
repayment amount was made clear and Mr F had time to consider this, and whether he 
could afford it, before he signed the paperwork. 
But Black Horse also needed to check if the new lending was affordable for Mr F before it 
provided the finance. There isnt an exact set of checks that I would expect it to have made 
before deciding whether to lend to Mr F. But, it needed to make proportionate checks  
taking into account things like the amount of the finance requested, the monthly repayments 
and what it knew about Mr F and his circumstances.
The finance provided was over £44,000, with monthly repayments of just over £500. I think 
this is quite a large amount of money to lend. And, the borrowing was taken over ten years  
so Im satisfied this represented a significant financial commitment for Mr F. I would expect 
the checks Black Horse did to reflect this. Mr F was responsible for providing accurate 
information about his income and expenses to Black Horse. From the figures he provided, 
and the information he gave about his employment and other financial commitments, I think 
it was reasonable for Black Horse to conclude that he could afford the monthly payments.
Unfortunately, it appears there was a change in Mr Fs circumstances towards the end of 
2019. And it is likely that it was from this point that the monthly hire purchase payments 
became unaffordable. Certainly, he kept up with the repayments until he terminated the 
agreement earlier this year.
So, taking everything into account, I think Black Horse did enough in October 2018 to make 
sure that the new agreement was affordable for Mr F.
I also think Mr F received fair and reasonable compensation for the error  by way of a 
contribution of £2,000 towards the deposit for the new agreement.Ive thought about what Mr F has told us about being pressured into signing the new 
agreement. I think he probably did feel some pressure to sign but, whilst I cant be sure 
exactly what was discussed, Im not persuaded this pressure came from the dealer. More 
likely, it was pressure he and his wife put on themselves. I dont place any blame on them for 
this  Mr F describes how they were heartbroken at the prospect of having to give up their 
caravan and return to their original one. I find that the dealer gave them enough time to 
consider their options before they had to make a decision and it was clear how much the 
monthly repayments would be. Mr F would have been made aware  as all caravan owners 
had  that the park had applied for permission for an owners pool and clubhouse. But I dont 
think this amounted to pressure on Mr F to sign the new agreement  all owners were given 
the same information and it was made clear that the plans were subject to planning 
permission, which unfortunately wasnt granted.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but, for the reasons Ive explained, I cant uphold this complaint.
I cant comment on the voluntary termination process or the amount Black Horse says Mr F 
now owes. If Mr F has a complaint about any of this, he will need to raise it with Black Horse 
in the first instance to give it the opportunity to investigate and respond. What I can do is to 
remind Black Horse of its obligation to treat Mr F positively and sympathetically if he is 
currently experiencing financial difficulties.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman