DRN-3574203
The complaint
Mr M and his representative complain that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW) 
irresponsibly granted them a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In October 2018, Mr M acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
BMW. Mr M was required to make 48 monthly repayments of £200.20, with a final payment 
of £2,990.81 if he wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The total repayable 
under the agreement was £12,600.41. 
Mr M unfortunately got into difficulty with meeting his repayments. After starting his 
complaint Mr M returned the car to the dealer without BMWs agreement. A court judgment 
was obtained against Mr M for the balance due under the agreement, although this has 
since been set aside. 
Mr M says that BMW didnt complete adequate affordability checks. BMW didnt agree. It 
said that it carried out a proper assessment which included carrying out a credit check for 
details of any sums Mr M owed to other creditors. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought BMW didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr M and his representative didnt agree. They said BMW didnt do enough to check if he 
could afford the repayments. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMW will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
BMW says it automatically accepted Mr Ms application based on consideration of his age, 
employment and residential status and taking into account the amount hed needed repay 
each month. I note that Mr Ms representative told our adjudicator that Mr M wasnt working 
at the time. BMW also carried out a credit check that showed some details about Mr Ms 
financial situation. This showed that Mr M owed sums to a number of different creditors. But 
there was no evidence of him having fallen into arrears, having had any of the accounts 
defaulted or being subject to any County Court Judgments. 
I think it would have been proportionate for BMW to have gained a more thorough 
understanding of Mr Ms financial circumstances by checking and verifying his income. 
Without a good understanding of that, I dont think it was possible for BMW to make a fair 
assessment of his ability to afford the repayments without undue difficulty. I say this taking 
into account that Mr M already owed around £1,000 to other creditors and also that he was 
taking on a four-year financial commitment. 
BMW also didnt ask Mr M about his expenditure. Although Ive seen that BMW completed a 
credit check, this wouldnt have indicated what Mr Ms regular living expenses were. Without 
knowing more about Mr Ms regular committed expenditure, BMW wouldnt have got a 
reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. 
I therefore dont think BMW completed proportionate checks. 
I cant be certain what Mr M would have told BMW had it asked about his regular 
expenditure. I dont necessarily think BMW needed to request bank statements at the time it 
approved Mr Ms agreement. But in the absence of anything else, Ive placed significant 
weight on the information contained in Mr Ms statements as an indication of what would 
most likely have been disclosed. Ive reviewed statements for a period of several months 
prior to his being approved for the finance. These show Mr M as having kept his account in 
credit and without having to go into his overdraft. Mr Ms representative has provided us with 
some further detail about the income and various payments he received during this time. I 
also appreciate that Mr M was making payments for rent during this time as he was a tenant 
and not a property owner, as appears to have been represented at the time of the 
agreement. Taking all this into account, however, I do not find that I have enough to show 
that Mr Ms income and committed expenditure at the time meant the agreement should 
have been considered unaffordable. I therefore dont think that that BMW acted unfairly in 
approving the finance application. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman