DRN-2435322
The complaint
Mr K complains that the information registered by Barclays Bank UK PLC with the land 
registry in relation to his buy-to-let mortgage account is incorrect.
What happened
Mr K took out a buy-to-let mortgage with Barclays in January 2020. The mortgage offer, and 
terms, set out details of the borrowing  including there being no obligation on Barclays to 
provide any further borrowing, on top of the agreed mortgage. An application could be made 
at a later date for further borrowing  but this would be subject to underwriting.
A charge was registered, securing the borrowing, by Barclays with the land registry against 
the property, owned by Mr K, which he was letting out. Mr K says the wording of this charge 
indicates Barclays is obliged to provide further borrowing.
Mr K complained to Barclays. He said he accepted that the terms of the mortgage confirm 
that there is no obligation on Barclays to provide further borrowing. But because of that he 
felt the wording recorded with the land registry is incorrect and needs to be amended.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It said the terms of the mortgage do confirm that it is 
not obliged to provide further lending and that is correct. But it said the wording used when 
recording the charge with the land registry was used correctly as it is intended to cover 
situations where further borrowing was granted, on application. 
Mr K asked our service to look into the complaint. An investigator considered matters but 
didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong or that the wording needed to be changed.
Mr K didnt agree. He said hed been advised by a solicitor that the wording was not 
necessary.
The investigator considered the complaint again, but still didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that the decision to use the disputed wording in the charge was a matter of 
Barclays discretion. And in any event, although Mr K was unhappy with the wording, he 
couldnt see that it had caused him any loss.
Mr K remained unhappy with the investigators findings, as a result the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has a buy-to-let with Barclays. That mortgage is secured against a property he owns 
that he lets out. This is confirmed by way of a charge recorded with the land registry. Both 
parties agree on these points and that Barclays has acted correctly by registering a charge 
with the land registry.
Mr Ks mortgage offer, and its terms and conditions, place no obligation on Barclays to 
provide further borrowing, beyond the agreed mortgage. Barclays can provide additional 
borrowing, if it chooses, but will only do so after assessing any application in line with its 
lending criteria in force at the time. And again, both parties accept this.
The dispute comes from the wording used by Barclays in the charge recorded with the land 
registry. Specifically, that it mentions that Barclays is under an obligation to make further 
advances. Mr K says this is misleading and incorrect. Barclays says that this wording is 
used for all of its customers and it is intended to protect it and the position of its charge in the 
event it does provide further advances  ensuring any additional borrowing it grants has 
priority over any other secured lending.
I can understand Mr Ks point of view in respect of this wording, as it does appear to be at 
odds with the other information about his buy-to-let mortgage. But ultimately the wording 
used by Barclays in its documentation and processes is based on its interpretation of the 
relevant legal position and is a matter of its commercial judgement  which I cant 
reasonably interfere with. And the wording used by Barclays in fact appears to be consistent 
with that in pro-forma documents relating to the registration of charges, issued by the land 
registry (form CH1).
Barclays has told our service that this wording is the same for all of its customers. And as 
both parties accept that a mortgage is in place and that it is right that the charge has been 
registered, I cant see that this wording has caused Mr K any form of loss as it does not 
affect how his buy-to-let mortgage is being operated, either by him or Barclays. And Mr K 
doesnt appear to have been treated differently or unfairly when compared to other 
customers. 
So, while I know he feels strongly about this, I dont think Barclays has acted unreasonably 
by following its standard processes when registering this wording with the land registry. And 
I dont think it has acted unfairly by declining to amend this.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman