DRN-3719448
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim made on a group income protection policy 
she has the benefit of.
What happened
Towards the end of January 2020, Mrs C became absent from work and was signed off sick 
by her GP with gastroenteritis up until the end of February - and then with work related 
stress and gastroenteritis until the end of June 2020. Thereafter, with work-related stress.
She had the benefit of a group income protection policy (the policy) through her employer, 
which can pay out a percentage of her salary after shed been off work for 28 weeks (the 
deferred period). She remained off work and claimed on the policy.
Unum declined the claim on the basis that Mrs C hadnt met the policy definition of 
incapacity. It said it wasnt clear what Mrs Cs restrictions and limitations were during the 
deferred period. And further, the medical evidence didnt demonstrate how her function had 
been impaired to such extent that she couldnt perform the insured occupation during that 
time. Unhappy, Mrs C appealed to Unum, and it maintained its position. She then 
complained but, again, Unum stood by its decision to decline the claim. So, she complained 
out service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mrs Cs complaint. She thought 
Unum had unfairly declined the claim based on the available medical evidence and policy 
terms. She recommended Unum to pay the claim from the end of February 2020 and to pay 
simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on the outstanding amounts. Unum didnt agree 
and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has an obligation to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt unreasonably decline a claim. 
The policy and terms and conditions 
The policy terms and conditions say that to claim Mrs C needs to meet the policy definition of 
incapacity. Relevant to this complaint, a member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied, they 
are: 
Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
dues of the insured occupation and are 
Not performing any occupation. 
Insured occupation means the trade, profession or general role that the member was 
actively undertaking for, or at, the employer immediately prior to incapacity. 
Material and substantial duties means the duties that are normally required for the 
performance of the members insured occupation, and which cannot be reasonably omitted 
or modified. It is those duties required for the performance of the occupation at their, or any 
other employer. 
Did Unum unfairly decline the claim?
This is a finely balanced case and Ive considered very carefully everything provided by 
parties. Ive also kept in mind that, ultimately, its for Mrs C to establish her claim under the 
policy.
The crux of the issue for me to decide is whether Unum fairly and reasonably concluded that 
Mrs C didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity during the deferred period and, as such, 
whether it fairly and reasonably declined her claim.  
Its important to add that Im not a medical expert. So, Ive relied on all the evidence 
available to me when considering this issue. And for the reasons set out below, I dont think 
Unum fairly and reasonably concluded that Mrs C didnt meet the policy definition of 
incapacity in the circumstances of this particular complaint.
Mrs C was initially signed off work with gastroenteritis, and then with work related 
stress and gastroenteritis. Theres a suggestion that the symptoms of gastroenteritis 
may have been caused by stress and/or a side effect of the medication she was 
taking. And although gastroenteritis is listed on the GP certificates, signing her off 
sick from work, during most of the deferred period, theres very little mention of the 
symptoms and how theyre affecting her in GP and occupational health reports after 
February. So, I dont think the symptoms of gastroenteritis impacted her ability to do 
the insured occupation throughout the deferred period.
From the end of February 2020  so around a month after Mrs C started her sickness 
absence  the GP certificate also reflects that she was off sick with work-related 
stress and that reason remained on the various GP certificates during the reminder of 
the deferred period. However, looking at the medical records from shortly before the 
start of the deferred period and into the deferred period, theres little mention of the 
reason why work was a factor in the stress she was experiencing, a downturn in her 
low mood and an increase in anxiety. There are references in her medical records in 
February 2020 to her feeling anxious about being chased for test results by her 
employer and that she had a horrible manager. But Im satisfied that there were 
more pertinent issues  unrelated to work  that were causing her mood to be low, 
and feeling anxious, irritable and fatigued. So, overall, Im persuaded that she was off 
work through illness rather than because of stress related to work. 
Unum has said that the medical evidence doesnt show how illness impacted Mrs Cs 
ability to carry out the insured occupation throughout the deferred period. I appreciate 
what it says about this but in the circumstances of this particular complaint, I think 
theres enough to establish that the definition of incapacity has been met. 
Mrs C was signed off work by her GP throughout the deferred period. And Ive seen 
occupational health reports reflecting that she wasnt fit to work. Of course, that 
doesnt automatically mean the policy definition of incapacity is met. However, Mrs C 
had regular appointments with her GP and occupational during the deferred period 
(and beyond). Her GP notes reflect that she appeared teary and anxious on occasions. In the first few months of the deferred period, the GP notes reflect that 
she was not sleeping well, her family were finding her irritable and she was feeling 
fatigued, tearful and low in mood. From May 2020, theres reference to her feeling 
anxious about going out, having days when she doesnt want to get out of bed, 
feeling irritable and upset if something goes wrong and having low mood. 
Towards the start of the deferred period, around March 2020, the dosage of her anti-
depressant medication was also tripled. And although its reflected in April 2020 that 
she felt more motivated looking after her son, in isolation, I dont think that means 
she was well enough to carry out the material and substantial duties of the insured 
occupation at that stage. 
Unum says that Mrs Cs GP notes during the deferred period dont reflect how her 
functionality was impaired. But the GP notes should also be read in conjunction with 
the other medical evidence  including the occupational health reports from the 
deferred period  of which there are many. In May 2020, its reflected that Mrs Cs 
symptoms continued to be at a level that was affecting her day-to-day function in 
terms of looking after herself, the confidence to be out of the house and participating 
in everyday activities at home. And although an occupational health report from the 
month before reflects that the increased does of medication was helping her mental 
health - particularly her sleep pattern - her mood was reported to still be low. And that 
she hadnt yet reached the stage of persistent improvement in her mental health to 
return back to work. 
The occupational health reports from after May 2020 also suggest that her symptoms 
began to worsen rather than improve for reasons relating to the Covid-19 pandemic, 
which triggered Mrs C - causing her mental health to deteriorate further. For 
example, its reflected in July 2020 that her function continued to be significantly 
affected for day-to-day activities at home. This related to low mood and significant 
anxiety for normal daily activities with areas such as her sleep continuing to be 
affected. And it concluded that a number of months is needed to work through the 
new form of therapy alongside changes in medication. 
Im also satisfied from the medical evidence that Mrs C had been referred for a 
psychiatric assessment and to undergo trauma therapy. However, this was delayed 
because of the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mrs C did undergo a psychiatry assessment at the end of May 2020, but the report 
mainly reflects Mrs Cs historical symptoms rather than how her mental health was 
impacting her ability to function, the degree of any impairment. However, the 
psychiatrist did suggest adding a further anti-depressant to the existing medication. 
Im conscious that many of Mrs Cs symptoms during the deferred period are self-
reported. But Im satisfied that her account of her symptoms has been broadly 
consistent over a sustained period, as reflected in her contemporaneous GP records 
and occupational health reports. Shed also seen those medical professionals many 
times during the deferred period. Further, the suggested dosage in anti-depressant 
medication had tripled in March and it had also been suggested that she take a 
further anti-depressant in conjunction with her existing medication in May 2020. I 
think this supports that the medical professionals she spoke with were persuaded 
that Mrs C presented as being unwell, that her functionality had been impaired, and 
she needed further treatment/professional support. So do the onward referrals to 
other medical professionals during the deferred period. 
Ive also considered the opinion of Unums medic at the internal round table discussion in July 2020. Its reflected that they believed there was no substantial 
evidence of clinical diagnosis of anxiety disorder or depressive disorder or PTSD in 
the form of detailed description of symptoms, their persistence, severity, duration and 
the resultant functional impairment. However, under the policy illness means: ill-
health or disease as evidenced by a significant or objectively determined 
deterioration in physical or mental health. So, theres no need for a clinical 
diagnosis. From the medical evidence Ive seen during the deferred period, in 
particular, Im satisfied that Mrs C did have an illness as defined by the policy.
As such, I think Unum shouldve accepted the claim. Although Mrs C was signed off work 
sick with effect of 24 January 2020, for the purposes of this complaint, I consider that she 
was incapacitated as defined by the policy terms with effect of 21 February 2020 as thats 
when stress was first detailed on the GPs certificate and when shes noted to be tearful, 
anxious. So, for the purposes of payment of the monthly benefit, I think thats the date on 
which the deferred period should be calculated from. Unum is free to review the claim going 
forwards.
Putting things right
I direct Unum to accept Mrs Cs claim. It should pay:
- the policyholder (in this case, Mrs Cs employer) the accrued monthly benefit going 
back to the end of the deferred period to date.
- Mrs C simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on each of the backdated monthly 
benefit payments from the date each monthly benefit was due to be made to the date 
on which the lump sum payment for the benefit is made to the policyholder.
If Unum considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from
any interest paid, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give her a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one. That way Mrs C can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct Unum Ltd to put things right as set out above.  Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject 
my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman