DRN-4379293
The complaint
Mr F complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG) declining 
a claim and making deductions under his pet insurance policy for treatment of his dog.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mr F took out a pet insurance policy with CG in December 2022, covering his dog. In 
January 2023 the dog became lame, so Mr F took it to a vet. The vet treated the dog and Mr 
F subsequently submitted a claim form with an invoice from the vet. The claim was for 
£876.10 and the supporting invoice from the vet included a fee of £800 for Investigation  
Lameness (with quantity recorded as 1.00). While there were individual items beneath the 
Investigation  Lameness line, with entries for quantity ranging from 0.38 to 12.00, they 
didnt include values (cost).
CG contacted the vet to ask for a cost breakdown of the lameness fee. The vet responded 
with more information about the fee, saying it was provided as a package of individual 
treatment elements. But CG didnt consider it provided them with the breakdown of cost 
theyd requested. CG said this meant they couldnt fairly assess the cost and so it was 
deducted from the claim. CG contacted the vet again in April 2023 to request a breakdown of 
cost but were provided with the same information sent previously. So, CG maintained their 
position they wouldnt cover the cost.
Mr F was unhappy about CGs decline of her claim, as he thought the vet had provided 
sufficient detail to support his claim. So, he complained to CG.
CG didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said when Mr F took out his 
policy, the terms and conditions provided made it clear each claim under the policy must be 
submitted with an original invoice. CG also said the claim form included a requirement 
(amongst other things) for an itemised invoice or receipt showing all treatment carried out. 
CG referred to the cost of £800 for Investigation  Lameness and that the vet hadnt 
provided them with an itemised breakdown of the cost (despite requesting it twice). 
However, CG said that on this occasion theyd reviewed the fee in line with the standard fees 
they allowed, without an itemised breakdown. Of the net amount claimed (£758  being the 
£800 fee less £42 for a Blood Sample Fee [BSF]) they deducted £100 in respect of fluid 
therapy they said wasnt claimable under the policy (they referred to the policy terms stating 
costs in excess of £100 for fluid treatment for pets under eight years of age unless directly 
related to treatment that was lifesaving). That left a net payment of £658.
Mr F complained to this service before CG issued their final response, saying (at the time) 
CG had unreasonably declined his claim, as his vet had provided a breakdown of the cost of 
treatment. Package treatments were widely used in veterinary practice, and he shouldnt 
have to incur a loss through the way the vet had charged for the treatment. Hed lost out by 
the cost of treatment (£876.10), causing him financial difficulty, particularly given the time of 
year and the wider cost of living pressures. He was also concerned about the risk of not 
being able to claim for any future problems his dog might have with its legs, as this might not 
be covered as an ongoing treatment (or if he changed insurer). He wanted CG to cover the 
cost of treatment (less the policy excess).
Our investigator upheld Mr Fs complaint, concluding CG hadnt acted fairly. He didnt think it 
fair for CG to deduct £30 for BSF and £100 for FT and they hadnt shown how their market 
research had determined £12 was a reasonable cost for BSF and £100 for FT. He thought 
vet fees would vary and nor was it fair to deduct £14.52 for medications as CG hadnt shown 
the charge from the vet was unreasonable. CGs initial decline of the claim and then making 
deductions had caused distress to Mr F. To put things right, the investigator thought CG 
should cover the deductions theyd made and (if Mr F had paid the vet bill) pay interest on 
the amount. CG should also pay £150 to Mr F in compensation for trouble and upset. 
CG disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said theyd agreed to pay the previously deducted costs for BSF (£30) and 
the medications (£14.52). However, they said the vet hadnt provided a fully itemised 
breakdown of the cost of investigation of lameness. While the vet had confirmed part of this 
was the BSF (£42) this left £758 which wasnt itemised. The policy terms and conditions 
required fees to be covered by an invoice and the claim form confirmed the requirement for 
an itemised breakdown, so they wouldnt make any payment for the £758. On the FT cost, 
cover wasnt provided if it wasnt part of lifesaving treatment for pets under eight years of 
age. As Mr Fs dog didnt require lifesaving treatment, they deducted the £100 FT cost.
In my findings, I concluded the policy wording didnt exclude any cover for FT for pets under 
eight years of age (as opposed to costs in excess of £100). I concluded CG hadnt acted in 
line with the specific policy wording. So, they hadnt acted fairly in deducting the £100.
To put things right, I thought CG should reimburse the £100 deduction for FT (in addition to 
the reimbursement of the other deductions they originally made, but had subsequently 
agreed to pay, or had paid) in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
including any limits on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate).
Given my conclusions and the circumstances of the case, I thought £150 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.
Because I reached conclusions for different reasons to those of our investigator, I issued a 
provisional conclusion to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is 
set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether CG have acted fairly towards Mr F. 
CG having decided to accept Mr Fs claim (after having initially declined it because of what 
they said was a lack of detailed, cost breakdown of the lameness investigation fee) the key 
outstanding issue in Mr Fs complaint is CGs deductions from the claim.
Originally, this was for BSF (£30  being the excess over CGs standard fee of £12) and for 
markups on medication over 100% (£14.52). And for FT (£100). Mr F says these have been 
deducted unfairly, leaving him out of pocket. CG say they fairly applied the deductions in line 
with policy terms and conditions.But in response to questions I had about exactly what they have paid (or are willing to pay), 
CG have clarified that of the total invoice amount, theyve paid (or agreed to pay) the 
following items:
£658.00 in respect of the £800 Investigation  Lameness fee. Of the £800, CG 
deducted £42 in respect of BSF and £100 in respect of FT.
£54 being a consultation fee.
£22.10 for medication.
£42 for BSF.
This comes to a total of £776.10  meaning the only deduction from the invoice total of 
£876.10 is for BSF. This being the case, then the issue for me to decide is whether CG have 
fairly deducted £100 for BSF.
Before considering this specific issue, Ive first considered CGs approach in reviewing the 
fee (£800 for investigation  lameness) in line with the standard fees they would allow 
without an itemised breakdown (of cost). As the vet hasnt provided a line-by-line breakdown 
of cost (against the figures for quantity) for the invoice (other than for BSF) I dont think its 
unreasonable for CG to have adopted this approach in the circumstances of the case, given 
the absence of specific, line-by-line costs.
Turning to the specific deduction for FT (£100), Ive first confirmed Mr Fs dog was born in 
2022, so is under eight years of age. And the treatment was for lameness, with no indication 
Ive seen the condition was life threatening. 
CG say the policy terms and conditions exclude cover for this treatment where not life 
threatening and the pet is under eight years of age. In their final response, they refer to the 
following extract from the policy terms and conditions:
Section 1  Veterinary Fees
What is not insured?
Any costs in excess of £100 and/or greater than 24 hours relating to intravenous 
infusion for pets younger than 8 unless directly related to treatment that was life-
saving for your pet and your vet confirms this to us.
However, reading this condition, it doesnt actually say that FT wont be covered if a pet is 
under eight years of age and the treatment isnt life threatening. It refers to any costs in 
excess of £100 (my emphasis) and/or greater than 24 hoursfor pets younger than 8 unless 
directly related to treatment that was life-savingand your vet confirms this to us. I think the 
qualifying phrase in excess of [£100] is key to understanding what the wording means. 
CG themselves also refer (in response to my questions) to This unitemised invoice 
confirmed fluid therapy had been provided; as we will only cover a maximum of £100 for this 
fee, we dedusted £100 for this fee. Which would be consistent with not covering costs in 
excess of £100. As FT treatment is included, applying the standard (maximum) figure of 
£100 would be reasonable. But as the invoice doesnt state an FT treatment cost, I cant see 
theres a basis for deducting £100, while saying we (CG) will only cover a maximum of £100.
And given the policy wording set out above  which I dont think excludes any cover for FT 
for pets under eight years of age (as opposed to costs in excess of £100) Ive concluded CG 
havent acted in line with the specific policy wording. So, they havent acted fairly in 
deducting the £100.To put things right, CG should reimburse the £100 deduction for FT (in addition to the 
reimbursement of the other deductions they originally made, but have now agreed to pay, or 
have paid) in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including any limits 
on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate).
On the assumption CG havent yet paid all the items theyve now agreed to pay (and the 
£100 Ive concluded they should pay for the FT deduction) as out above (and Mr F has 
already paid the vet invoice) CG they should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the 
amounts accepted and paid, from the date Mr F paid the vets invoice, to the date they pay 
the various sums set out above. 
Given these conclusions, Ive considered the impact on Mr F of CG initially declining his 
claim (for the £800 lameness investigation fee) and initially making the deductions. Ive 
thought about what Mr F has told us about the impact of what has happened. Given my 
conclusions and the circumstances of the case, I think £150 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint. I 
intend to require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Reimburse the £100 deduction for FT (in addition to the reimbursement of the other 
deductions they originally made, but have now agreed to pay, or have paid).in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including any limits on the 
costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate).
Pay Mr F £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
On the assumption CG havent yet paid all the items theyve now agreed to pay (and the 
£100 Ive concluded they should pay for the FT deduction) as out above (and Mr F has 
already paid the vet invoice) CG they should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the 
amounts accepted and paid, from the date Mr F paid the vets invoice, to the date they pay 
the various sums set out above. 
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd consider theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr F how much 
theyve taken off. They should also give Mr F a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell them Mr F accepts my final decision. If they pay later than 
this they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Mr F responded to accept the provisional decision. CG didnt respond by the deadline 
requested for responses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG have acted fairly towards Mr F.As Mr F responded to accept the provisional decision, and CG didnt respond by the 
deadline requested for responses, then my final decision remains the same as my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint. I require 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Reimburse the £100 deduction for FT (in addition to the reimbursement of the other 
deductions they originally made, but have now agreed to pay, or have paid).in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including any limits on the 
costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate).
Pay Mr F £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
On the assumption Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd havent yet paid all 
the items theyve now agreed to pay (and the £100 Ive concluded they should pay for the FT 
deduction) as out above (and Mr F has already paid the vet invoice) Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd they should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the 
amounts accepted and paid, from the date Mr F paid the vets invoice, to the date they pay 
the various sums set out above. 
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd consider theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr F how much 
theyve taken off. They should also give Mr F a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell them Mr F accepts my final decision. If they pay later than 
this they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman