DRN-1712682
The complaint
Miss W complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Ltd made a mistake in calculating her 
settlement figure. She says this caused her a lot of difficulty and shed like a full explanation 
and to be adequately compensated for this.
What happened
In June 2019 Miss W took out a conditional sale agreement to purchase a car.  In November 
2019 the car was impounded by the police and, following this, Santander wrote to Miss W to 
say that she was in breach of the terms and conditions and that she would now need to pay 
the costs of recovering the car and any charges and, in addition, itd be sending her a default 
notice regarding the breach. 
On 19 November Miss W called Santander to pay the storage and recovery charges of £535.  
In this call the agent told Miss W that the balance outstanding was £13,969.36 which shed 
need to pay before the car could be released to her. On 2 December Miss W paid a further 
£3,000.
The default notice was sent on 14 December 2019. It said that the agreement would be 
terminated on 4 January and Miss W would need to pay the full balance outstanding, which 
at that time was £10,532.37.
On 18 December Miss W called Santander. In this call she said she understood that the 
balance still outstanding was about £10,000.  Miss W agreed to pay £5,000. The agent told 
her that this left a final balance of £1,997.37. Miss W was given the wrong balance again 
when she called on 27 and 28 December. 
In a further call on 30 December Santander told Miss W that thered been a mistake in the 
figure shed been given on 18 December. It said the agent had deducted the other payments 
Miss W had made although these had already been taken into account before the default 
notice had been issued. It apologised for the mistake but said the balance was still due in 
full. 
Miss W says that she relied on the information provided on 18 December and it caused her a 
lot of problems when she found it wasnt correct.  She feels the compensation offered by 
Santander doesnt properly reflect this.
Santander accepted the figure it gave on 18 December was wrong but it didnt agree it 
needed to reduce the final amount due. It said Miss W had been given the correct figure on 
19 November and taking into account what shed paid since then, it felt she would have 
known the figure of £1,997.37 couldnt be correct. It noted Miss W had known the correct 
figure was in the region of £10,000 when shed called on 18 December. It apologised for the 
mistake and offered Mis W £100 for the inconvenience caused by this as well as agreeing to  
extend the time available for her to make the final payment.
Our investigator agreed thered been a mistake but felt Santander had dealt with it fairly and 
so he wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Miss W disagreed and said Santander had given her the wrong information three times. This 
had had a significant impact on her and her finances that was still continuing. She didnt feel 
£100 was sufficient to reflect this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Miss W was given an incorrect settlement figure on 18, 27 and 28 December and I 
can understand why shes found this so frustrating. However, I consider Santander has dealt 
with this reasonably as Ill now explain.
Miss W contacted Santander on 19 November to pay the recovery and storage charges for 
her car. In this call she was told that the balance outstanding was £13,969.36.
Miss W paid another £3,000 at the beginning of December and when she called on 18 
December, she said she understood the amount still due was in the region of £10,000. This 
was correct as the actual amount was £10,532.37.  
Ive seen the call handler told Miss W that if she paid £5,000 the final balance would be 
£1,997.37. That was clearly a mistake and looking at the figures, it seems the call handler 
had double counted the payments of £3,000 and £535 in calculating this figure. However this 
figure didnt fit with any of the information Miss W had already had so I think it should have 
raised some questions as to whether this was in fact correct.
Unfortunately Santander repeated its mistake on 27 and 28 December. Having said that the 
figures still didnt match what Miss W knew was outstanding and what shed already paid. 
And I can see Santander clarified the mistake on 30 December.
Santander has made a mistake but while Id agree its reasonable for Santander to 
compensate Miss W for this, I cant agree it needs to reduce the amount payable under the 
agreement.  That is a separate issue based on the terms of the agreement signed in June 
2019.
Santander has offered Miss W £100 for the inconvenience caused by whats happened. It 
also extended the payment period by a further 9 days. I know Miss W feels this isnt enough 
and doesnt reflect the impact on her and her finances.
I havent seen any information to show Miss Ws had an actual financial loss so what Im 
looking at is the inconvenience and upset shes had as a result of Santanders mistake. 
Theres no precise way to calculate such awards but Ive taken into account the impact of 
the mistake, and the time it lasted, as well as the information already known to Miss W. 
Having done I consider £100 is reasonable and in line with what Id have awarded for a 
complaint of this type. 
I realise Miss W may be disappointed by this decision but, for the reasons given, I consider 
the compensation already offered is appropriate. I wont therefore be asking Santander to 
pay anything more.
As I understand it the offer of £100 is still open and if Miss W would like to accept Id ask her 
to contact Santander direct.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I consider I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint and consider .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman