DRN-3695119
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
has rejected her claim for the cost of veterinary treatment for her pet dog on the ground that 
the condition treated was connected to previous treatment for which she has exceeded the 
amount payable under her policy.
I have previously issued a provisional decision in this case in which I upheld Miss Hs 
complaint. In response to my provisional decision Red Sands provided additional information 
and Miss H has provided her comments upon it. I will refer to this additional information 
below. 
What happened
The background to this complaint has been summarised by our investigator in two views she 
issued in this case, so I wont recite it here at length.
Briefly stated, Miss Hs pet dog, who Ill refer to as C, had surgery in August 2021. This 
was for treatment of a rupture of his cruciate ligament.  Following what Miss H says was a 
complete recovery, in December 2021 C showed further signs of lameness. In January 2022 
he was diagnosed as having a meniscal tear.
Cs policy with Red Sands is a Lifetime policy which states as follows:
A Lifetime policy is the most comprehensive policy type we offer. These policies will 
look to cover costs incurred from accidents, injuries and conditions, and could cover 
ongoing illnesses over a number of years, as long as you keep renewing your policy.
It has an annual limit for each condition which refreshes upon annual renewal.
Under Policy Limits for Super polices it states:
 - The benefit limit per Condition is £1,000* (With an inner limit of £500* for 
complementary medicine).
As C was treated in August 2021 for the cruciate rupture, any further claims for connected 
treatment would be subject to the £1,000 limit which Miss H had exhausted.
Miss Hs vet confirmed that neither he nor any other persons wouldve been able to say for 
sure if the meniscal tear was a consequence of the cruciate ligament rupture or in fact a new 
and spontaneous event. 
Red Sands said it didnt feel there had been a clear argument to confirm that the conditions 
were not linked. It obtained the view of its consultant, who reported as follows:
These are called late Meniscal tears and are a known complication of Cruciate 
surgery. It is important to differentiate between untreated Meniscal injuries and late 
Meniscal injuries. Late Meniscal injuries are defined as a Meniscal injury that occurs 
subsequent to Cruciate surgery where the Meniscus was correctly determined to be 
normal or where a Meniscal injury was appropriately treated. Late Meniscal injuries are 
a recognised complication of all types of Cruciate surgery with a reported incident 
between 4-22%, depending on the method of Cruciate surgery and on the method of 
stifle joint inspection.
So because late meniscal injuries are a known complication of cruciate surgery, and Cs vet 
had confirmed that he couldnt say if this was a consequence of the surgery, Red Sands 
didnt uphold Miss Hs claim.  
Miss H wasnt satisfied with Red Sands rejection of her claim and brought a complaint to 
this service. Our investigators second view (having considered further information from Cs 
vet) was that the evidence was finely balanced but on the balance of probabilities the two 
conditions were linked, and that it was more likely than not that the meniscal tear was as a 
consequence of the cruciate ligament rupture, rather than a spontaneous event. She didnt 
consider that Red Sands had treated Miss H unfairly by declining her claim.
Miss H wasnt satisfied with our investigators view and has asked that her complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman. It was therefore passed to me to make a final decision from 
this service. 
My initial view differed from that of our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision 
upholding Miss Hs complaint. In response to this I received further information from Red  
Sands and Miss H.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having considered the further information provided in response to my 
provisional decision, Im no longer upholding Miss Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
What I consider to be in issue here is whether the meniscal tear identified in January 2022 
was related to the previous cruciate ligament rupture identified in August 2021. If it was, then 
Miss H wouldnt be able to recover the cost of Cs treatment in January 2022 as shed 
already exhausted the annual allowance for this condition.
Ive reviewed the notes recorded by Cs vet. On 18 October 2021, Cs vet recorded that C 
was using his leg normally following his cruciate ligament surgery. Miss H has confirmed that 
C was back to his normal exercise regime and was out with his dog walker regularly and 
running around without issue.
On 14 December 2021 Cs vet was asked to investigate ongoing lameness LH. The vets 
records go on to say had lateral suture in August '21, walking mostly normally but owner 
concerned that still quite frequent 'skip' when walking.
On 18 January 2022 Cs vet conducted a further procedure, and diagnosed a meniscal tear 
left stifle. The notes went on to say Plan: advised meniscal tear likely accounting for 
ongoing skipping lameness LH since op.
There is no conclusive evidence either way as to whether Cs meniscal tear was sustained 
as a spontaneous event, as Miss H maintains. She says he was back to his normal exercise 
regime so there was certainly the possibility that such an event occurred.Red Sands consultant has said that late meniscal injuries are a recognised complication of 
cruciate surgery with a between a 4% and 22% likelihood of occurring depending on the 
method of cruciate surgery and the method of stifle joint inspection. My initial view was that 
that was not a high likelihood, and one that makes a meniscal injury subsequent to cruciate 
surgery, on the balance of probabilities, less likely to occur rather than more likely. 
In response to my provisional decision, Red Sands provided further information about the 
connection between meniscal tears and cruciate ligament surgery. Having originally stated 
that the likelihood of late meniscal injury occurring following cruciate surgery was between 
4% and 22%, it provided authority for this percentage being considerably higher. This further 
authority states that Meniscal damage occurs in 40  60% of dogs with naturally occurring 
rupture of the cranial cruciate ligament. I consider that this alters the balance of probability 
upon which my provisional decision was based.
Having considered Cs records again, I also take into account that there is some conflict 
between what Miss H says and what the vets records say. On the one hand, Miss H states 
that not long after his first operation C was back to his usual exercise regime, thereby raising 
the possibility that the meniscal tear occurred as a spontaneous event during exercise.
 
On the other hand, the vets records on 14 December 2021 refer to C having ongoing 
lameness LH..walking mostly normally but owner concerned that still quite frequent skip 
when walking. The records for 18 January 2022 state that C had shown ongoing skipping 
lameness LH since op.
Cs vet has provided a further letter in support of Miss Hs claim, but this doesnt provide any 
additional evidence either way. He states: 
I, nor any other person, would be able to say for sure if the meniscal tear was as a 
consequence of cruciate ligament rupture, or a spontaneous event. There is data
in the scientific literature linking these 2 conditions, however it is also very feasible and 
not inconsiderable for a spontaneous unrelated meniscal tear to occur.
Having initially been of the view that the likelihood of a connection between the meniscal 
injury and the cruciate surgery was low, based on the 4% -- 22% likelihood that Red Sands 
initially provided, I am now persuaded that the likelihood was considerably higher  - 40% to 
60%.  C had also displayed skipping lameness for some time  since his original operation, 
according to the vets notes -  which weakens Miss Hs argument that the meniscal tear 
couldve been caused by a subsequent spontaneous event.
Im therefore of the view that Red Sands has not acted unreasonably in rejecting Miss Hs 
claim on the ground that the meniscal surgery in January 2022 was more likely than not to 
be connected to the cruciate surgery in August 2021 and Cs cruciate surgery had exhausted 
the limit of  cover available.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman