DRN-3709672
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money hes lost to a fraudster.
Whats happened?
Mr T has fallen victim to a safe account scam. He says that, on 15 July 2021, he received a 
call from Lloyds fraud team  the incoming call came from the same telephone number as 
the one on the back of his bank card. The caller knew his name and address, and they had 
access to details about his bank account. The caller told him that two fraudulent transactions 
had been attempted on his account. They asked him to login to online banking and, when he 
did, he saw that someone had also moved some money from his savings account to his 
current account. The caller told him that his accounts were at risk and he needed to move 
his money to a safe account to protect it  he would receive a bank card for the new 
account within a few days. 
Mr T says he was talking to the caller for approximately two hours. During that time, he was 
instructed to transfer £5,000 from his current account to his partners account (the 
payment). The caller then got in touch with his partner and instructed her to move the 
money from her bank account to the safe account. They said they would move the 
remaining money in Mr Ts accounts to the safe account, but this never happened. 
Mr T realised later that hed been scammed and reported the matter to Lloyds. Lloyds 
declined to reimburse him on the basis that he hadnt suffered a monetary loss as hed 
transferred his funds to his partners account, and it was her that lost the funds when she 
transferred them from her account to the scammers.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator found that Lloyds should have reimbursed Mr T under the provisions of the 
Lending Standards Boards (LSB) Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). Lloyds 
didnt agree. The bank maintained that Mr T hasnt suffered a monetary loss and it:
said that it wasnt required to intervene with the payment because it followed a credit 
which made it appear likely that it was an intended payment, and it went to a known 
payee, so it wasnt suspicious.
intimated that Mr T didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when he made the 
payment.
Mr Ts complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr T has 
fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
I note that Lloyds has argued Mr T hasnt suffered a monetary loss in this case, but I cant 
agree. The funds that were ultimately lost to the scammer belonged to him  they just 
passed through his partners account on the way to the scammer. Fraudsters use this tactic 
to make it harder for banks to identify a scam risk, and to make it more difficult for banks to 
trace and recover their victims funds. I think that Lloyds, with its industry knowledge of fraud, 
ought to be aware of this. In any event, the LSB has confirmed that the CRM Code includes 
cases, such as this one, where a victim was tricked into sending money to a scammers 
account via a family member or friends account and the funds are now lost. So, Im satisfied 
that Mr Ts complaint falls within the scope of the CRM Code.
Lloyds has acknowledged that it didnt provide Mr T with an effective warning during the 
payment journey. It says it wasnt required to do so. And the banks intimated that Mr T 
made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief that the payee was the person he 
was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the person or 
business he was transacting with was legitimate.
Effective warning
The CRM Code requires a firm, where it identifies an APP scam risk in the payment journey, 
to take reasonable steps to provide the customer with effective warnings. This should 
include appropriate actions for customers to protect themselves from APP scams. The CRM 
Code requires firms to consider payments instructed against normal transactional data and 
customer behaviour. 
I appreciate what the bank has said about the payment going to a known payee. But I dont 
consider the provision of an effective warning to be as onerous as blocking a payment or 
contacting a customer directly, so I think the threshold should typically be lower than I might 
expect a non-CRM Code APP scam trigger to be. Ive looked at Mr Ts account statements 
and I can see that, although the payment went to a known payee, it was the highest value 
transaction on his account by far in the preceding six months  Mr T typically made very low 
value transactions. And it immediately followed a large transfer into the account from Mr Ts 
savings account, which can point to fraudulent activity. So, I think there was enough going 
on here to expect Lloyds to have provided Mr T with an effective warning, despite the 
payment destination. The bank acknowledges that it didnt provide Mr T with an effective 
warning, so Im not persuaded that it can rely on this exception to reimbursement.
Reasonable basis for belief
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr T had a reasonable basis for belief in this case. I acknowledge 
that there were some red flags in the scammers story  for example, its unclear why Mr T 
believed his funds needed to be moved on from his partners account when it was his 
account that was at risk. But Lloyds didnt make the scam risk clear to him. And ultimately, in 
the heat of the moment, when he thought his funds were at risk, he was persuaded that the 
caller was genuine because:
they called from a spoofed number, which matched the number on the back of his 
bank card.
they knew some of his personal details, and details about his account.
he saw that money had been moved from his savings account to his current account, 
which fit with the scammers story.Considering everything, the fraud was sophisticated, and I dont think its unreasonable that 
it went undetected by Mr T, who was convinced that the caller was genuine in all of the 
circumstances.
Conclusions 
To conclude, Lloyds should have reimbursed the money Mr T lost to this scam under the 
terms of the CRM Code. Im satisfied that the payment is covered by the Code, and Im not 
persuaded that any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply. So, the bank should 
now reimburse Mr Ts financial loss and pay interest at the savings account rate (because I 
consider it likely that Mr Ts funds would have remained in the savings account, at least for 
the time being, if he had not been defrauded) from the date it should have reimbursed him 
under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Lloyds Bank PLC to:
reimburse Mr Ts loss within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my 
final decision; plus
pay interest at the savings account rate from the date Mr T should have been 
reimbursed under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman