DRN-4283367
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy that Revolut Ltd is holding her liable for a number of transactions made on 
her account which she says werent made by her, and were the result of a scam.
What happened
Ms T says she was approached by an individual who she believed was helping her obtain a 
£15,000 government grant, and with her finances more widely. In her initial submissions to 
us (sent via a professional representative), she says she had to provide personal details to 
the individual as part of this process, which they used to send money internationally from her 
Revolut account without her knowledge. The payments occurred between October 2021 to 
January 2022.
When Ms T realised it was a scam, she disputed the payments with Revolut. It started the 
process of raising a chargeback claim for the payments she reported  all of which went to 
the same merchant (M). But M was able to show it had provided the expected service by 
transferring the funds in line with the requests it received.
Ms T complained but Revolut didnt agree to refund her. So she referred her complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He couldnt establish how the scammer 
got the details needed to make these payments  which were authorised in the Revolut app 
 and thought it had acted fairly when considering the chargeback claim.
Unhappy with this response, Ms T appealed the investigators findings. She said the account 
activity should have concerned Revolt. And if it had asked her about the payments, it would 
have realised she was being scammed. She also said she had no reason to doubt the 
intentions of the scammer. And maintained that she didnt share any payment information.
The case was passed to me to decide. I asked Ms T for further details about the scam and 
her account activity during this time, which she provided. I then issued my provisional 
decision in July 2023, explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
I asked both parties to provide further comments and evidence. Revolut has confirmed it has 
nothing further to add. Ms T has responded to reiterate that she would like a refund but 
hasnt provided any further comments, aside from confirming that she has read my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Ms T has reiterated that she would like a refund, she hasnt provided any 
further reasons why. Nor has she disputed or commented on any of the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision to explain why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
As I havent received anything new to consider from either Ms T or Revolut, Ive decided not 
to uphold the complaint for the following reasons  which are the same as the reasons I 
gave in my provisional decision. 
Did Ms T authorise these payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), the starting position is that Ms T 
is liable for payments she authorises. The PSRs specify that authorisation depends on 
whether the payment transactions were authenticated correctly  and whether the account 
holder consented to them.
It seems to be agreed that the disputed payment was properly authenticated. This was done 
using Ms Ts card details, but also 3DS security in her app. Whether Ms T also consented to 
them depends on whether she completed the agreed steps to make the payment. Or if 
someone else acted on her behalf (an agent) and used those agreed steps.
Agency can be created not only by the bounds of the actual authority granted by the 
principle. But also by the acts of the agent which appear to have been made with the 
principles authority.
Ms T says she didnt make these payments and didnt share any details to allow someone 
else to do them. In her original submissions, she also said she wasnt aware of the funds 
being sent. But the records she has provided of her contact with the scammer show they 
discussed the payments being made. Yet she didnt dispute them with Revolut at the time.
The records shes provided also show the funds were sent via an account she holds with M. 
I can see she has access to this account, as she has provided records of her contact with M. 
While she provided a screenshot from after the scam showing her disputing the payments 
with M. But then immediately after, in the chat, she told M to leave it as it was a mistake by 
her boyfriend.
I asked Ms T about this interaction. She says her boyfriend didnt make the payments, nor 
did she. But she hasnt explained why she said what she did to M. Ms T also maintained use 
of her Revolut account during this period. And there are instances where she, or someone 
using her account, contacted Revolut about these payments. For example, two payments 
were sent to M on 14 October 2021. Via in-app chat, Ms T says I have sent 57 pounds to 
[M] can I get a refund back. So it appears she told Revolut at the time that she had made 
that payment.
When Revolut asked her for further details, Ms T didnt explain why she wanted a refund for 
that amount. And notably she was requesting a refund of only one of the two payments on 
that date which she is now disputing. She was also able to name the individual who the 
chargeback information shows was the recipient of all the disputed transfers made via M. 
And Ms T has also confirmed this is someone known to her, who is linked to the scammer 
and her ex-boyfriend.
I think Ms T has been tricked in some way. But on balance, I think the payments were either 
made by her, or someone she shared her card details and other security information with. 
While she may not have been aware in advance of some of the payments, I think they would 
still fall under apparent authority  as she was aware, over a period of months, of the 
payments being made. And she took no steps to revoke the authority created for someone 
else to make these payments from her account  such as by ordering a new card, changing 
her PIN or other security details, or reporting the matter to Revolut. And so my starting 
position is that its fair for Revolut to hold Ms T liable for these payments.Is there another reason why Ms T shouldnt be held liable for the payments?
As explained above, customers are generally liable for authorised payments. But there are 
some situations where we believe that firmstaking into account relevant rules, codes and 
best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked at the wider 
circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment.
Ive considered if Revolut ought to have identified a fraud risk when these payments were 
made. Im not persuaded it should have. The payments were spread out over a period of 
months, so that over time M came to appear a regular and expected payee. The size of the 
payments didnt appear out of line with Ms Ts usual spending.
I therefore consider it reasonable that Revolut processed the payment instructions it 
received, in line with its duty to promptly execute authorised payments without undue delay. 
Thats not to say that Ms T wasnt the victim of a scam. Its just that Revolut had no reason 
to suspect that was happening at the time  so isnt liable for her loss.
As our investigator has explained, Id also reiterate that the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, which Ms Ts (former) representative 
referred to, doesnt apply here as Revolut isnt a signatory. Even if it was, the code doesnt 
cover scam payments made by card (as these were).  
Could Revolut have recovered Ms Ts loss?
When Ms T first informed Revolut of her dispute, it did start the process of raising a 
chargeback claim for the payments she flagged at that time. Chargebacks are a voluntary 
scheme, set by the card-scheme provider rather than the account provider. Revolut wasnt 
obliged to raise a chargeback claim but wed consider it good practice to do so if the claim 
was likely to succeed.
Chargeback claims can only be raised about the merchant paid directly  in this case, M. 
And there has to be sufficient evidence to show that a valid claim reason has been met, 
which would normally mean there would need to be evidence that the merchant didnt 
provide the expected service.
The merchant here, M, operated a money transfer service. In response to the claim, it 
successfully demonstrated it provided that service here by loading the funds to the account 
Ms T held with them, and then transferring them on in line with the requests it received. This 
is enough to show a claim wouldnt succeed. So Revolut had no obligation to pursue the 
matter further.
I appreciate this is disappointing for Ms T. But for the reasons explained, Im not persuaded 
Revolut made any errors which caused her a loss. Im therefore not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman