DRN-3163258
The complaint
Mr T complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has refused to cover the cost of replacement 
car keys under his car insurance Keycare policy.  
What happened
Mr T lost his house and car keys. He then made a claim under the Keycare policy he had 
with his car insurance. Arrangements were made to replace the lock for the front door to his 
house, but he says the company couldnt use their own provider to replace his car key. Mr T 
was told to find an auto-locksmith to arrange this, which he did. He then sent the invoice for 
the work to Ageas.
Ageas refused to pay the invoice Mr T provided. It says it must see a valid invoice, as 
required by its policy terms, so it can substantiate the costs incurred. It says the company 
named on the invoice doesnt exist, the mobile number listed isnt answered and there is no 
messaging service. Ageas says Mr T hasnt shown that he paid a valid invoice, but if he can 
it will reimburse the cost of the replacement key. 
Mr T says the locksmith was doing work on the side and that he paid him in cash. He 
highlights messages that were exchanged between him and the locksmith. But Ageas 
maintains it needs to see a valid invoice to be able to reimburse these costs. Mr T wasnt 
happy with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service.  
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She agreed with Ageas that the policy 
terms require a valid invoice to be produced for costs to be reimbursed. She thought Ageas 
had acted reasonably in trying to identify who the locksmith was. But she didnt think Mr T 
had supplied a valid receipt in order for the claim to be paid.
Mr T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. It has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand this will be 
disappointing for Mr T, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
The terms of Mr Ts policy say:
Claims Settlement
If Your claim is handled on a Pay and Claim basis this means You use a locksmith or 
dealer of Your choice and pay the costs upfront. The Insurer will reimburse You, subject to 
the cover/call-out limit, on receipt of valid receipts/invoices. You must obtain authorisation 
from Keycare before proceeding with any work. 
Ageas says that when it authorised Mr Ts claim it told him its locksmiths were unable to 
obtain security codes for his make of car. It says he was told to contact his local dealership 
to do this. In its final response to the complaint, it says if Mr T chose to source a locksmith 
himself rather than use the dealership, its up to him to provide a valid invoice.
In its email correspondence with Ageas Mr T says when he first made the claim, he wasnt 
told he must use a dealership. But that he could find his own locksmith and he would be 
reimbursed within 48 hours. He says he was also told he could claim for the cost of a 
recovery vehicle to take his car to the locksmith and £40 per day for a hire vehicle. 
During his second call with Ageas Mr T explained he was struggling to find anyone who 
could provide a replacement key. He told the company that the dealership was too 
expensive and so chose not to use it.
I note Mr Ts view that the policy terms arent specific in saying who he could use to 
complete the work. So, he chose a locksmith he found on social media to do this. And it was 
only when he was completing the work that the locksmith told him he was doing this on the 
side.   
Ageas maintains the company on Mr Ts invoice doesnt exist. It explains it did try to contact 
the number on the invoice, but without success. It says it contacted the company Inta-lock 
but this company has no record of the work being carried out, and it doesnt employ the 
person who purportedly carried out the work. Ageas says the company was concerned that it 
was being used as a front by the person Mr T had been in contact with. 
I have thought carefully about whether it was fair for Ageas not to pay the invoice for the 
reason it gave.
Mr T has supplied two invoices, which I understand relate to the same work. One has the 
company name, J&S 24/7 Automotive Locksmiths. The other has the name, Inta-lock Auto 
Locksmiths T/A J&S. Ageas says the company listed on the latter invoice doesnt exist. Its 
not clear if its seen the other invoice. 
I have searched for an entry on the Companies House register, but I cant find either 
company name listed.
The terms do clearly say a valid receipt/invoice is required for the claim to be paid. Based 
on the information supplied there is no evidence that the locksmith Mr T used was being 
employed by a registered company, when he did this work. The comments that he was doing 
this job on the side and that he would get in trouble if his employer found out, suggest he 
wasnt. 
Mr T also supplied messages exchanged between him and the locksmith. This shows he 
asks the locksmith for a courtesy car. The locksmith replies that his Mrs is away and he 
could use her car for a day or two. This isnt a service I would expect a registered company 
to be offering. I understand the locksmith has since blocked Mr T on the social media site he 
used to make contact. 
I acknowledge Mr Ts view that the terms are not specific, and Ageas should pay his invoice. 
But the terms are clear that a valid invoice must be provided. I think Ageas has reasonably 
shown the person carrying out the work and the invoice he provided, isnt associated with a 
registered company and is therefore not considered valid. Mr T has also been unable to 
provide any proof of payment, as he made this in cash.  
I sympathise with Mr Ts position but, having considered all of this I think Ageas has treated him fairly when relying on its policy terms and not paying the invoice for the reasons stated 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman