DRN-3779028
The complaint
Ms M complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declined her claim for storm damage to her 
garage roof and garden fence, under her home buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022 Ms M says there was a storm that blew off part of her garage roof and also 
knocked over a fence panel. She contacted QIC and it asked for photos of the damage. She 
provided this information and a surveyor was subsequently sent to inspect. Ms M says that 
in the meantime she paid £65 for a local company to fix the fence panel. 
Ms M says QIC subsequently declined her claim for both the fence and garage roof. She 
submitted a complaint. In its response QIC says although there were storm conditions at the 
time of the loss, this wasnt the underlying reason for the damage and wasnt covered by its 
policy. It also says the damage to the fence panel is excluded from cover as detailed in its 
policy terms. 
Ms M thought this was unfair and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint. She says there is evidence of storm conditions at the time of the loss 
and didnt think QIC had reasonably shown that the garage roof damage shouldnt be 
covered. She agreed that the fence panel was excluded by the policy terms but thought QIC 
should cover the damage caused to the garage roof. 
Ms M agreed with our investigators findings, but QIC didnt respond. Because it didnt 
respond the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Let me explain. 
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event
can be classed as a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline the claim.
Ms Ms policy provides cover in the event of damage caused during a storm. QIC doesnt 
dispute that there were storm conditions at the time Ms Ms loss occurred. So, I neednt 
consider this point further and can move on to the second question.
 
Ms M describes a garage roof panel blowing off in the storm condition winds. This was in 
addition to a fence panel that was knocked over. QIC doesnt think the damage was 
consistent with storm damage. Its notes refer to the storm having highlighted a pre-existing 
issue. In its complaint response it says it reviewed the evidence and noted the damaged roof 
panel is located in the middle of the roof. It doesnt think this could be lifted by the wind. It 
says this would occur to panels at the end of the roof and no other panels have been 
affected. QIC thinks the damaged panel may have had a pre-existing issue. It says the 
damage is more consistent with impact damage than storm damage. 
I can see that QIC considered Ms Ms claim under her accidental damage cover. It did this 
because of its view that the damage was caused by an impact. However, it says the 
definition of an accidental cause isnt met because the potential source of the impact 
damage isnt identifiable.
Ive thought about what QIC has said in order to decline Ms Ms claim. But I dont think it has 
reasonably shown that the damage wasnt caused by the storm conditions. The garage roof 
covering is made up of overlapping corrugated panels that are fixed to the garage structure. I 
acknowledge what QIC has said about the position of the damaged panel. But I dont think 
its reasonably shown that storm force winds couldnt create the kind of force needed to lift 
and break the panel in question. In addition, I dont think because there is only one damaged 
panel, that this demonstrates damage wasnt caused by the storm strength winds, as QIC 
suggests. The remaining panels appear is good condition  which suggests pre-existing 
damage wasnt the cause, but the storm conditions were. 
Im not persuaded that impact damage has been shown to be cause. From the photos I can 
see what appears to be the broken sections of roof panel still present toward the edge of the 
roof. Its not been shown that these broken sections have been examined to see if there is 
evidence of an impact. It also seems more likely that an impact would force the broken 
sections to fall inside the garage. It hasnt been shown that this is what happened here. 
Having considered all the evidence, I think the damaged roof panel is consistent with the 
type of damage a storm typically causes. QIC has shown that at the time of the loss the 
storm force winds were gusting up to 66mph. So, I think its more likely than not that it was 
the strength of the wind that caused the damage to Ms Ms garage roof. 
Ive read Ms Ms policy terms to understand what cover is in place in relation to her damaged 
fence. However, the terms under, Section 1 Buildings cover - Storm clearly state it doesnt 
cover loss or damage to fences. I think its clear from this that the damaged fence panel isnt 
something QIC is required to pay for. 
In summary, I dont think QIC treated Ms M fairly in declining her claim for storm damage to 
her garage roof. It should now cover this part of her claim in line with the policy terms. But I 
think QIC was fair to rely on its policy terms and decline to cover the damaged fence.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. QIC Europe Ltd should:
accept Ms Ms claim for damage to her garage roof.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 Mike Waldron
Ombudsman