DRN-3758606
The complaint
Miss A complains ITI Capital Limited (ITI Capital) didnt administer her account properly 
and delayed its transfer, causing her stress and a loss of investment opportunities.
What happened
Miss A signed a transfer form in September 2020 and her new provider contacted ITI Capital 
to request the transfer of her account. It resent this request in October 2020. Meanwhile 
Miss A became unhappy in September that transfer forms ITI Capital was asking her to 
complete asked for irrelevant or duplicate information. She was concerned that, amongst 
other things, her cash might be removed from its ISA wrapper as a result. She was also 
concerned that more delay might mean the transfer completing after the six months fee-free 
period she had with ITI Capital, and so result in her incurring fees.
ITI Capital replied in November 2020 to Miss As complaint. The transfer had not yet been 
carried out. ITI Capital apologised for the service and for the time transfers were taking - and 
offered Miss A £125 for this to settle her complaint.
Miss A rejected ITI Capitals offer, pointing out, amongst other things, that there had already 
been a lengthy account verification process starting when her account arrived at ITI Capital 
in July 2020 and finishing only in September 2020. Miss A expressed concern ITI Capital 
would hang on to her funds indefinitely and use the large number of transfer requests it had 
received as an excuse for this. Miss A also said the delay had cost her thousands of pounds 
due to having been unable to sell badly performing shares and buy better ones.
ITI Capital replied to this at the end of November 2020, saying Miss A could still trade by 
phone if she wished. Also ITI Capital would not increase its offer or consider redress for 
missed investment opportunities without more specific evidence of the particular trades 
Miss A had wished to make and had been unable to make. Miss A remained dissatisfied and 
referred her complaint to us in early December.
Miss As holdings were transferred out by ITI Capital in early December 2020 and her cash 
followed later that month. A small payment of dividends followed in January 2021.
Our investigator told Miss A in March 2022 that ITI Capital had increased its offer to £350 
and that this was fair. Miss A didnt agree and thought the offer should be higher and include 
redress for missed investment opportunity. She said she couldnt have traded at ITI Capital 
because her account was not a trading account, so she was stuck until the transfer was 
complete. She said calculating the actual loss this caused  in terms of missed investment 
opportunities - is difficult but this doesnt mean there shouldnt be compensation for it.
Miss A also thought shed been paid £24 too little when her cash was transferred. Our 
investigator didnt agree and asked Miss A to provide more evidence to show this. In reply 
Miss A has said ITI Capital failed to recover and include withholding tax of £31 deducted 
from her real estate investment trust income. She says the ISA she held shouldve meant  
and had meant in the past  that this tax was reclaimed for her by the provider. She says 
reclaiming this now, if possible, will likely be harder due to ITI Capitals delay.
We referred Miss As letter to ITI Capital and explained to Miss A and ITI Capital that the 
complaint would be referred for a final decision. We received nothing more from either party.
As Miss As complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss As complaint in part. Ill explain why.
It is not disputed that ITI Capital took too long to transfer Miss As account and I share that 
view. I note the transfer mostly completed in December 2020  over two months after the 
September request, with most of Miss As cash arriving after her investment holdings later in 
December. A small payment was made in January 2021 of some income that had arisen 
since the transfer request. This doesnt change the overall picture very much in my view, 
given the small sum involved.
It is appropriate to bear in mind that before the delay that followed the September transfer 
request, there was a period of around two months taken for the verification process to be 
carried out. So the process took a long time overall  making the impact of ITI Capitals 
delays worse for Miss A.
Also if the transfer had happened sooner, Miss A wouldve been able to place trades with 
her new provider sooner. So this and what Ive said above provides the context against 
which Ive assessed the stress and inconvenience ITI Capitals failings caused Miss A.
Taking that overall picture into account, I do think Miss A suffered stress as well as 
inconvenience, such as wasted time, due to ITI Capitals delay and the failings in its service. 
With this in mind, I think it fair and reasonable for ITI Capital to pay Miss A £350 as redress 
for this. Bearing in mind also what ITI Capital has sent showing tax deducted from income 
paid into Miss As account, and what Miss A says about the difficulty of reclaiming this after 
all this time, ITI Capital should also pay Miss A £31. I say this having considered all that both 
parties have said about this topic.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss A has said about not having a trading account and 
how as a result she couldnt make trades, even by phone, and hadnt agreed to ITI Capitals 
terms. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable, by virtue of the situation 
she describes, to award her redress for missed investment opportunity in the form of losses 
she might have avoided or gains she might have made if she had traded during that period. 
I say this first because theres no clear evidence of Miss A wanting to make particular trades 
of particular amounts at particular times during the transfer delay  so I have nothing to show 
that Miss A missed out on particular profits. 
Also, trading brings with it the prospect of making greater losses or lower gains, as well as 
the possibility of higher gains or lower losses. So without clear evidence of what Miss A 
might have bought or sold, and when this might have happened, I cant say that this trading 
would have improved Miss As situation rather than made it worse. It follows that I cant 
identify a financial loss arising from ITI Capital preventing Miss A from trading. In these 
circumstances, I do not think it fair and reasonable to award redress for such financial loss.
I note that in November 2020 Miss A said ITI Capitals delay had stopped her from being able to sell underperforming holdings. But some of Miss As holdings that before July 2020 
had fallen significantly in value, were worth more in November or December 2020 than they 
were between July and October 2020. So Miss A wouldve got less if she had sold those 
earlier than that. This is not to say that Miss A is bound to have picked the wrong holdings to 
sell or buy  I dont know what she wouldve bought or sold. I just make the point that theres 
no guarantee Miss As position wouldve improved as a result of trading and altering her 
holdings  the results couldve been positive or negative depending on the particular trades.
Miss A did not approach ITI Capital about particular trades she wanted to carry out and no 
other evidence has been presented of specific trading intentions held by Miss A at the time. 
ITI Capital says Miss A could have placed trades by phone. Miss A doesnt think she could 
have. But even if she is right, and I reach no concluded view on that, I still have no evidence 
of specific profitable trades that Miss A would most likely have carried out had it not been for 
ITI Capitals delay of the transfer. So I dont think lost investment opportunities caused by 
ITI Capital led to Miss A suffering financial loss and so I make no award for that.
So I uphold Miss As complaint to the extent and for the reasons Ive explained above. 
Im grateful to Miss A for the documents she sent and the detailed summaries she provided, 
which greatly assisted our investigation. I thank the parties for the help they have given us. 
Putting things right
ITI Capital Limited is at fault and should pay Miss A £381 to put things rights.
If ITI Capital Limited doesnt pay Miss A this sum within one month of receiving from us 
notification of Miss As acceptance of my decision, ITI Capital Limited should also pay 
Miss A simple interest on the sum at the rate of 8% per year from the date of my decision 
until the date ITI Capital Limited pays my award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold Miss As complaint. I order ITI Capital Limited to 
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman