DRN-2331881
The complaint
 Miss H complained that her car insurer, Covea Insurance PLC provided poor service when 
she was involved in an accident. She says she received poor representation and as a result 
court papers were sent to her home while she was on holiday.
What happened
Miss H was involved in a collision and contacted her insurance provider Covea. Covea said 
they tried to settle the claim as joint liability as their solicitors reviewed the CCTV of the 
incident and felt they wouldnt have a strong case if they were to go to court. Covea said its 
solicitors advice was that it should accept liability on behalf of Miss H.
Miss H says she was served with court papers while she was on holiday, so she contacted 
Covea who assured her they would contact the court. However, Miss H later received a 
county court judgement (CCJ) which said she hadnt contacted the court. There is little 
information available about what Covea or their solicitors did or didnt do however it doesnt 
appear that they participated in the court hearing. Miss H complained to Covea about the 
poor service she had received. 
Miss H says she had to apply to have the CCJ removed and Covea say they referred her 
complaint to their solicitors and withdrew her complaint against Covea.
Miss H remained unhappy and she referred her complaint to us. Covea say they havent 
issued a final response letter and Miss Hs complaint is being considered by their solicitors. 
However as more than eight weeks has passed since Miss H raised her complaint with 
Covea we are able to get involved. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Hs complaint and recommended Covea pay her £600 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its poor service had caused her.  Covea 
did not agree with this, saying that any complaint should be against their solicitors not them  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Hs complaint and Ill explain my reasons.
Its not clear to me why Covea thinks the complaint should be against its solicitors. The 
solicitors werent accessed by Miss H as a consequence of any legal expenses cover. They 
were instructed by Covea for its own purposes to assess the prospects of success of any 
legal action in order to determine its liability for the accident. As such, Miss Hs complaint is 
clearly against Covea, and the actions of its agents, in this case its solicitors, is part of that. 
Coveas confusion about this has added to the delays in its dealing with Miss Hs complaint 
and I can see that it may have made the matter more stressful and inconvenient for Miss H 
to resolve
Based on the available information I think Covea should have instructed their solicitors to 
have defended the claim in court or made a settlement on Miss Hs behalf. I dont think Miss 
H should have received a CCJ. Miss H said it was stressful and inconvenient for her to have 
the CCJ removed and I havent seen any evidence to show that Covea or their solicitors did 
anything to try resolve the matter.
Therefore to resolve Miss Hs complaint I agree with the investigator that Covea should pay 
her £600 compensation in recognition of the poor service she received and for the distress 
and inconvenience she had in getting the CCJ removed from her credit file   
My final decision
 For the reasons I have outlined above it is my final decision that Miss Hs complaint is 
upheld. 
I require Covea Insurance PLC to pay Miss H £600 compensation in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Sarah Scott
Ombudsman