DRN-4392334
The complaint
Mrs M, director of E (a limited company) is unhappy Revolut Ltd wont reimburse E for the 
money it lost when she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mrs M (on behalf of E) is represented in this complaint by a solicitor, for simplicity I will refer 
to Mrs M throughout this decision, even when referencing what those representatives have 
said on her and Es behalf.
Mrs M fell victim to a safe account scam. After her details were compromised via a phishing 
text, Mrs M was contacted by individuals claiming to be from Revolut. Mrs M says she was 
told there had been an attempt at fraud on Es Revolut account, and that she needed to 
transfer Es money to various other accounts so it could be moved to a safe account. 
Unfortunately, and unknown to her at the time, Mrs M was actually speaking with fraudsters. 
But believing that she was genuinely dealing with Revolut, Mrs M ended up making 12 
payments to various accounts with two beneficiary banks.
After making these payments, Mrs M contacted Revolut directly and realised she had been 
the victim of a scam. Revolut logged the fraud and contacted the banks the funds had been 
sent to, to see if any funds remained that could be recovered. Ultimately though, while it was 
able to recover a small amount from one of the recipient banks, Revolut told Mrs M that it 
wouldnt be reimbursing E for the payments made from its account.
Unhappy, Mrs M referred the matter to our service. One of our Investigators looked into the 
complaint. Overall, they considered that while Mrs M had authorised the transfers (albeit as 
a result of a scam) Revolut should have done more to intervene when the third payment was 
made, given the pattern that was being established. They felt Revolut should have contacted 
Mrs M directly, rather than relying on any written warnings it had provided. It was our 
Investigators view that, had Revolut done so, it was more likely than not the scam wouldve 
unravelled, and part of the loss wouldve been prevented.
Our Investigator also considered that Mrs M  on behalf of E  wasnt partly to blame and 
shouldnt bear any responsibility for the loss. Our Investigator recommended Revolut refund 
Es loss from the third payment onwards, plus interest
Revolut accepted the Investigators findings, but Mrs M did not. She maintains that the 
second payment, which was the highest of the 12 payments made, was unusual enough that 
Revlut should have stepped in to ask more questions before allowing it to be made.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
Its not disputed that Mrs M, on behalf of E, authorised the payments that are in dispute here. 
So as per the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in 
place) that means E is responsible for them. That remains the case even though Mrs M was 
the unfortunate victim of a scam.
Because of this, E is not automatically entitled to a refund. But the regulatory landscape, 
along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for account providers to 
protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes monitoring accounts 
to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm, 
intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent customers falling 
victims to scams.
Taking the above into consideration, I need to decide whether Revolut acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with E, or whether it should have done more than it did.
There was regular activity on Es account for the months in the run up to the scam, and E did 
regularly make large payments out to both other businesses and to private individuals. The 
first payment Mrs M made to the scammer was for only £100, and I would not expect that to 
have been flagged for further checks. The second payment Mrs M made, to the same payee 
as the first payment, was for £24,750. This was a relatively large payment, but given the way 
that Es account generally operated, I dont think it was unusual enough to have flagged to 
Revolut as potentially suspicious. For example, E had made a payment of over €32,000 
around 10 days previous, and had made further payments of £10,800 and £15,000 in the 
days before the scam took place. I appreciate these later two payments were lower, but they 
form part of a pattern of E making large payments, and with this pattern in mind I dont think 
the second payment  for £24,750  should have flagged as unusual to Revolut.
The third payment Mrs M made was again for a small amount  £80  but was to another 
new payee, and Revolut has confirmed that when Mrs M made this payment  which she 
thought was going to another account in her name  the confirmation of payee warning was 
triggered. Given the previous activity, that this was another payment in a short period to a 
new payee, and that Revoluts systems had identified that the name of the account did not 
match what Mrs M had input, I do not think that this activity, taken as a whole, was usual for 
Es account. I think the activity was unusual enough that Revolut ought to have been alerted 
to the possibility of financial harm and intervened at this stage.
Considering the nature of the scam, I think a conversation about what the payment was for 
would have quickly revealed the scam and prevented the third payment  and then any 
further payments  from being made. Mrs M doesnt appear to have been given a cover 
story to use by the scammer, and she already though she was talking to Revolut, so if shed 
been unable to progress with making a payment until shed been forced to speak to the real 
Revolut, then I think shed have been open and honest about what was happening. With this 
in mind, I think it would be reasonable for Revolut to refund the payments made from the 
third payment onwards (inclusive), as I consider those payments could have been 
prevented.
Ive thought about whether E should bear some responsibility for its loss by way of 
contributory negligence, but I dont think it should. Mrs M fell victim to a sophisticated scam, 
and in the circumstances of the scam  including the real fear that she might lose a 
significant amount of Es money  I can understand why the fraud went undetected by 
Mrs M.With the benefit of hindsight, there may have been some red flags (for example the 
mismatch in the confirmation of payee) that Mrs M couldve picked up on, particularly if shed 
had more time to think. But the scam took place over a relatively short period of time and in 
a pressured situation. This is of course a deliberate tactic by the fraudsters to create fear  in 
the hope it would disrupt Mrs Ms thinking and make her more compliant. On balance, Im 
satisfied that in the circumstances Mrs Ms actions were not unreasonable.
I have also considered if Revolut did enough to try to recover Es money once Mrs M had 
told it of the scam. I agree with our Investigators findings that it appears there was a delay 
on Revoluts end in reporting the scam to the beneficiary banks, but Im also satisfied that 
this delay is unlikely to have affected the amount that Revolut was able to recover from 
those beneficiaries. Weve seen evidence from one of the beneficiary banks (the one that the 
first two payments were made to) that the funds were removed from the recipient accounts 
very quickly  as I would expect in a scam of this type  and I consider it more likely than not 
that funds were removed from the accounts with the other beneficiary bank just as quickly. 
And, in any case, I consider that all the payments made to the second beneficiary bank 
could have been prevented by Revolut, so what might have happened regarding recovery of 
those sums is no longer relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Revolut should:
- Refund the disputed payments from the third payment onwards (inclusive)  minus any 
funds already recovered
- Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from 21 August 2022 to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Revolut Ltd should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman