DRN-2854481
The complaint
Mr M complains (through his son) that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly increased the 
premium on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr Ms wife was insured with a motor insurance company other than 
Ageas. In late November 2019, she was involved in a minor road traffic incident that led to a 
claim for a damaged wing mirror. That insurance company shared some details on the 
Claims Underwriting Exchange database (CUE).
In mid-December 2020, Mr M renewed his car insurance through an insurance broker. Mr M 
was the policyholder. His wife and son were named drivers.
Ageas was the insurance company responsible for setting premiums and dealing with any 
claims. The basic motor premium was £664.52. With extra cover and with the brokers fee, 
Mr M paid a total of £834.88.
A few days later, Ageas found the claim recorded against Mr Ms wife on CUE. It increased 
the premium. The broker wrote to Mr M to ask him to pay an additional £362.90. That made 
a total cost of £1,197.78. Mr M (or someone on his behalf) paid that amount on about 22 
December 2020.
Mr Ms son complained to the broker that the increase was 54.6%. The broker wrote a final 
response dated mid-January 2021, saying that Ageas would deal with the complaint.
Ageas wrote a final response dated a few days later. It said that the additional premium was 
correct. But it also offered Mr M the options of voluntarily cancelling the policy or of a refund 
of the additional premium on the basis that it would meet any claim proportionately at 
66.16%.
Unhappy with that, Mr M brought his complaint - against Ageas - to us in February 2021. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
the additional premium had been calculated correctly and all Ageas customers in Mr Ms 
position will have been charged a similar premium. She said that Ageas had provided her 
with confidential business-sensitive information - that she couldnt share with Mr M - to 
explain the premium calculation.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. His son says, in summary, that:
He asks for full disclosure of the information that the investigator relied on.
Ageas told him that the additional premium applied regardless of the amount of the 
claim. This insurance companys approach to underwriting in this case does not 
adequately distinguish between risks.
Treating all customers badly is not an adequate defence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules (DISP). One of those rules is as follows:
3.5.9
The Ombudsman may:

(2) accept information in confidence (so that only an edited version, summary or 
description is disclosed to the other party) where he considers it appropriate
I have to take into account the relevant law (including Consumer Insurance (Disclosure
and Misrepresentations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), regulation and good practice. Above all I have 
to decide whats fair and reasonable.
Ive seen a statement of fact recording that Ageas asked Mr M in relation to him, his wife and 
son, a question as follows:
Had any accidents, claims, damage, theft or loss involving any motor vehicle 
during the last five years, whether or not a claim was made, and regardless of 
blame?
In relation to his wife, Mr M answered yes, which prompted a request for details. In 
response to that, Mr M gave details of a claim from September 2007. I find it likely that he 
knew about his wifes minor accident in December 2019. And in any event, he shouldve 
checked with her when answering the question. So Im not satisfied that he took reasonable 
care to give a correct answer.
From the renewal letter, I see that the total cost was as follows:
Motor premium £664.52
Motor Legal £  31.95
Key Cover £  26.95
Protected NCD £  44.96
Courtesy Car Plus £  39.00
Policy admin fee £  27.50
Total cost    £834.88
The renewal letter enclosed the statement of fact and asked Mr M to check it.
Ageas says that if he hadnt given an incorrect answer, it wouldve charged a higher 
premium. I accept that. So I consider that the careless answer was a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA. 
I dont consider that Ageas treated Mr M unfairly by asking him to pay an additional 
premium.The thrust of Mr Ms complaint is that the additional premium was too much. He points out 
that the additional premium of £362.90 is an increase of 54.6% on the motor premium of 
£664.52.
The Ageas final response mentioned the option that Mr M could pay only the original 
premium of £834.88 but Ageas would pay any claim proportionately - that is it would pay the 
same percentage of the claim as Mr M had paid of the correct premium. I said that the 
percentage was 66.16%. As thats about two thirds, the additional premium would be about a 
further third  an increase of about 50%.
The final response from the intermediary included the following statement:
To clarify, insurers base their ratings and thus their price on the potential risk a 
policy may bring 
it's important we also explain that the premium requested is not a penalty, it is simply 
the difference between what you have paid and what you wouldve been asked to 
pay had we been aware of the claim prior to renewal.
Mr Ms son understandably regards the additional premium as a penalty for the 
misrepresentation. I can understand that he finds it difficult to accept that a named drivers 
incident involving a wing mirror ought to make such a difference to the premium.
But there are many ways of assessing and pricing risk. Theres no 'correct' way of doing it. 
Each insurer will take its own view.  It will decide what factors to take into account and how 
much weight to put on each of them. Some insurers may use only a few factors, others many 
more. This means that different insurers may have different prices. 
Ageas has shown us some underwriting guidelines. They demonstrate that it assessed risk 
by allocating demerit points to a driver according to the number of incidents in the previous 
five years (rather than the value of the damage or any injury claim). It also took account of 
whether each incident incurred points on the drivers licence. 
Ageas has also shown us a premium table. That demonstrates that it applied a multiplier to a 
driver according to the number of demerit points.
We are obliged to publish final decisions on our website. And the Ageas guidelines and table 
are commercially sensitive. So I consider that it is appropriate to accept them in confidence 
and to provide only the above summary to Mr M.
Ive looked carefully at the guidelines and the table and their application to the premium in 
Mr Ms case.
Im satisfied that Ageas wouldve applied the guidelines and the table to any other driver 
who, like Mr Ms wife, had a single low-value incident not involving points on her licence. So I 
dont consider that Ageas treated Mr M unfairly by singling- out his wifes claim for special 
treatment.
Its likely that other insurance companies would adopt a different approach to Ageas and 
arrive at a different premium. But I cant say that the Ageas guidelines and table  or the 
additional premium it charged Mr M  were unfair to Mr M.
Further, I note that Ageas acted promptly. In mid-December 2020, Mr M chose to pay the 
additional premium rather than seeking to cancel the policy.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman