DRN-2794835
The complaint
 Miss S complains about a personal loan provided to her by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as
Loans 2 Go, which she says was unaffordable. 
What happened
 Loans 2 Go provided Miss S with a loan of £800 on 27 August 2019. The loan was to be 
repaid over 18 months with monthly repayments of £182.84. If Miss S made each payment 
when it was due, shed pay £3,291.12 in total (the interest rate is 1013% APR). To date Miss 
S hasnt made a repayment.
Miss S says that if Loans 2 Go had carried out proper checks, it would have seen that she 
couldnt afford to repay the loan. She feels that Loans 2 Go have irresponsibly lent the 
money to her.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Did L2G carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that Loans 2 Go asked Miss S about her income and expenditure. It has told our 
service that it adjusted Miss Ss income and expenditure based on what it says was its 
verification. It reduced Miss Ss declared income from £1500 a month to £1359.72. It then 
increased what Miss S says her expenditure was of £655, to £1086.78, based on checks it 
carried out this included a credit search.
Ive carefully considered what Loans 2 Go has said about how it calculated Miss Ss 
disposable income. I dont think its checks were proportionate for this loan because there 
was a discrepancy between what Miss S said about her income and expenditure and what it 
says it could see through its checks. I dont think Loans 2 Go should have accepted this loan 
knowing or having reason to suspect Miss S wasnt being truthful about her income or 
expenditure in this case. So, I think Loans 2 Go should either have carried out further checks 
to see if there were good reasons for this, or its shouldnt have provided Miss S with the 
loan. This leads me to think that Loans 2 Go needed to take steps to verify Miss Ss actual 
monthly expenditure. 
As I cant see that this Loans 2 Go did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out 
before providing Miss S with her loan were reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind 
Miss S would need to meet her loan repayments over 18 months.
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Ive concluded the checks Loans 2 Go carried out werent proportionate and that they 
needed to do more. But I dont need to look into what it would have seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks, because I dont think Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision 
anyway, based on what it had in front of it. 
I say this because when I look through the credit search Loans 2 Go carried out, I can see 
that it shows Miss S was having problems managing her finances. She had a bank account 
and a credit card showing in default and she was in arrears with two credit cards, one of 
which was at that time, 4 payments behind. The credit report also showed the accounts that 
she had defaulted on were for around £1530, more than her monthly income alone. She was 
also close to her limit on two of her credit cards also. 
I think it would have been clear from these search results that Miss S wasnt managing to 
repay her existing debt. I think it was unlikely that Miss S could repay further credit 
sustainably without experiencing adverse consequences. The findings of the search showed 
that she was not making payments on a number of accounts on her existing credit and so I 
think it is more likely she wouldnt manage to do so on this loan either. And, as it happened, 
she made no repayments and told Loans 2 Go that she was struggling with her finances.  
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss S in some other way?
Miss S says she didnt sign an agreement with Loans 2 Go for this fixed term loan that 
showed she needed to make repayments of £182.84 a month. But I can see from the 
documentation provided by Loans 2 Go that she electronically signed its fixed term loan 
agreement with the costs clearly displayed in this document.
Miss S also says that Loans 2 Go has now agreed to remove all interest owed and will then 
come up with a payment plan. I can see an email from Loans 2 Go from 22 January 2020, 
where it has offered to remove all interested owed on the loan and that it would be willing to 
discuss a repayment plan, if Miss S discontinues her complaint with our service. Miss S then 
replied to Loans 2 Go to say that she would not do this as she would also like credit file 
entries to be removed regarding this loan.
When I look through all of the correspondence between both parties, it doesnt look at this 
stage like anything has been agreed regarding the outstanding amount owed by Miss S. So, 
both parties will need to discuss this. I would like to remind Loans 2 Go of its responsibilities 
in treating its customers fairly, when it does so.
Did Miss S lose out as a result of Loans 2 Go unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Miss S has been indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that 
she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of 
what L2G did wrong.
So, I think that Loans 2 Go needs to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Loans 2 Go responded and said it has no further comments. 
Miss S has not responded by the deadline given.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Loans 2 Go has not made any further points and Miss S has not responded. So, as neither 
party has anything further to add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within 
my provisional decision. With that being the case, Loans 2 Go now needs to put things 
right. 
 
Putting things right
 I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Miss Ss complaint for 
Loans 2 Go to put things right by:
Remove any interest and charges applied to Miss Ss account from when it was opened; 
With the capital amount outstanding, Loans 2 Go needs to treat Miss S sympathetically 
and fairly, which might include coming to a new arrangement about how best to repay 
this; and
Loans 2 Go should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file in 
relation to the loan, once it has been settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ss complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as described above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman