DRN-3696605
The complaint
Mr T complained that Scottish Widows Limited (SW) wouldnt return money he paid into his
employers Group Personal Pension Plan (GPPP) in error.
What happened
Mr T said he didnt want to join his employers GPPP but was enrolled under the
Governments opt in requirements introduced in 2014. He received a benefit statement in
January 2015 stating the policy value of £144.29. It showed he had paid in £54.32 and
received tax relied of £13.58 and his employer had paid in £67.90 giving total contributions
of £135.80. He had never received any letter from SW terminating the policy. He said his
employer took £54.32 from his salary in July 2014. It then took a second payment of £34.44
in August 2014. He then completed an opt out form and the amount of £34.44 was refunded
but not the £54.32. He didnt pursue a refund in 2015 due to the small amount but now
wanted to receive payment.
SW said when it first set up a policy for Mr Ts employment it had collected two premiums
but both were subsequently refunded back to the employer. Mr Ts policy had no value and it
believed it was cancelled from outset. It suggested he contacted his employer.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case and said the following.
When the investigator looked at this complaint, he considered whether this service could
consider it. There are rules governing how this service could operate and that included the
dates when the events complained about took place.
The investigator concluded that this service could consider this complaint. SW did not
dispute that finding so I had not considered it further.
In order to make an award for financial loss or distress and inconvenience I needed to
conclude that SW had done something wrong.
Mr T said that SW had not repaid his pension contributions whereas SW said it refunded
them to his employer.
It is unfortunate that there were three parties involved in this dispute but only two, SW and 
Mr T were party to this compliant. That meant we are unable to get a complete picture of all 
that happened at the time. I must however base my decision on the evidence available.
It was clear from Mr Ts pay slips that two amounts are shown as having been deducted
(£54.32 and then £34.44) for his pension and one amount repaid (£34.44). So based on that
evidence it seemed that one repayment was outstanding. The pay slip did not say which
pension scheme the deductions were paid to, nor how much any employer contribution was.
The screenshots I had seen from SW showed two amounts received, although I noted their
amounts didnt match the amount deducted. There was also a pension benefit statement 
dated January 2015 showing Mr T had a transfer value of £144.29. The statement noted it 
received £135.80, of which £54.32 was paid by Mr T and £67.90 by his employer and basic 
tax relief of £13.58 was added. These amounts were invested in SW Pension Portfolio three 
and four.
The difference between the contribution of £135.80 and £144.29 must presumably be due to
investment returns. Mr T said receiving this statement meant that he didnt chase his
employer for the amount which had not been refunded to him. The £54.32 shown as an
employee contributions matched the amount shown as deducted from Mr Ts pay in July
2014 but not shown as refunded in subsequent months.
While Mr T says SW cannot prove it repaid his contributions, I did have copy screen shots
showing the dates of the refunds from SW. So I did have some evidence to that effect. It was
clear from Mr Ts pay slips that when contributions were refunded, he only received his and 
not that of his employer, so it would seem appropriate that the refund was paid to the 
employer as SW said its terms suggested. But SW had no way of ensuring that his employer 
refunded his contributions, but I cant hold it responsible if it failed to do so.
I thought the explanation that the second refund wasnt made until 2015, which was after the
January statement was issued, also explained why that statement was issued. It was
unfortunate that this meant Mr T didnt chase his employer for that amount at that time.
I did think it would have been helpful if SW had confirmed to Mr T that his policy had been
cancelled or closed and I didnt have any evidence that it did this. That would at least have
prompted Mr T to follow up the refund he felt he was due.
So on balance I have evidence that the deduction was repaid but as I say I could not hold 
SW responsible if Mr Ts employer did not then repay him nor that Mr T didnt chase them. 
So I could not make an award directing SW to pay the money Mr T believes was owed to 
him.
I did however think it would have been reasonable for SW to write to Mr T to confirm his
policy was closed or cancelled. Had it done so during 2015 this would also have enabled Mr
T to follow up his employer at that time. I think that was a mistake on the part of SW
particularly having regard to its obligations under the principles in the FCA handbook to have
regard to the information needs of its clients (principle 7) and under the Conduct of Business
Rules to communicate in a manner that is fair, clear and not misleading (COBS rule 4.2.1). I
think the failure to confirm the policy was closed or cancelled was misleading for Mr T.
As I have concluded that SW made a mistake, I can consider an award for financial loss and
the distress and inconvenience caused.
I didnt think the failure to notify Mr T of closure of his policy caused him any financial loss.
But I thought this matter had been time consuming and frustrating for Mr T and I thought the
failure to tell him the policy was closed or cancelled meant he was left with a misleading
impression about the policy. An award for distress and inconvenience is intended to reflect
the impact on Mr T not to punish SW. In the light of what I have said I think an award of £300
would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr T said he thought my summary was essentially accurate and he had nothing to add.
SW said it agreed there was a loss of expectation but there was a lack of evidence now available to determine exactly what did happen. It noted Mr T asked for a refund of the 
missing approximately £54 and an apology so felt that the award of £300 was excessive 
especially as it was intended to reflect the impact on Mr T. However it said it would accept it 
and would be happy to make payment as directed subject to its comments above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have not changed my mind. While I note the comments, I note also that 
SW agrees the payment. 
Putting things right
To put things right SW should make the payment proposed for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct that Scottish Widows Limited should within 30 days 
of this service notifying Scottish Widows Limited that Mr T has accepted my decision, pay Mr 
T £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman