DRN-3789567
The complaint
Ms S complains Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt check whether she could afford to pay 
back the loans which were granted to her. 
What happened
Ms S took five loans between November 2018 and March 2020. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 30/11/2018 28/06/2019 33 £10.00
2 £150.00 22/03/2019 30/10/2019 33 £7.50
3 £200.00 28/06/2019 11/03/2020 33 £10.00
4 £300.00 30/10/2019 outstanding 34 £15.00
5 £300.00 11/03/2020 outstanding 34 £15.00
The statement of account provided by Morses, which was last updated in 
September 2020 shows an outstanding balance remaining due for loans 4 and 5. 
The weekly repayment column above is the cost per week per loan. So, where loans 
overlapped the cost will be greater. For example, when loans 1 and 2 were running at the 
same time Ms Ss weekly commitment was £17.50. 
Morses considered Ms Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. Ms S then referred the complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who thought a reasonable decision to lend 
had been made for loans 1 - 3. But in the adjudicators view, before loans 4 and 5 were 
granted Morses ought to have carried out more detailed checks including verifying the 
information Ms S had provided. Had it done so, it wouldve likely discovered Ms S was 
having problems managing her existing credit because the adjudicator could see a number 
of returned direct debit payments.  
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation and Ive summarised its response 
below.
Ms S borrowed what Morses considers to be low value loans.
Ms S wasnt required to use excessive amounts of her income to meet the loan 
repayments. 
There was no set list of checks Morses needed to do before granting these loans and 
there was no requirement for it to check her bank statements. 
Proportionate affordability checks were completed before each loan. 
Loan 3 was repaid late, but there were no additional late fees or additional charges. 
Apart from this, Ms S had a good repayment history.
Ms S doesnt seem to have disagreed with the findings reached by the adjudicator.  
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this sort of lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms S could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Ss 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms S. These factors include:
Ms S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms S.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms S could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms S was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, in particular made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms S complaint.
Ms S doesnt appear to have disagreed with the outcome that the adjudicator reached and 
Morses hasnt disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about loans 1 - 3. Therefore, 
these loans are no longer in dispute, and I dont think I must make a finding about them. But 
I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship. 
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses decision to provide loans 4 and 5. Loans 4 and 5
Loan 4 was taken on the same day that loan 2 was repaid, and it was also, the largest 
capital loan to date. With Ms S existing credit commitment to Morses, her total liability to it 
was £25 per week. 
Loan 5 was granted on the same day that loan 3 was repaid and it had taken Ms S weeks 
longer than contractually planned into to repay loan 3. Again, loan 5, was the joint largest 
loan to date and with loan 4 running at the same time her total commitment to Morses was 
£30 per week. 
When these loans were approved, Morses asked Ms S for details of her income and she 
declared a weekly figure of £360 for loan 4 and £390 for loan 5. Mores says the income 
figure was checked with a credit reference agency for accuracy, but no further information 
about the check and / or the result(s) have been provided. 
In terms of outgoings, Ms S declared these to be £232 for loan 4 (including the repayment 
for loan 3) and £187 for loan 5 (including the repayment towards loan 4). Overall, this left 
disposable weekly income of £125.50 for loan 4 and £203 for loan 5. 
Morses may have considered that Ms S had sufficient disposable income to afford the 
repayments she was committed to making. And while, the information it gathered suggested 
this, I dont think, for the reasons Ill outline below the checks went far enough.
By loan 4, it wouldve been proportionate for Morses checks to go further. This loan was 
taken almost a year after her first loan, the day of loan 2 being repaid and was the largest 
capital loan to date. These factors, to name a few, ought to have prompted Morses to have 
started to have verified the information Ms S was providing. 
So, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied solely on what Ms S declared to 
it about her income and expenditure even though this information suggested Ms S could 
afford these loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms S actual financial position to 
ensure the loans were affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking 
for evidence of her income and outgoings through example pay slips or copies of bills. Or 
perhaps this information couldve been verified using a copy of her credit file or by reviewing 
her bank statements. 
I accept the regulations dont provide a list of checks that Morses needed to do, but the 
regulations do talk about proportionate checks, and given what Ive said above, it had now 
reached the stage where it wasnt reasonable to continue to rely on what it was being told. 
Further checks wouldve helped Morses understand where there was anything that it may 
have needed to have considered about Ms S financial position before it advanced the loans. 
Ms S has provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with copy bank statements in the lead 
up to these loans being approved. So, I think its entirely reasonable to have considered 
them to understand what Morses may have seen had it carried out what I consider to be a 
proportionate check. 
In the period leading up to loan 4 being granted I can see a number of (at least 3) direct 
debit payments being returned as unpaid due to a lack of funds in her account. And, 
returned bill payments are a sign as outlined by the industry regulator in CONC 1.3 that Ms S was likely in financial difficulties. Morses wouldve likely discovered this, if it had done 
what I consider to be a proportionate check. 
So, I think, loan 4  and any future loan (including loan 5) were unsustainable for Ms S and 
therefore Im upholding her complaint about them. Ive outlined below what Morses needs to 
do in order to put things right for her.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not given Ms S loans 4 and 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms S loans 4 and 5.
If Morses has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Morses isnt able to buy the debts back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms S towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything you have already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms 
S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms S originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loans 4 and 
5, and treat any repayments made by Ms S as though they had been repayments of 
the principal towards these loans. If this results in Ms S having made overpayments 
then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated 
on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Ms S. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms S. Morses shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal you 
have already written-off. 
E) Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms S credit file in 
relation to loans 4 and 5. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms S complaint in part.  
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms S as Ive directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman