DRN-3744424
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Facet Investment Management Ltd changed the way her pension was 
invested, meaning she was exposed to a higher level of risk than was suitable for her 
circumstances.
What happened
Mrs C has been a client of Facet since 2010. Her husband has a similar relationship, and 
receives the same services from the firm. Mrs Cs husband has also made a complaint about 
the way Facet managed his pension investments that I am dealing with separately. Given 
that the advice they received was the same, I make no apologies for the similarity in my two 
decisions.
When Mrs C was initially advised by Facet she held pension savings in two pension plans 
that were administered by separate providers. Facet provided Mrs C with a discretionary 
fund management (DFM) service across her pension savings. In November 2015 Facet 
advised Mrs C that she should consolidate her pension savings into a new self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). Mrs C accepted that advice, and hasnt made any complaint 
about the recommendation she received. At that time the information given to Mrs C 
indicated that she would pay a platform charge of up to 0.35% of her invested funds, 
average fund charges of 0.49%, and an advice charge to Facet of 0.94%.
In November 2016, Facet wrote to Mrs C explaining that it had launched its own funds, and 
that it proposed her pension investments would be transferred to these. The letter stated 
that, very little will change other than access to institutional, rather than retail, class 
investments and the mechanics in which we update our investment models. It stated that in 
future Facet wouldnt be charging its DFM fee for any holdings within the funds as the fund 
itself would pay those charges. Facet told Mrs C that the change would be more cost 
efficient in terms of overall charges, with better potential returns and easier access to 
performance statistics and comparisons. It stated that if Mrs C did not wish the fund to be 
moved that she should make contact with the firm. This letter did not outline the cost of the 
proposed new investment nor give an indication of the fund Mrs C would be invested in or 
the types of holdings within the fund.
Mrs Cs pension investments were transferred into what are now called the EF Facet 
Cautious Discretionary Portfolio Fund and the EF Facet Balanced Discretionary Portfolio 
Fund.
In October 2019, an investment held in each of the portfolios was suspended and ultimately 
defaulted, resulting in a significant reduction in the value of Mrs Cs funds. Mrs C complained 
to Facet about the level of risk associated with the recommendation. Facet told Mrs C that 
the investments into which it had placed her pension savings were in line with the level of 
risk she had always been willing to take and that she had always been invested under a 
discretionary mandate. Unhappy with that response, Mrs C referred her complaint to us.
Mrs Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that Facet 
didnt hold Mrs Cs authority to make investment decisions on her SIPP via its DFM service. 
And he thought that the investments held within the chosen funds were unsuitable for the 
risk profile that applied to Mrs C. Later the investigator also noted that the charges Mrs C 
needed to pay following the transfer were much higher than she had been paying before. So 
he didnt think Facet had treated Mrs C fairly and asked the firm to pay Mrs C some 
compensation.
Facet didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mrs C accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs C and by Facet. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Our investigator looked at whether Facet held the appropriate authority from Mrs C to 
provide its DFM service on her SIPP. I share the investigators view that it appears the 
required authority is missing. But I think it was clear to Mrs C that this was the service that 
Facet was offering to her and she was content to both receive it, and pay the appropriate 
charges. I accept Facets conclusion that the missing paperwork was merely an 
administrative oversight. And on balance I think that, had Facet asked Mrs C to complete the 
normal authority documents for its DFM service in relation to her SIPP, she would have done 
so. I dont therefore intend to make any further findings in relation to that part of the 
complaint.
I am not satisfied that Facet made Mrs C sufficiently aware of the changes that were made 
to her SIPP investments in November 2016. The letter she was sent informing her about the 
launch of the new funds failed to outline the impact of the changes either from a risk or 
charges perspective. I think that both those matters, had they been more clearly explained, 
would have led Mrs C to make a different decision. But at that time, Mrs C appears to have 
relied on the trust she had developed from her past relationship with the firm to accept 
Facets recommendation, and the change of her investments via its DFM service.Prior to the change, Mrs Cs SIPP monies had been held in mainstream regulated 
investments. The new funds, in part, made use of investments of a non-standard nature, 
including those that might have less liquidity than would be appropriate for someone in 
Mrs Cs position  a consumer who was already making use of her pension savings to 
support her day to day living costs. Whilst it is true that there is nothing preventing a DFM 
portfolio or fund using investments such as these, I think Mrs Cs circumstances suggest 
they should only form a very small part of the portfolio due to the level of risk involved, 
particularly as they also included overseas investments and therefore included an element of 
currency risk. 
Generally the FCA would consider that unregulated or high-risk investments, should only 
form extremely small proportions of a clients investments. I agree with this statement. And 
given that Mrs C was categorised as a cautious to moderate investor I dont think the levels 
of the investments of this nature found within the Facet funds would reasonably be thought 
appropriate for her particularly in view of the liquidity risks and the fact she was already 
making use of her retirement savings.
In the letter Facet sent to Mrs C about the change in investment approach in 
November 2016, it stated that one of the advantages to Mrs C would be lower charges, 
although it did not provide an indication of what the investment charges would be, or how 
they compared to the existing funds.
The fund fact sheets, from December 2016, for what are now called the EF Facet Cautious 
Discretionary Portfolio Fund and the EF Facet Balanced Discretionary Portfolio Fund that 
have been provided to us show the Total Expense Ratios (TER) to be 2.05% and 2.19% 
respectively. This is noted to include a 0.75% Annual Management Charge (AMC), that 
includes a 0.75% rebate. These charges are significantly higher than the charges noted for 
the investments recommended in November 2015.
I have considered whether it was beneficial to Mrs C to incur these additional costs and am 
not persuaded that it was. There is nothing to indicate that her circumstances had changed 
since November 2015, or that she was unhappy with the investments she held. Facet has 
not provided any real advantages to the additional cost, and in fact it misrepresented the 
position in relation to the charges by suggesting that the change would reduce Mrs Cs 
charges. The information sent to Mrs C in 2016 when the funds were changed did not outline 
the charges, the fact the charges were higher than the existing investments, or provide any 
sort of comparison. And I believe that if Mrs C had been aware of the increase in charges, 
she would not have agreed to go ahead with the switch to the new investments.
So I dont think the switch to Facets own investment funds was suitable for Mrs C. Im 
therefore upholding her complaint and will direct Facet to put things right.
There is no doubt that the failure of some of the underlying investments, and the resulting 
suspension of the investment funds, has caused a great deal of inconvenience to Mrs C. For 
an extended period of time she was unable to access the normal income that she took from 
her pension savings. And she will have been distressed at the performance of the unsuitable 
investments. So I am directing Facet to additionally pay Mrs C £600 for her distress and 
inconvenience.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mrs C should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.I take the view that Mrs C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mrs C's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Facet do?
To compensate Mrs C fairly, Facet must:
Compare the performance of Mrs C's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Facet should add interest as set out below:
Facet should pay into Mrs C's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Facet is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs C's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mrs C wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mrs C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mrs C would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mrs C £600 for the considerable distress, upset and worry caused to her by the 
significant fall in value of her investment over a sustained period of time, and the 
changes she needed to make to her income sources during the fund suspension.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Facet deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs C how much has been taken off. Facet should give Mrs C a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs C asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income 
Total 
Return 
IndexDate of 
transfer to 
Facet 
investment 
fundsDate of 
my final 
decision8% simple per year 
from final decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving Mrs Cs 
acceptance)Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. Facet 
should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. The amount Facet pays should be included in the actual value before 
compensation is calculated.
If Facet is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Facet may require that Mrs C provides an 
undertaking to pay Facet any amount she may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Facet will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Facet 
totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
 
Mrs C wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs C's circumstances and risk attitude
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a 
financial business to pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that 
I consider appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may 
recommend the business to pay the balance.Facet Investment Management Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mrs C in a 
clear, simple format.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Facet Investment Management Ltd 
should pay Mrs C the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 
(including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the amount set 
out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that Facet Investment Management Ltd pays Mrs C the balance 
plus any interest on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Facet 
Investment Management Ltd. It is unlikely that Mrs C can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mrs C may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
If Facet Investment Management Ltd does not pay the recommended amount, then any 
portfolio currently illiquid should be retained by Mrs C. This is until any future benefit that she 
may receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by Facet Investment 
Management Ltd (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out 
above.
Facet Investment Management Ltd may request an undertaking from Mrs C that either she 
repays to Facet Investment Management Ltd any amount Mrs C may receive from the 
portfolio thereafter or if possible, transfers the portfolio to Facet at that point.
Mrs C should be aware that any such amount would be paid into her pension plan so she 
may have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman