DRN-2272399
The complaint
Mr R complains that a finance agreement he had with Shawbrook Bank Limited 
(Shawbrook) was misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Shawbrook, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant legislation says that the finance agreement should not have been 
misrepresented to Mr R. If it was, and if that misrepresentation led him to enter an 
agreement he wouldnt otherwise have entered into, then Id ask Shawbrook to take some 
action. The relevant legislation also says that that, in certain circumstances, the finance 
provider is responsible for what is said by the credit broker before the consumer takes out 
the credit agreement. Im satisfied that those circumstances apply here as Mr R is 
complaining about the boiler company not telling him about the option fee.
I understand that the agreement did list the option fee on the front page of the agreement, 
but Im persuaded that its most likely it wasnt adequately drawn to Mr Rs attention 
because:
Mr R has provided evidence that he had the money available to pay for the boiler 
outright. Whilst I understand he may have wished to retain this cash, the fact he had 
the money supports his argument that he could and would have paid had he known 
the agreement would cost more than was being proposed;
Mr R complained as soon as he found out about the option fee. I think that suggests 
it was a surprise to him;
Im persuaded Mr R signed the finance deal whilst on the phone to Shawbrook and 
therefore had a matter of minutes to review the agreement. I dont think Shawbrook 
brought his attention to the option fee during this call;
Shawbrook have not supplied a signed copy of the partner checklist to demonstrate 
the option fee was explained to Mr R by the boiler company;
So, I think its most likely this finance agreement was misrepresented to Mr R and I think, 
given the fact he had the finance available, its likely if he had known about the option fee he 
would not have proceeded with the agreement.
Putting things right
In those circumstances Shawbrook should put Mr R back in the position he would have been 
in if the misrepresentation hadnt taken place. Its clear it would make no sense to remove 
the boiler, but I dont think thats necessary. I think its likely Mr R would have proceeded to 
have the boiler fitted anyway but would most probably have paid for the work in cash.
So, that leaves the option fee to be refunded to Mr R in settlement of this complaint and, as 
hes been deprived of that money, Shawbrook should add 8% simple interest to that refund.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Shawbrook Bank Limited to:
refund Mr Rs £70 option fee and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from 
the date of payment to the date this complaint is settled.
record the agreement as settled on the date Mr R made the £2,400 payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman