DRN-4145053
The complaint
V, a limited company, complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has declined a claim it
made under its property owners commercial insurance policy.
What happened
V has a commercial property owners insurance policy with Aviva to cover a block of three
flats. This complaint has been brought to this service on behalf of V by one of its directors.
V made a claim to Aviva after a pillar collapsed on the perimeter wall of the property covered
under Vs policy.
Ultimately Aviva declined the claim. They said they noted there were strong winds at the
time, but they didnt think this was the dominant cause of damage. Aviva also considered the
claim under the accidental damage section of Vs policy, but they said an exclusion meant
there was no accidental damage cover either.
Unhappy with Avivas position, V approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint in part. She said she
didnt think there were storm conditions at the time, so she said Aviva hadnt acted unfairly
by declining the claim on this basis. However, the investigator said that Aviva hadnt shown
the exclusion under accidental damage applied, so she said they should reconsider the
claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
Aviva didnt agree. And V maintained it was storm related damage. As an agreement
couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional 
decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings prior to 
reaching my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im issuing a provisional decision. Im minded to reach a different 
outcome to our investigator, so Im issuing a provisional decision, to give both parties 
an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reach my final decision.
V made a claim to Aviva after a pillar on the perimeter wall collapsed. V says this was 
due to a storm and the pillar being hit by a branch.
Vs policy provides cover for storm damage and falling trees as different insured 
events. So, one could occur separately to the other, e.g. a claim for falling tree 
damage could be covered without storm conditions, and likewise storm damage 
could be covered even if there wasnt impact damage.
Therefore, Ive considered each separately to provisionally decide whether V has a 
valid storm, or falling trees, claim under its policy. Ive also considered whether 
accidental damage cover would apply.
Storm damage
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont 
succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
Were there storm conditions?
When our investigator considered the complaint, she said there werent storm 
conditions at the time, and she said that Aviva hadnt acted unfairly by declining the 
claim on this basis. However, Avivas position on this wasnt as the investigator 
outlined.
Aviva actually said they recognised there were strong winds at the time of loss, so 
they didnt decline the claim on the basis there wasnt a storm at the time.
Ive also seen the weather records our investigator relied on when she said there 
wasnt a storm, however it appears she input the incorrect date (some three months 
after the loss date) when running her own checks.
As I say, Aviva doesnt dispute there were storm conditions. But for completeness, 
Ive also checked the weather records myself for the time. And this includes closer 
weather stations than Aviva relied on, and whilst not in dispute by Aviva, I think there 
were storm conditions at the time. So, Ive gone on to consider the next two 
questions.
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
The pillar on the perimeter wall collapsed. Severe winds could cause a pillar or wall 
to collapse in the right conditions and right circumstances. Therefore, this could be 
storm type damage. Ive considered impact damage separately below.Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
Aviva says the pillar in question was suffering from pre-existing issues, and they say 
it was this that was the dominant cause of the collapse, and the pre-existing issue 
with it was highlighted by the weather at the time. V says that the pillar was in good 
condition, and if it wasnt for the storm and impact damage from a branch, it wouldnt 
have collapsed, so they say it is ultimately storm related damage.
Ive seen the images Aviva relied on when reaching their conclusion that the wall was
suffering pre-existing issues. And Ive also checked street view images myself. A 
copy of these have also been sent to both parties.
Having considered the images, Im inclined to agree with what Aviva has concluded. 
The street view images date back to 2008. And it can be seen the condition of the 
pillar has become progressively worse over a 15-year period.
By 2018 there was a large section of brick, which was supporting the base of the 
pillar, missing which left it exposed. From this point onwards and in the following 
years, vegetation can be seen in and around that area of the pillar, along with cracks, 
which on balance would likely have compromised the pillar structurally. V has 
confirmed no maintenance was carried out to the pillar during this time either.
Vegetation can also be seen in the images V took at the time of collapse, both 
amongst the damaged bits of the pillar itself, and in the gap left behind when the 
pillar fell. And I think this, on balance, supports that the pillar had been structurally 
compromised over the years.
Whilst there may have been storm conditions at the time, given they werent overly 
severe or intense, I wouldnt expect a substantial pillar to collapse in those 
conditions, unless there was an underlying issue with it (or it was impacted by 
something  which Ive considered separately below). So, on balance, Im minded to 
conclude that whilst there was a storm on the occasion of the collapse, the storm 
itself, on its own, wasnt the dominant cause of the damage to the pillar.
Therefore, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Im not minded to conclude Aviva has acted unfairly by declining Vs claim 
for storm damage, in isolation. But V says there was impact damage due to a falling 
tree branch during the bad weather, which is a separate insured event, so Ive also 
considered that separately below.
Falling trees
As I outlined above, V made its claim for storm/falling tree branches. And Ive 
explained why I dont think the claim succeeds under the storm damage insured 
event alone. But Vs policy also covers damage caused by Falling Trees.
V has drawn diagrams of where it says tree branches fell from, which it says 
impacted the pillar causing it to collapse. But V says it doesnt have any post collapse 
images of the branches in situ at the time. The only images are of the collapsed pillar 
itself without the alleged branches visible.
Taking into account the lack of images showing the tree branches, and having 
reviewed the diagram V provided, along with wider images of the location itself, Im 
unable to establish how branches would be able to impact the pillar and cause it to 
collapse in the way that it did.I say this because the only tall trees (including the ones that V has said caused the
damage), are some distance across the road, so Im not sure how branches would be 
able to travel that distance given how far away they are from the pillar.
In addition, the trees which V says caused it are roughly a 90-degree angle to the 
collapsed pillar, slightly around a corner and up the road. And the pillar was covered 
either side by substantial bushes which also were much higher than the pillar itself. 
So, its unclear how a branch would be able to travel that distance, 
along/through/over a lengthy row of bushes and get behind the pillar to cause impact 
to it. And Im unclear how that would then cause the pillar to fall in a completely 
different direction, at a right angle, to the location of the alleged tree.
I can also see from the street view images that there is a separate tall tree directly 
across the road. But again, given the surrounding vegetation, its not clear how the 
pillar would collapse in the direction it had (towards the direction of this tree) if it was 
impacted by branches from this tree either, as they would need to go over the pillar to 
impact it from behind given the direction of collapse.
And in any event, even if I accept on balance this happened  not taking into account 
the challenges with this that Ive outlined - unless the branch was a significant size 
(which would raise further questions how it would travel that distance), I wouldnt 
expect small branches to cause a well maintained pillar to collapse, which still 
indicates a pre-existing issue with the pillar and that likely still would have been the 
dominant cause of the collapse.
I also note in correspondence with Aviva, Vs broker said:
This is assuming it was definitely a tree branch; it could have been a 
miscellaneous debris or it could have been a combination of the two. He 
didnt see it happen.
So, this also doesnt support with any certainty that a falling tree branch caused the 
pillar to collapse.
With the above in mind, Im not persuaded its been shown by V that this insured 
event occurred or caused the collapse of the pillar either.
Accidental damage
Vs policy also covers the wider insured event of accidental damage. But Aviva said 
this part of the policy wouldnt provide cover based on the following exclusion:
gradual deterioration, wear and tear, atmospheric or climatic conditions, 
normal settlement or shrinkage, domestic pets, subsidence, heave or landslip, 
pollution or contamination
Our investigator said she didnt think Aviva had shown this exclusion applied.
However, Im not minded to agree with our investigator. And this is for the same 
reasons I dont think a storm damage claim succeeds under question three outlined 
above.In summary, this is because I think the street view images support that the pillar was
suffering historic wear and gradual deterioration over time, and it was this which was 
the dominant cause of it collapsing. And as this is excluded under the policy, Im not 
minded to conclude Aviva has acted unfairly by declining the claim on this basis 
either.
Therefore, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint or direct Aviva to do anything further.
The responses to my provisional decision
Aviva responded and said they agreed with the provisional decision.
V responded to say it was a straightforward valid claim. V said it was disappointed with the 
provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision and the 
reasons why I was minded to conclude V didnt have a valid claim. 
Having done so, and as neither party has provided anything in response which would lead 
me to depart from the provisional conclusions I reached, my final decision remains the same 
as my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman