The complaint
Ms V complained about the service she received from St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc following financial advice she received.
What happened
Ms V was looking to buy a new property and she sought advice from St Jamess Place in 
respect of obtaining the necessary funds. St Jamess Place recommended that Ms V transfer 
her occupational pension, and then take the maximum tax free cash allowed and an income 
of around £35,000. The remainder of the purchase would be funded via a mortgage.
Due to delays with the mortgage Ms V wanted to obtain the remaining funds via a drawdown 
facility through the pension. I understand the necessary arrangements were made.
Ms V later complained to St Jamess Place about the service she received  including the 
time she spent dealing with the matter, communication she had with its advisor and the 
withdrawal fees that were quoted. St Jamess Place looked into the matter and issued Ms V 
with its final response to her complaint. It explained what had happened, including the 
change in the withdrawal fees that were quoted. In order to resolve the matter, St Jamess 
Place offered Ms V £17,618.91. This figure was made up of:
£15,888.91 as a refund of the withdrawal fees
£230 for her medical fees, and
£1,500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
It also agreed to waive the withdrawal fees if Ms V transferred the remaining funds in her 
Retirement Account from St. Jamess Place within six months.
Ms V signed an acceptance form agreeing to accept St Jamess offer in full and final 
settlement of her complaint.
Ms V later complained to us. She outlined what had happened and told us that she felt 
misguided and misled by St Jamess Place and that something that should have been easy 
was made difficult. She asked if we could re-visit the charges that had been misrepresented. 
She said she was ill due to the stress and felt that St Jamess Place had neglected its duty of 
care to her.
Our investigator concluded that we couldnt look into the complaint because Ms V had freely 
accepted St Jamess Places offer, which in turn meant the two parties had reached 
agreement on how the matter should be settled. Our investigator said there was nothing 
further for us to resolve, and that it would be unfair on St Jamess Place for us to investigate 
the matter when it could have reasonably thought that the matter had been finalised.
DRN-2852351Ms V thought it was unfair that we couldnt look into her complaint and she asked fo r an 
ombudsman to review the matter. She didnt feel that the offer she accepted too k all her 
issues and suffering into account as when she accepted the offer she wasn't fully aware of 
the impact the matter had had on her  its only now that things like health issues have come 
to light.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve complai nts where a consumer 
and business haven t been able to resolve things for themselves. In this case, St Jamess 
Place investigated Ms Vs complai nt and made an offer based o n what it felt wa s fair in the 
circumstances. 
As a general rule I dont investigate or decide complaints where agreement has been 
reached as to how the matte r should be settled. Thats because, as our investigator said, 
theres no outstanding dispute fo r us to resolve and its not fair on the business involved for a 
consume r to acce pt an offer in full and final settlement in one hand and to then co me to us 
asking u s to essentially increase the offer. 
Its clear here that Ms V accepted St Jamess Place s offer in full and final settlement of her 
compla int. It might be that, upon reflectio n, Ms V now fee ls the offer didnt take everything 
into accou nt and is therefore insufficient. However, I dont think th at means I should now 
investigate the complaint and decide whether or not the offe r was fa ir. St Jamess Places 
letters to Ms V clearly explained that if she didnt think its response to the complaint was fair 
and reasonable sh e had the right to refer the complaint to us.
In closing, I note that Ms V still had funds invested in the Retirement Account throug h St 
Jamess Pla ce. As part of its resolution of the complaint St Jamess Place switched off the 
ongoing advise r charge as Ms V no longer wanted to have any dealings with its advisor. This 
meant that Ms V would no longer benefit from any ongoing service the advisor could offer. It 
also means th at if Ms V wishes to transfer the remaining funds awa y from St Jamess Place 
she will need to contact an independent financial advisor. Alternatively St Jame ss Place has 
told us that it can switch the advise r charge back on and another of its advisors can contact 
Ms V in respect of the remaining funds invested.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman