DRN-2426228
The complaint
Mr A complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) plc, trading as Hitachi Personal Finance, wont 
refund to him the money that he paid for a boiler using a fixed sum loan agreement.
What happened
Mr A entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi Personal Finance, that he 
electronically signed in March 2018, to pay for a boiler. He also entered into a contract with 
the supplier which included a ten year free service plan and a ten year parts and labour 
warranty.
The supplier stopped trading so Mr A claimed a refund of the cost of the boiler from Hitachi 
Personal Finance under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said that the terms 
and conditions of the service plan made it clear that it isnt liable to carry out the servicing so 
it didnt agree to refund any money to Mr A. Mr A wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She thought that the 
information provided in the agreement was clear and that, in signing the agreement, Mr A 
had confirmed that hed read and understood it and agreed to be bound by its terms. She 
wasnt persuaded that a mistake had been made by Hitachi Personal Finance as it had 
acted in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr A has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He believes that the 
investigators recommendation is based on part of the offer terms and conditions only and 
not the full terms and conditions. He says that when the supplier breached part of the terms 
and conditions, the other parts automatically became invalid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr As complaint about Hitachi Personal Finance, I must be 
satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
for which Hitachi Personal Finance is liable and that its response to his claim under 
section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Mr As 
claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;
its clear that Mr A entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi Personal 
Finance to pay £2,500 for a boiler and that the supplier agreed to provide him with a 
ten year free service plan and a ten year parts and labour warranty;
the service plan and warranty were included in a separate contract with the supplier 
which said: If the Service Plan is part of a finance package with Hitachi Consumer 
Finance, the service plan must be paid separately directly to [the supplier] on 
completion of the installation. The Customers Service Plan is a direct contract with 
[the supplier], Hitachi Consumer Finance hold no association or liability in any 
circumstance relating to the service plan;
that contract also said: The terms and conditions overleaf apply to any contract 
between [the supplier] and the customer for the supply of work and materials by us to 
you. To protect your own interest, please read carefully before signing this order;
the supplier has stopped trading so is no longer able to provide the service plan but I 
consider it to be clear from the contract that the service plan was between the 
supplier and Mr A and that Hitachi Personal Finance had no liability for it;
I sympathise with Mr A because hes no longer receiving the benefit of the service 
plan from the supplier but Im not persuaded that Hitachi Personal Finance is liable in 
these circumstances for the suppliers breach of contract about the service plan;
I dont consider that a breach of contract by the supplier automatically causes the 
other terms of the agreement and the contract to become invalid;
the fixed sum loan agreement was used to finance Mr As purchase of a boiler  he 
has received that boiler and continues to benefit from it so, even if Hitachi Personal 
Finance was liable for the service plan, I dont consider that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to refund to Mr A the full amount of the loan;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Hitachi Personal 
Finance has acted incorrectly in its dealings with Mr A and I consider that its 
response to Mr As claim has been fair and reasonable in these circumstances; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Hitachi Personal Finance 
to refund to Mr A any of the amount that hes claimed, to pay him any other 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman