DRN-1778419
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Ms P says HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading at the time as first direct) mis-sold her the PPI. 
Ms P took out her card over the phone, then filled in a paper application where she took PPI. 
The policy covered her in case she was off sick or lost her job.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, for the following reasons:
The sale was nearly two decades ago, so understandably there isnt still a record of the 
phone calls from the time. But Ive not seen any wider problems with HSBCs sales process 
from the time, nor any evidence to show that Ms P was misled here. Ms P was given a paper 
application, which offered her the choice to take PPI or turn it down. The option to buy PPI 
was ticked, the option to turn it down was left blank, and Ms P signed the form to confirm her 
choices. So I think its most likely that HSBC made it clear Ms P didnt have to take out PPI 
and that she chose to take it  though I can understand if she no longer remembers doing so 
after so long.
Its not clear whether HSBC recommended the PPI to Ms P, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on HSBC if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Ms P, Ive assumed it did. That 
means HSBC had to check that the policy was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of 
her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, it looks like Ms P was eligible 
for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. She only had 
limited work benefits, and the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and covered her for far 
longer. So it looks like the policy couldve been useful for Ms P in her situation. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Ms P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Ms P chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have been useful for Ms P in case something 
went wrong. And so I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her 
off taking it out. 
Lastly, Ms P mentioned that she had trouble with the way HSBC administered the policy 
some years later. In this complaint, Im only considering the sale of the PPI. Ms P may be 
able to make a separate complaint to HSBC about what happened later, and may then be 
able to bring that to us as a separate case if she needs our help. 
This means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms P.But HSBC will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms P because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms P about that. Because HSBC didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
HSBC has to pay back to Ms P any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back to Ms P any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
That means HSBC should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Ms P the 
difference between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC should also pay Ms P 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms P can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms P.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Ms P any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman