DRN-3083035
The complaint
Mr B and Miss T have complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) imposed unfair terms 
on them when they wanted to port their mortgage onto a new property. They would like the 
bank to pay compensation for their financial losses and for the upset they have been 
caused.
 
What happened
Mr B and Miss T had a mortgage with BOI taken out in 2017 on a two-year fixed rate 
product.  In April 2019 Mr B and Miss T switched to a new product, a fixed rate which ran 
until 30 June 2021.  If the mortgage was redeemed before that date ,there was an early 
repayment charge (ERC) on a tapering basis  3% of the amount repaid up to 30 June 2020 
and 2% of the amount repaid up to 30 June 2021. 
In February 2020 Mr B and Miss T wanted to move to a new property and port the mortgage 
product they had with BOI. The bank, however, required them to reduce the loan-to-value 
ratio (LTV) to 75%. The reason for this was that, in the past, Mr B and Miss T had mentioned 
to BOI that they had thought about emigrating. BOI, therefore, wanted the LTV to be at the 
level its criteria demanded for a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage, even though the application was 
for a residential mortgage on the home they were going to live in.
By reducing the amount Mr B and Miss T were allowed to port onto their new property, an 
ERC would be payable as they would be repaying some of the capital, rather than porting 
the full amount onto their new property.
Mr B and Miss T were unhappy about this but felt they had no option if they wanted to move. 
They went ahead with their house move in May 2020 and paid an ERC of £688.38. They 
also had to find a 25% deposit for the new property, rather than the 10% theyd expected to 
pay. This came out of their savings. When the mortgage product expired in June 2021, Mr B 
and Miss T switched their mortgage from BOI to another lender.
BOI sent a final response letter on the complaint, rejecting it, but this was sent to Mr B and 
Miss Ts previous address. As a result, Mr B and Miss T brought their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service outside the six-month time limit in our rules. However, we 
were satisfied that we could consider the complaint, given that the error was that of BOI.
An investigator looked at what had happened. In a detailed letter dated 4 June 2021, he 
explained that he thought the complaint should be upheld. He thought BOI should refund the 
ERC Mr B and Miss T paid, together with interest at 8% per annum simple, from the date the 
ERC was paid to the date of refund. He also asked BOI to pay compensation of £500 for 
trouble and upset.
Initially, the investigator had also asked BOI to re-work Mr B and Miss Ts mortgage account, 
but they redeemed it shortly after hed issued his assessment, so the investigator didnt 
require this to be done.
Neither party agreed with the investigators assessment. Mr B and Miss T said that theyd 
had to use savings to make up the deposit on their new property. They could have earned 
far more than 8% per annum on those and think BOI should reimburse them for this as well.
The bank also disagreed, saying that Mr B and Miss T had said several times in the past that 
they were thinking of emigrating, and only told the bank otherwise once they knew about the 
LTV reduction theyd be required to make.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision on the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied the complaint should be upheld. These are my reasons.
I will explain first that an application to port a mortgage product is a new mortgage 
application. All thats being transferred onto the new mortgage is the old mortgage product. 
In all other respects, this is a fresh application, where the lender is required to assess 
whether the application meets its criteria.
There was no issue in relation to affordability of the new mortgage, or the property being 
offered as security. But BOI concluded, on the basis of past conversations, that Mr B and 
Miss T would be emigrating any time within the next six months to two years. As a result of 
this, the bank decided to restrict the LTV to that which would apply to a BTL mortgage.
I think this was an unreasonable decision for BOI to make, in the circumstances of this case. 
There is no evidence to persuade me that Mr B and Miss T had firm plans to emigrate. I 
accept their testimony that when they mentioned this to the bank, it was in the context of a 
future goal, or pipe-dream of theirs. But for the immediate future  the next few years  they 
had no actual plans to leave the UK.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that it wasnt reasonable for BOI to impose the reduction 
in the LTV on Mr B and Miss T, and that the bank should compensate them for this. Im also 
satisfied that BOIs customer service could have been better, and that Mr B and Miss T were 
caused upset and inconvenience, for which they should also be compensated.
  
Putting things right
Ive looked at what Mr B and Miss T have said about their losses. They had to find the 
balance of the deposit for their new property from their savings. They argue that they could 
have earned far more than 8% per annum on this if it had remained in Miss Ts stocks and 
shares ISA.  I appreciate the money is no longer available for Mr B and Miss T to use, but 
Im not persuaded that theyve have suffered a financial loss. From what theyve told us, 
theyd have kept the money in Miss Ts ISA, rather than spending it.
But instead of being invested in the ISA, the money was invested in their new property, 
Online data suggests that the property has increased in value by 48% since Mr B and Miss T 
purchased it in May 2020. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that their return on the money 
they put into the property is greater than if it had been left in Miss Ts ISA.
To settle the complaint I require Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to do the following:
refund the ERC of £688.38 to Mr B and Miss T;pay interest at 8% per annum simple on the ERC from the date of payment to the date of 
refund;*
pay compensation of £500 for trouble and upset.
* If Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from any interest, it should tell Mr B and Miss T how much it has taken 
off. Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should also give Mr B and Miss T a tax deduction certificate if 
requested, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this compliant. In full and final settlement, I direct Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc to pay the redress set out above. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman