DRN-2795079
The complaint
Miss B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited sent a copy of her final response to 
another customer which had details of her critical illness claim. Miss B says this has caused 
her a lot of stress and anxiety and wants Aviva to increase its offer of £500 compensation. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Aviva had explained 
how the breach occurred and what steps it had taken to make sure this didnt happen again. 
He felt the £500 Aviva offered was fair and considered the stress Miss B had suffered and 
her current circumstances. 
Miss B didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said Aviva hasnt 
considered the stress its error caused her, at a time when she is suffering physically 
following a stroke. Miss B says her illness is extremely private, it concerns her how this 
mistake happened and that her details have been sent to another party. Miss B said she 
thinks Aviva should pay her 10% of the sum assured of her critical illness policy - £7,500.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Miss B feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Firstly, I was sorry to hear about Miss Bs stroke. I hope she continues to make a recovery. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
The investigator has correctly mentioned we dont have the power to make Aviva change its 
practices. And this service doesnt have the power to punish Aviva or ask it to change its 
polices concerning data protection. That would be the role of the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO). Our role is to decide whether the offer from Aviva is fair and reasonable.
Ive carefully considered what both Miss B and Aviva have said here. I can understand why 
Miss B is concerned with Avivas handling of her personal information. Miss B says that 
finding out her information had been sent to a third party has caused considerable stress 
and anxiety at a time when she was already not very well. 
Im very sorry to hear this. I accept its always troubling to hear your personal documentation 
and information has been sent to a stranger. But I need to consider whether Avivas offer is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances and in line with awards this service would make in 
similar cases. 
Having done so, Im satisfied it is. Although I understand the reasons Miss B is stressed and 
anxious, I note Aviva has explained how the letter was sent to the wrong e-mail address, 
spoken to the third party who received it and confirmed the final response would be 
destroyed. And I believe the offer it has made shows that it has taken this complaint 
seriously and considered the impact this has had on her personally. So, I believe Avivas 
offer to pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused is fair.
So, I wont be asking it to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman