DRN-3084631
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc changed the statement date for his credit card 
account.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr G noticed that the statement date for his credit card had changed. This then 
impacted the date the monthly payment was due which caused him some inconvenience.
Mr G complained to HSBC who explained that statements are produced on cycles and they 
couldnt guarantee it would be done on the same date each month. 
Remaining unhappy, saying that statements had always been produced on the first working 
day of the month for many years, Mr G brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They thought that HSBC hadnt acted unfairly as 
there is nothing in the terms and conditions saying that the statement will be produced on a 
certain date.
Mr G was unhappy with this explanation saying the statements had been produced in the 
same way since 2006. He also said that hed suffered a financial loss because he had to 
make the monthly payment at a different time. To do this he withdrew funds from another 
account where he lost interest. Because of this the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has provided a lot of information about his complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr G that Ive read an considered everything 
hes provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised what happened which 
reflects the informal nature of our service.
When dealing with our investigator Mr G made clear that his reason for complaint was that 
HSBC changed statement dates after more than 15 years of consistently generating them on 
1st working day without prior warning. 
Having looked at all the information Ive no reason to doubt that the statements were 
produced on the 1st working day of the month for a very long time. Its also clear to me that 
the change in date caused Mr G some problems as he had to withdraw money from another 
account which means he has lost interest. And it also seems that HSBC didnt tell Mr G of 
any change in statement date.
However all of that doesnt necessarily mean that HSBC has done anything wrong.
HSBC have explained that statements are produced in cycles. Factors such as weekends, 
bank holidays and the number of days in the month can affect the date of statement 
production. Also the cycle doesnt exactly fit into the 365 calendar days in a year. All of this 
together means that there will be differences in the dates that statements are produced. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account and theres no mention of dates upon 
which statements will be produced. 
The terms do say Well give you a statement each month showing the minimum payment 
youll need to pay for that month which is what happened, and what has always happened. 
They also say When you need to pay .. this will normally be 25 days from your statement 
date and Mr G was given 25 days from the statement dates in which to pay. 
So looking at the terms and conditions of the account, and how HSBC explain the statement 
cycle works, I dont think HSBC have made any errors when producing the statements. 
Mr G is unhappy that HSBC told him that nothing had changed with his account, when he 
feels it had because the statement date had changed. It seems to me that what HSBC 
meant was that the cycle upon which Mr Gs statement was produced hadnt changed. But, 
for the reasons Ive explained, the date of the statement might change. And Ive not seen 
any evidence to show that the cycle of Mr Gs statement changed. But I can see why Mr G 
was upset when the date changed seemingly unexpectedly.
I think its also important to say that even if I thought HSBC did purposefully change the 
statement dates, and I dont think they did, I still wouldnt be saying they did anything wrong. 
I know Mr G had an expectation of the statement being produced on the 1st working day of 
the month, but theres nothing in the terms and conditions to say that the statement dates 
must remain the same.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied HSBC treated Mr G fairly 
and reasonably, and in line with terms and conditions, when issuing statements on his 
account. Thats not to say that Mr G hasnt been affected by what happened; as its clear he 
has. But I dont think this is because of any errors made by HSBC.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman