DRN-4130597
The complaint
Miss P has complained about her car insurance broker ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE 
SERVICES LIMITED (Atlanta) because of charges it made to her when she changed her 
mind about taking cover via it.
What happened
Miss P arranged cover via Atlanta on a Friday. But she changed her mind. She wasnt able 
to get through to Atlanta to cancel the cover until Monday. She was told that although she 
was within the cooling off period for cancelling there was a £125 non-refundable charge on 
the policy. It was noted she had paid a £78 deposit. Atlanta said it would keep that but would 
waive the difference outstanding (between it and the non-refundable sum). Miss P wasnt 
happy and complained. She also did a charge back on her bank to ensure the £78.00 was 
refunded to her. Atlanta subsequently demanded re-payment of the £78. 
Our Investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint. But upon review he told Atlanta that it 
hadnt been clear enough with Miss P during the policy application regarding the £125 
charge. He felt, if it had been clearer, Miss P wouldnt have gone ahead with the policy. So 
he said it should waive the £78. 
Miss P was happy with that outcome. Atlanta said it didnt agree. It said the non-refundable 
charge was referenced during the application and within the policy terms which the applicant 
had to agree theyd read. So it wasnt prepared to waive the £78. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the sales process. As part of a section entitled IMPORTANT INFORMATION 
ABOUT YOUR POLICY, there is reference to a non-refundable charge of £125 being 
applicable. But having seen the layout I think that it would be easy to miss this. The applicant 
then agrees and a quote is generated and it is here they are given a link to the policy terms. 
That is in another section entitled IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT YOUR POLICY  
and the non-refundable charge is not detailed specifically in this part. There are links, as 
mentioned, to policy documents, but no direction is given to read these. Although it seems 
that, having clicked again, the prospective policyholder has to agree they have read the 
terms. The charge is included within the policy terms. But there is no warning on this last 
section of the application that, in accepting the quote, the applicant will be opening 
themselves to a certain charge of £125, despite any cooling off period they may also have in 
which to think about whether they really want the cover. 
Im mindful that £125 is not a small sum. And that there is a lot to take in and remember for 
any prospective policyholder when arranging cover. I think a charge like this has to be very 
clearly highlighted if Atlanta wants to reasonably be able to keep that sum, or any part of it, 
when the policy is cancelled. Given the application details shown here, I think Atlanta did not 
clearly highlight this charge to Miss P.  
I see Miss P changed her mind about wanting this cover very quickly. Im satisfied that if a 
non-refundable charge of £125, had been drawn to her attention when accepting the quote, 
she wouldnt have accepted it in the first place. I think it would be unfair for Atlanta to chase 
Miss P for the sum of £78 which it views as the outstanding part of the £125 non-refundable 
charge. I understand that Atlanta placed a hold on its debt collection activity pending the 
outcome of this complaint. It should now formally cease that activity, marking Miss Ps record 
to show that £78, indeed the £125 charge in full, has been waived. 
Putting things right
I require Atlanta to mark Miss Ps file to show she owes it nothing, that the £78, indeed the 
£125 non-refundable charge in full, has been waived.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED to provide 
the redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman