DRN-2715837
The complaint
Mr F complains that Funding Circle Ltd has unfairly introduced a transfer payment on his
crowdfunding account. He also complains about changes made to the way in which he is
able to sell his investments to other investors.
What happened
Mr F opened a loan-based crowdfunding account with Funding Circle in April 2018. Funding
Circles platform allows investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in return for
interest payments. An investor agrees to lend a proportion of the total loan a borrower is
looking to borrow, and in return an investor receives interest on their loan part. At the time of
Mr Fs complaint, Funding Circle provided a secondary market whereby investors could
access their funds early by selling their loan parts to other investors.
Mr F raised a complaint with Funding Circle as he was unhappy it was introducing a new
transfer payment in December 2019, which would apply to loan parts he currently had for
sale on the secondary market. This 1.25% transfer payment applied to the sale value of all
loan parts sold on the secondary market and acted as a discount to investors who bought
the individual loan parts. He said Funding Circle had previously advertised that there was no
fee for selling loan parts on the secondary market and so it was unfair to introduce one now.
Mr F was also unhappy that as part of the changes, Funding Circle replaced its queuing
system with a selling tool whereby investors requesting to access their funds early would join
a pool and would be able to transfer loan parts on a rolling basis. He said hes already been
waiting in the queue for some time and so it wouldnt be fair for him to have to sell through
the new tool.
Funding Circle didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. In summary it said:
The ability and time taken to sell loan parts on the secondary market is not, and has 
never been, guaranteed. While the secondary market provides an option for those 
investors who wish to access their funds early, it has always taken care to explain 
that the time to sell is dependent on demand from other investors.
Its terms and conditions state that sale requests that are not successful within 120 
days will be delisted from the secondary market. However, it paused this delisting 
process while it conducted its secondary market review.
It acknowledged that the sales queue had increased, and that the 1.25% transfer 
payment was introduced to help reduce it.
It clarified that this isnt a fee that Funding Circle receives and instead is a payment 
made to the buyers of the loan parts.
Its not a mandatory payment and is only triggered if an investor decides to exit their 
investment before the maturity date of the loans. So Mr F could access his funds 
whilst avoiding paying this transfer fee if he switched off his lending facility and 
withdrew his monthly repayments on his loan parts.
Its confident the changes were fair and in the best interests of the vast majority of 
investors. And the changes would provide an improved overall service, as investors 
selling loan parts would begin to receive some funds back faster and more regularly.
Its terms and conditions allow it to make general product and service changes 
without Mr Fs consent, but these changes were communicated clearly with fair notice 
given.
Mr F didnt accept this and so he brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Fs complaint but didnt think Funding Circle had
done anything wrong. In short, she said:
The terms and conditions allow Funding Circle to make amendments and it had given 
enough notice to Mr F of the changes. 
Funding Circle has a regulatory requirement to ensure the price offered for loans sold 
on the secondary market is fair and appropriate.
Market conditions had become quite challenging as demand from buying investors 
had slumped. And queues to sell loan parts on the secondary market were getting 
longer. As a result of this, the perceived risk to potential buying investors wouldve 
also been increased as their ability to exit lending agreements early wouldve also 
been compromised or delayed.
The transfer payment is not a charge that Funding Circle receives  instead it acts as 
a discount to potential buyers. So she was satisfied this was a price adjustment 
rather than a fee.
There was no guarantee that Mr F would have sold all his loan parts if the changes 
werent made and he had the option to take the loan parts out of the sales queue if 
he wasnt happy with the changes.
Mr F didnt accept our investigators opinion. He said it wasnt fair for Funding Circle to start
charging him the transfer payment and it wasnt what he signed up for. He was also unhappy
that he had been taken out of the queue just as he says he was about to reach the top.
And so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021, explaining why I didnt intend to uphold
this complaint. I include this below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Funding Circle sent Mr F an email in October 2019 explaining it was introducing the
transfer payment, which would apply from 2 December 2019. The email also explained that
Funding Circle would be updating its terms and conditions to reflect this.
The new terms and conditions explained:
10.8 When a Loan Part is transferred to another Investor on the secondary market,
a Transfer Payment will be deducted from the proceeds of the sale of that Loan Part,
to the benefit of the purchasing Investor.
Funding Circle says it was able to make this change as there was the following term in its
previous terms and conditions:
16.1. We may make changes to these Investor Terms and Conditions from time to
time without your consent for any of the following reasons:
[...]
to make changes to the products or services we offer or provide to you, to
introduce new products or services or to withdraw products or services weno longer offer; 
This type of term is known as a variation clause and its common practice for financial
businesses to include these in its terms and conditions. I understand that Mr F doesnt
think it was fair for Funding Circle to introduce the transfer payment by way of this variation
clause. However, its not my role to determine if Funding Circle were legally able to include a
clause like this in its terms and conditions. That would be something for a Court to decide.
However, under the ombudsmans terms of reference contained in section 228 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, I can look beyond the strict terms and conditions
to decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
I understand that Mr F feels quite strongly that the transfer payment Funding Circle has
introduced is a fee, which is to his detriment when selling his loan parts on the
secondary market. However, I dont agree that the transfer payment is a fee. Instead Id
consider it to be a re-pricing instrument applied to loans which are sold on the secondary
market. I say this as Funding Circle has confirmed it doesnt receive any money from
the transfer payment. Instead its paid directly to investors who purchase the individual
loan parts on the secondary market. Acting as discount incentive to these buyers.
In June 2019 the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), published its policy
statement on Loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
Feedback to CP18/20 and final rules. In this, the FCA provided clarity around when and how
often crowdfunding platforms should re-price loans. It implemented this way of introducing
new rules into COBS which came into force in December 2019.
COBS 18.12.16 R explains that:
Where a firm determines the price of a P2P agreement it must review the valuation
of each P2P agreement in at least the following circumstances:
[]
(4) where the firm is facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of
the P2P agreement.
And COBS 18.12.17 R goes on to explain that:
Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is facilitating an exit for a
lender before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm must ensure that the
price offered for exiting the P2P agreement is fair and appropriate.
The FCA added that this is a non-exhaustive list as the frequency of re-pricing will depend
on a platforms business model. It is therefore for each individual platform to determine in
light of its business model and the offer it is making to investors.
In Mr Fs case, Funding Circle is facilitating an exit for him by way of selling his loan
parts on the secondary market prior to them maturing. So its clear that Funding Circle has a
regulatory requirement to ensure that the price for Mr Fs loan parts are fair and
appropriate on the secondary market.
Funding Circle has applied a blanket transfer payment of 1.25% to all loans which are sold
by way of the secondary market. So in order to determine whether this is fair and
appropriate, its important to understand what considerations Funding Circle made before
introducing this.
Funding Circle has provided our service with information regarding it considerations,
including information which was shared with the FCA before making the changes. Funding
Circles considerations included:The interests of all those who use their platform, including those looking to sell loan 
parts, those who may do so in the future, and the investors who buy the loan parts.
The payments, discounts and fees applied by other crowdfunding platforms  the 
1.25% transfer payment aligns Funding Circle with other lending platforms in the 
market.
The impact of implementing a transfer payment and selling tool would have on both 
the buyer and seller of loan parts on the secondary market.
As well as these considerations, its apparent from both Mr Fs complaint points and Funding
Circles own admissions, that sales queues on the secondary market were increasing and it
was taking much longer than anticipated for investors to sell their loan parts in this way. And
the introduction of the transfer payment, along with the new selling tool, are clearly intended
to combat these queues and to reduce the time investors, such as Mr F, must wait in order
to sell their loan parts on the secondary market.
Funding Circle has explained that these longer timeframes were due to several factors,
including increasing uncertainty at a macro-economic level - impacting both the amounts
being invested and the amounts being withdrawn on the platform. Also, that results
published to the market alongside growth forecasts in July 2019 prompted an increase in
loan parts sale requests. So although the risk profile of the loan parts hadnt changed, there
was clearly a shift in investors perceived risk. And this uncertainty in the market is an
important consideration for Funding Circle re-pricing Mr Fs loan parts. I say this as
Funding Circle must ensure that the price offered for the loan parts are fair and appropriate
not only to Mr F, but also to the investors who intend to purchase them from him. It follows
that if the loan parts are perceived to be riskier due to overall market conditions, then
Funding Circle must ensure the price offered reflects this.
Its also important to consider Mr F doesnt have to sell his loan parts on the secondary
market if he doesnt want to incur the transfer payment. As Funding Circle has explained,
the transfer payment is only triggered if Mr F decides to exit from his investment before
the maturity date of the loans. So he is able to avoid the transfer payment by cancelling any
requests to transfer loan parts; switching off the reinvestment option; keeping the loan parts
until they mature and withdrawing his monthly repayments.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Fs concerns around changing the process for selling after hed
already been in the queue for some time, the previous terms and conditions didnt detail how
the secondary market would work, or how loans would be priced on the secondary market.
As previously mentioned, clearly queues were building and Mr F himself had raised
concerns about wait times and so I think it was fair for Funding Circle to take action.
Furthermore, there was no guarantee when, or if, Mr Fs loan parts would have sold under
the previous process. Funding Circle makes it clear in its terms and conditions that:
10.6. There is no guarantee that your Loan Parts will be transferred, nor any
assurance as to how long it may take to do so."
Taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied that it was fair for Funding Circle to re-price
Mr Fs loan parts on the secondary market. It appropriately considered the impact this would
have on Mr F before implementing the transfer payment and new selling tool. Im also
satisfied Funding Circle gave Mr F reasonable notice, as well as the option to keep his
investments without incurring the transfer payment.
Responses to my provisional decision
Funding Circle didnt respond to my provisional decision, but Mr F did. He said Funding Circle hadnt acted fairly by suddenly changing what it would charge him for selling on the 
secondary market.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs response is wholly regarding his concerns around the fairness of the transfer 
payment. I explained why it was fair for Funding Circle to introduce the transfer payment in 
my provisional decision. I dont intend to repeat the findings I made in my provisional 
decision  they are set out above and I dont consider the information Mr F has provided in 
response to that provisional decision makes a material difference to what Ive previously 
said. 
As there is no new information or evidence that has been submitted or come to light, theres 
no reason for me to change the findings I previously set out.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint
against Funding Circle Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman