DRN-3036656
The complaint
Ms H, a solicitor, has complained on behalf of Mr G about the settlement offered to him by 
Covea Insurance plc after he made a claim under his home insurance policy for damage 
caused by an attempted burglary.
What happened
Mr G made a claim to Covea after his doors and windows were badly damaged during an 
attempted burglary in January 2019.
According to Mr G there are 14 large aluminium windows/bi-fold doors taking up most of the 
back of his house which was designed by a local architect. He said the doors and windows 
were supplied by an overseas company which no longer manufactures them.
At first Covea said Mr G should find replacements himself. He told Covea hed found a 
supplier that could make replacements that looked, functioned and used the same fitment 
method as his existing ones at a cost in excess of £80,000.
In April 2019 Covea said its supplier could now offer aluminium doors and windows. It 
supplier carried out an on-site inspection at the end of May. Mr G said he was told by the 
supplier that it couldnt manufacture anything remotely similar to what he had. He said he 
felt pressured into allowing the supplier to send him samples. After considering the samples 
Mr G told Covea they were too different from what he had in many respects.
Covea requested paperwork from the installation of the original doors and windows about 
eight years before. It said it couldnt verify that original doors and windows had been 
supplied by the company named by Mr G. It said the replacements offered by its supplier 
were equivalent to what Mr G had and cost considerably less than the ones he wanted. 
Mr Gs solicitor referred his complaint about the doors and windows to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold it. She thought Covea had acted fairly in providing a reasonable 
match for the existing doors and windows.
As Mr G didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs home insurance policy like most similar policies is a policy of indemnity. That means 
it aims to put the policyholder back in the position they were in just before the loss or 
damage happened. Taken literally, that means putting them back in the exact same position. 
The insurer should usually try to do that. But sometimes its simply not possible. And for 
some policyholders it doesnt need to be exactly the same  a reasonable settlement for 
them is one that puts them into a broadly similar position to the one they were in. Since it 
appears that the original manufacturer no longer makes these doors and windows, Ill look at 
whether Covea has offered a broadly similar replacement for Mr Gs doors and windows.
When I assess a case like this, I rely on expert opinion. 
Mr G has provided evidence from his supplier that theyre sure they can make an exact 
match in every way to his existing ones using hardware and parts from the original 
manufacturer.
It said the key differences between Coveas proposed replacements and the originals were:
Different aluminium frames, thresholds and runner system;
Runners on the inside of the frames;
The external aluminium sealed units had a much thinner profile and werent flush-fitting 
like the original ones;
The handles, hinges, locking systems and rollers looked different and werent of the same 
quality; and
Covea was proposing to use a different fitment method with wooden fixing points as 
opposed to metal straps.
Covea provided evidence from a senior representative of its supplier. In summary he said:
He hadnt been able to verify that the original doors and windows had been made by the 
manufacturer quoted by Mr G;
Its proposed manufacturer was renowned in the market for aluminium products.
All currently marketed aluminium doors come with integral wheels and tracks. This has 
the benefit that moving components are not exposed to the elements and also makes the 
doors more secure as the screws are concealed.
He accepted that Coveas proposed replacement looked different but thought it was a 
high-end alternative of no lesser quality.
Fitting with metal straps was generally used in new-build properties for speed before the 
walls were plastered. Using that method for a completed property would cause major 
damage to the reveals, plaster and tiles as the existing straps would have to come out 
and new ones fitted.
The colour of the aluminium and the tint of the glass could be matched.
After our investigator delivered her view, Mr G provided us with a report from an architect 
whose expertise is said to be in glazing systems, design and installation. In summary he 
said:
Coveas proposed replacement was nothing like the original in design or visual looks;
Mr Gs proposed replacement was an exact match;
Coveas fitment method of inserting wood into the brickwork was very abnormal, 
especially taking into account the weight and size of the doors. The only secure method 
was to use metal straps. It would also involve removing all concrete flooring and pipes 
under the floor, then fitting the frames and reinstating.
Im persuaded by Coveas evidence that its replacement would be of a similar high-end 
quality to the original. Coveas suppliers proposed approach of fitting the first product by 
lining the cavities with timber to allow suitable fixing points and more importantly, changing 
its approach if that didnt work well seems sensible to me as opposed to using a method 
which would definitely cause damage to the surrounding reveal.The main objection appears to be that Coveas replacement wouldnt look exactly the same 
whereas Mr Gs supplier could achieve that, albeit at considerably greater cost. In terms of 
aesthetics it seems to me that in important respects (the colour of the aluminium and tint of 
the glass) Coveas proposed replacement would be a close match to what Mr G already has. 
Its less close in terms of the design. But that appears to be due in part to design having 
moved on in the intervening time since the originals were supplied.
Im not convinced that the extra expense in achieving an exact match visually is justified 
when the quality of Coveas replacement appears to be at least as good as the existing.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman