DRN-3958022
The complaint
Mr S complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc are holding him liable for a loan he says he
didnt apply for.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In April 2021 Hitachi processed a loan
application for £23,000 in Mr S name. The money was then paid into Mr S account with his
own bank H.
From there the money was ultimately lost to a scam. Mr S later complained to Hitachi who
said that the application was made using Mr S genuine contact details  they continued to
hold him liable for the loan.
The matter was referred to our service and one of our Investigators recommended it should
be upheld. Hitachi disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to decide. In February 
2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im considering this complaint alongside Mr S linked complaint about H. I accept that Mr S
has been the victim of a scam, but that doesnt automatically mean that Hitachi shouldnt
pursue him for the loan. Mr S told Hitachi that he wasnt aware of the loan from them. I dont
agree this is the case.
As part of his submissions on his linked complaint Mr S has provided a history of the
messages between him and the scammers. Relevant parts of those messages (from April
2021) are copied below:
Mr S: how come I have got 2 more loans in my bank account?? So all in all thats 63k I owe
out who is paying it all back? As I not got it as I have told you Chris and Shane never said it
was going to take out more loans ha said it was for setting up the thing to pay back the 25k
that I asked my bank for?? Im getting worried about this now Chris as it all comes back on
me.
Scammer: All loans are paid by us to you. We have all of the loans information and specific
payment for each one. Open anydesk. I will show you what I mean
Then the following day the conversation continues.
Scammer: Did you get the funds from Hitachi?
Mr S: Not sure
Scammer: What is your balance in your bank now, check and let me know please.
Mr S: Yes its in
Scammer: Ok can you open anydesk?
I find these messages to be persuasive evidence as they are a contemporaneous record of
what was said. I also think they make clear that Mr S himself didnt knowingly enter into the
loan agreement with Hitachi. So as Mr S wasnt party to that agreement, I dont think Hitachi
should hold him to the terms of an agreement he didnt enter into. This means he shouldnt
be charged any interest or fees and details of the loan should be removed from his credit file.
But this doesnt change the fact that Hitachi did credit Mr S account with £23,000. And I
think the above messages make equally clear that Mr S knew these were loan funds and
that the loan was in his name. This would have been supported by the documentation that
Hitachi would have sent to him at the time.
Mr S would have had the option to contact either his bank or Hitachi at the time to explain
that he didnt want the loan and to arrange the return of the funds. But rather than doing this
he knowingly paid (or agreed for) those funds to be paid towards what he believed at the
time to be a genuine investment. As such, I cant say that Mr S didnt make use of the money
Hitachi had paid into his account. And so I think it is fair and reasonable for Hitachi to still
pursue him for the loan amount of £23,000 (should they choose to do so).
Hitachi acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but didnt provide any further 
comments or evidence. Mr S didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc must:
Not pursue Mr S for more than the £23,000 principal loan amount.
Remove any record of the £23,000 loan from Mr S credit file.
If Mr S has already made repayments towards the loan, the proportion of those
repayments made up of interest, charges or fees on the loan should be returned to
Mr S. And for any such refunds, 8% simple interest (yearly) should be added
between the date Mr S made each payment and the date of reimbursement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman