DRN-3271126
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds decision not to 
consider damage to his own property caused by fire damage to his car. Advantage settled 
Mr Ws claim for damage to his car under his car insurance policy. 
All reference to the insurer Advantage in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr W bought a car insurance policy with the insurer Advantage. As he was pulling up onto 
his driveway his car caught fire and was damaged. Mr Ws property was also damaged as a 
result of the event. 
Mr W didnt have home and buildings insurance at the time. He made a claim to Advantage. 
It settled his claim as a total loss as Mr Ws car. But Advantage said the policy didnt provide 
cover for damage to Mr Ws home. So it didnt consider this part of Mr Ws claim.
Mr W complained to Advantage but it didnt uphold his complaint. So he asked us to look at 
things for him. 
Our Investigator found that Advantages policy was clear as to what it would cover. It 
provided cover in the event that Mr Ws car caused damage to a third party property only. So 
she didnt think Advantage had acted unreasonably in declining the property damage part of 
Mr Ws claim. She didnt think it unreasonable for Advantage not to list every scenario under 
which it wouldnt provide cover. 
Mr W didnt agree. He says Advantage should cover his property damage claim on the 
principle that the car fire caused damage to his property.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers dont provide cover for every eventuality, but for specified insured perils. It isnt 
unusual for an insurer to apply exclusions to the cover it offers a customer. 
Mr Ws policy with Advantage clearly sets out that it will provide cover for damage caused to 
a third party property (up to a limit)  but it doesnt provide cover for personal property 
belonging to Mr W if the damage has been caused by theft or  as in this case  fire. The 
Investigator set out a copy of the policy wording in her view so I dont intend to duplicate it 
here. I havent seen anything to suggest either party disputes what the policy says here.
Advantage suggested to Mr W that his claim might be covered under an appropriate home 
and buildings policy. But as Mr W didnt have a policy in place at the time, it isnt possible for 
him to consider this as an option. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W. And Ive no doubt it was a shocking and upsetting experience 
when his car caught fire. But I think Advantages policy clearly explains that it will not provide 
cover for the circumstances that occurred. And so I think Advantage correctly declined Mr 
Ws claim for property damage to his home under his car insurance policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman