DRN-3145995
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc has unfairly charged him interest on a 0% interest 
balance transfer credit card.
What happened
Mr S has a credit card with Santander. When he was offered a 0% balance transfer deal, he 
transferred an existing balance to that card, incurring a 3% balance transfer fee. He also 
used the card for some day-to-day transactions. Despite making a payment equivalent to the 
value of those transactions, he was charged interest. He said that he always pays the 
balance off in full each month -and he was not charged interest until he took the 0% balance 
transfer offer. 
Mr S considers that Santander hasnt given him a 0% balance transfer. He said that he 
wasnt made aware that unless he paid off the full balance, including the amount of the 
balance transfer, he would incur interest. Mr S said this was ridiculous as it meant he had 
paid the 3% transfer fee for no reason. Mr S wants Santander to refund the transfer fee and 
interest. He said if it does so he will repay the full balance.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr S didnt accept what the 
investigator said. He made a number of points, including:
Hed used the credit card for many years. The balance transfer offer came by email and 
there was no mention that he would have to stop using the card or there would be 
charges applied that had never been applied before.
He should have been made aware that the terms and conditions always meant that there 
would be interest charges because of the balance transfer. It was misleading and an 
attempt by Santander to receive interest from him.
The normal terms of the credit card dont mention 0% balances. They say that if you do 
not pay off your balance in full, payment we receive are applied to the highest interest 
bearing transactions first. It would be reasonable to assume that would be the new 
transactions as there is no interest payable on the balance transfer.
The only reason there were interest charges is because of the 0% balance transfer. 
Without the 0% balance transfer there would be no interest. That means the 0% balance 
transfer is not interest free.
I pointed out that the email from Santander with the balance transfer offer set out the correct 
position regarding the regarding existing balances and using your card for purchases after a 
balance transfer in a clear, fair and not misleading way. Mr S responded to say, in summary, 
that he accepted that. But the 0% balance transfer was mis-sold. Santander knew that he 
used the credit card for substantial purchase each month. He would therefore never have 
been able to benefit from the 0% interest rate. Mr S also believed it was mis-sold on the 
grounds Santander is charging interest when he would not have been charged but for the 
0% offer. It is therefore not interest free. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander wasnt giving Mr S advice. It wasnt required to assess whether the credit card 
was appropriate for him or look at his usage of the credit card. Rather, Santander had to give 
Mr S an explanation about the key features of the balance transfer offer in a clear, fair and 
not misleading way so that Mr S could make an informed choice what to do.
I am satisfied that the email offering Mr S the balance transfer set out the terms of the 
balance transfer in a clear, fair and not misleading way. It also included a link to Santanders 
website where there was further information  including on the position Mr S has found 
himself in. The link said, as relevant
Purchases
If you also use your card for purchases during the 0% balance transfer period, youll be 
charged interest on those purchases. Its important to clear the balance in full (including the 
balance transfer) before your next statement to avoid these interest charges.
I consider that gave Mr S sufficient information whether the balance transfer was the right 
thing for him and the consequences of continuing to use the card for purchases  including 
that interest would be applied if the full balance including the balance transfer wasnt repaid 
in full.
I dont agree it was misleading to describe the offer as a 0% balance transfer. It was 
possible to transfer a balance and not pay and interest. And Santander set out what Mr S 
needed to do to avoid interest. I appreciate Mr S might have genuinely misunderstood how 
the balance transfer offer worked. But I cant see any error by Santander or that it hasnt 
treated him fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman