DRN-3735091
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt accept the evidence she 
sent in order to cash in her half of an investment. She also complains that the investment 
was left in a volatile fund, thereby decreasing in value.
What happened
In order to claim her share of an investment Mrs E was required by Aviva to send in certain 
documentation. She sent in a partially redacted bank statement, to protect the identity of her 
clients. This wasnt acceptable to Aviva and it confirmed that it required to see further 
evidence. Aviva did subsequently accept the same redacted statement. 
Mrs Es sister had submitted evidence at the same time initially, but her evidence was 
accepted. When Mrs E was eventually paid some weeks later, her half of the investment 
was substantially less than that her sister received, and she was understandably aggrieved. 
She felt that Aviva was wrong to leave the investment in a volatile fund.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs E appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every point made by the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs E has said that her principal complaint is that the fund was left in volatile investments 
after it was known to Aviva that she had elected to receive cash. I can understand Mrs Es 
point, but Aviva did not have the authority to move the investments  either to re-invest or to 
cash without the required documentation.
Ultimately it is clear that Aviva did instruct that the funds be sold into cash without the 
required evidence, that is it used the redacted bank statement. It wasnt obliged to do this, 
but it did mean that Mrs E received the funds sooner that she otherwise might have. 
Nevertheless there was an error here  once it had accepted the documentation Aviva 
should have authorised payment. It didnt do so, and this led to a short delay. Aviva 
recognised its error and has made a late interest payment and paid compensation. I think 
that was fair. As I dont find that there have been any other errors or omissions on Avivas 
part, I dont require it to make a further payment to Mrs E.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman