DRN-2981128
The complaint
Mr C complained about an instalment loan he took out with Western Circle Ltd (trading as 
Cashfloat) and said this was unaffordable for him. 
What happened
Mr C took out a Cashfloat loan as follows:
Loan Date TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 07/11/2020 01/03/2021 5 £1,000.00 £315.99
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr C and Cashfloat told us about this loan. 
Overall, taking into account the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time and his history with the lender, our adjudicator didn't think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Cashfloat to ask Mr C for the amount of information needed 
to show the lending was unsustainable. And our adjudicator didnt think that there was 
anything in the information Mr C provided or the information Cashfloat shouldve been aware 
of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr C had told 
Cashfloat. So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.  
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. He mainly said that 
this was a substantial loan and Cashfloat should have done more checks before agreeing to 
lend  and had it done so, it would have found out about other outstanding loans with missed 
payments and gambling transactions and realised it shouldnt have lent to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Cashfloat provided Mr C with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use so it needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr C could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Cs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. 
Cashfloat says it agreed to Mr Cs application after carrying out all the proper checks. It told 
us it relied on information Mr C provided about his monthly income (which it took steps to 
verify) and his expenditure as well as information obtained from a credit reference agency. It 
also took into account statistical information based on what someone in Mr Cs particular 
situation was likely spend each month and if that suggested higher figures than Mr C had 
declared, Cashfloat used the higher figures when assessing affordability rather than relying 
on what Mr C had said.
Cashfloat says the information it recorded for Mr C showed that hed be able to comfortably 
make the loan repayments. And in these circumstances, it was reasonable to lend. 
This was Mr Cs first loan with Cashfloat. So I think Cashfloat was reasonably entitled to rely 
on information Mr C provided. Cashfloat recorded Mr Cs income as £1,400 per month. 
Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan term, and taking into account 
the information it seems Mr C told Cashfloat about his monthly income and what he was 
paying out, the repayments on this loan looked comfortably affordable for Mr C. After 
allowing for Mr C having monthly expenses of £500 (which included a loan repayment of 
£160 and £50 towards other credit commitments) Cashfloat worked out that this left Mr C 
with around £900 disposable income each month. So, especially bearing in mind that 
Cashfloat boosted the amount of Mr Cs declared monthly expenses, I think its fair to say 
that the loan monthly repayments looked like they should have been comfortably affordable 
for Mr C. 
I havent seen anything in the information that Cashfloat gathered about Mr C that makes me 
think it shouldve realised that Mr C was going to find it difficult to afford to pay this loan in a 
sustainable way.  
Im sorry that Mr C had a problem with debt and that making the loan repayments hed 
signed up to was difficult for him. I accept that in reality Mr Cs actual circumstances possibly 
werent fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the other information Cashfloat 
obtained. But its reasonable to expect that Cashfloat couldve only decided Mr Cs lending 
application based on the information it had available at the time. 
I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Cashfloat to ask Mr C to prove what he 
was declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted 
to say) about his financial circumstances. And I dont think it was unreasonable for Cashfloat 
to lend without making any more detailed enquiries into his circumstances as there wasnt 
anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr C might not be able sustainably to 
repay the loan. So I wouldnt have expected Cashfloat to have asked to see the bank 
statements that Mr C has sent us before making its lending decision. And I think the 
information it had gathered supported the lending decision it made. In these circumstances, 
I cant fairly say that Cashfloat shouldnt have provided this loan  and thats why Im not 
upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr C has said, including 
the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. I accept that the loan was for a 
significant amount. But thinking about Mr Cs overall financial situation, this suggested that a 
loan this size looked like it was affordable for Mr C based on what Cashfloat knew about his 
circumstances.
.I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
I understand that Mr C prioritised repaying this loan in order to protect his credit report. If 
Mr C would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get free 
debt advice on our website  or we can provide him with useful contact details if he gives us 
a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman