DRN-3727696
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard reduced his credit 
card limit and he is unhappy with the service he received when he queried this matter.
What happened
In 2021 Barclaycard took the decision to decrease the credit limit on Mr Ms credit card. Mr 
M complained to Barclaycard about this matter via a phone call. Mr M says in the first call he 
was promised a call back which he did not receive, he also says in a different phone call the 
member of staff of Barclaycard was rude to him. He further says he was forced to accept 
£50 compensation for this call even though he did not think it was sufficient. I also can see 
that Mr M was also credited £75 in relation to this matter after a subsequent call.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service, and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator said that Barclays were entitled to reduce his credit card limit and that he had 
listened to the phone calls that were available and he believed that the compensation that 
had already been offered was sufficient for the service Mr M received. Mr M didnt accept the 
investigators view, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. Mr M also 
clarified that his main concern is the customer service he received.
I can see that while this complaint has been awaiting a decision Mr M has raised new 
concerns about Barclays removing his current account benefits. As our investigator has 
explained he would need to direct his concerns regarding this to Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr M is mainly concerned with the customer service he received from 
Barclaycard, but for the sake of completeness I will briefly address the credit limit decrease 
as Mr M did raise this matter in his initial complaint to us.
Firstly, as we have explained, the credit limits that Barclaycard offers a customer is a 
commercial decision that it is entitled to make. Im also satisfied that the terms and 
conditions of Mr Bs account entitled Barclaycard to decrease the credit limit in the way that it 
did. 
They say:
 We set your credit limit according to your circumstances, your account usage and history, 
information from other parts of the Barclays group, information we receive from credit 
reference agencies, and any other information we think is relevant. 
Well tell you what your credit limit is when we first open your account. Well then review it 
from time to time. If we change your credit limit, well write to let you know.
Barclaycard has explained that it sent a letter out prior to the change, informing Mr M that his 
limit was going to be reduced and set out what steps he could take if he wanted to contest 
this. It has provided a template of this letter and evidence to show that Mr M was sent this 
letter. So, I find Barclaycard did nothing wrong by reviewing his account and decreasing the 
credit limit, and Im satisfied it notified Mr B of the change.
In relation to the customer service that Mr B received, I have listened to the available calls 
and I have read the notes of the calls that are unavailable. I note that Mr B is concerned that 
the call which he believes a member of staff was rude to him was not provided to us. I 
accept that we have not received all the calls that occurred between him and Barclaycard. 
That said from the way the call was described I think that we have received the one he is 
most concerned about. Mr B says he was abused during this call and that he was told that 
the call would be terminated if he did not allow the staff member to deal with his complaint, 
rather than referring his complaint to a manager. 
I have listened to this call and I agree that the member of staffs tone was not appropriate, 
and the call could have been handled better. I also can see that Mr M was talked over on 
occasion. That said I would not say that the member of staff was abusive or Mr M was 
prevented from raising a complaint. It seems as if the member of staff was trying to deal with 
a complaint that Mr M was making about not being called back and it was explained by the 
member of staff, albeit not very well, that he would be able to deal with this complaint for Mr 
M, rather than him being actually prevented from complaining in the first instance. 
Having considered all the available I accept that Mr B wouldve been upset by the service he 
received and therefore I need to consider whether the compensation that Mr B has already 
been paid is sufficient. With this in mind, having considered the impact of the matter on Mr B, 
and the overall service offered, I agree that £125 compensation is a fair way to put things 
right. 
Barclaycard has already paid Mr B this compensation. So, it follows that I dont direct it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined, Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard doesnt need to 
do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman