DRN-3891556
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, sent mail to her marital home 
despite her giving clear instructions to Halifax not to do so.
What happened
Mrs H is going through a divorce and has been the victim of domestic violence. Mrs H 
approached Halifax to apply for a mortgage but made it clear to Halifax that no mail should 
be sent to her marital home where it might be intercepted by her husband. 
Halifax arranged for all letters relating to the mortgage application to be sent to a new 
address. However, the setting up of the new address triggered the automated sending of 
letters to Mrs Hs marital address which explained that Mrs H had registered a new address 
with Halifax. Fortunately, Mrs H received the letters herself, so that they werent seen by her 
husband. But Mrs H wasnt happy with what had happened, and so she raised a complaint.
Halifax looked at Mrs Hs complaint. They accepted the automated letters shouldnt have 
been sent to Mrs Hs marital address and they apologised to Mrs H for this. Halifax also paid 
£300 to Mrs H as compensation for any upset or trouble she may have incurred. Mrs H 
wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt the £300 already paid by Halifax 
didnt go far enough in light of the distress Mrs H had incurred and felt that Halifax should 
pay a further £200 to Mrs H  taking the total amount of compensation to £500. Mrs H 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems clear that Mrs H was caused a significant degree of unnecessary upset and 
distress by Halifax incorrectly sending letters to her marital address as they did. And I can 
understand how Mrs H might feel that even the increased compensation amount of £500 as 
recommended by our investigator might not go far enough to address what took place.
But this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law, and this means that it isnt within 
the remit of this service to fine or punish a business, or to declare that a business has 
acted in a non-regulatory or unlaw way. Such declarations would be for a regulatory body or 
a Court of Law to potentially make. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute 
resolution service with a remit thats focussed on fairness of outcome.
As such, when a business accepts it made an error, the remit of this service is focussed on 
ensuring the business takes any necessary corrective action to put the complainant back 
into the position they should fairly be in had the error never occurred, and to consider any 
compensation offered and instruct new or further compensation if its deemed fair to do so.
This also means that when this service considers matters of potential compensation, these 
considerations have to be based on what did happen, rather than what might have 
happened  given this services outcome-focussed remit, as explained above.
In this instance, Halifax dont dispute they made an error in sending the letters to Mrs Hs 
marital address that they did, and theyve explained that theyve taken the corrective steps 
necessary to mitigate against a similar error being repeated in the future.
But Mrs H was unfairly upset and worried by what happened here, and its both lucky and 
thankful that she received the letters herself and that her husband never saw them. Halifax 
have accepted and apologised to Mrs H for this, and theyve also accepted out investigators 
recommendation to increase the total compensation payable to Mrs H to £500.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered fair by one person often 
not considered as such by someone else. But given the full circumstances of this complaint, 
I do feel that the increased compensation amount of £500 as recommended by our 
investigator is a fair amount here.
In arriving at this position, Ive considered the significant distress that Mrs H incurred at the 
receipt of those letters to her marital address. But Ive also considered that, luckily, Mrs Hs 
husband didnt see the letters, which means that a potentially more awful outcome than 
which actually took place has been thankfully avoided. 
So, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mrs Hs favour, Ill only be doing so in order to 
formally confirm that Halifax must pay Mrs H a further £200, in addition to the £300 shes 
already received. I realise this might not be the outcome Mrs H was wanting, but I hope that 
shell understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Halifax must pay £200 to Mrs H, taking the total amount of compensation payable to £500.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman