DRN-1563660
The complaint
Miss B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt fairly compensated 
her for the distress and inconvenience she was caused when a technical error affected a 
transfer she was looking to make from an account she holds with it.
What happened
In November 2019, Miss Bs debit card was declined when she was making a payment. 
Miss B had transferred money across from her NatWest savings account to cover the 
transaction, but after two failed attempts, it seemed the transfer hadnt reached the account 
she was looking to pay from.
Miss B called NatWest who told her that technical issues it was experiencing meant there 
would be a delay in the transfer reaching her intended account. So Miss B transferred funds 
from a credit line company to cover the payment. The technical issues were resolved the 
same day, and Miss Bs original transfer requests were later completed.
Miss B complained to NatWest about the delay to the transfer. She said it caused her a 
considerable amount of upset, embarrassment and worry. Miss B said she had to wait 
around for a long time in a public establishment while trying to resolve the matter. And that 
she was delayed in getting to a party she had to help set up.
NatWest apologised for the inconvenience Miss B experienced because of its system issues. 
And it offered £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. It also said that on receipt 
of evidence, it would consider reimbursement of the daily interest Miss B mightve incurred, 
when transferring money from the credit line company to cover the payment in question.
Miss B didnt think the compensation was enough, so she brought her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the matter but concluded that the compensation was fair 
and so didnt ask NatWest to pay any more. Miss B disagreed with this, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute in this case, that as a result of NatWests technical problems, Miss B was 
caused a degree of trouble and upset. What Im considering, is whether the compensation 
its offered Miss B in recognition of this is fair or not.
NatWest says that Miss Bs transfer was delayed because of a technical error it experienced 
which caused an intermittent delay in payments and transfers being applied to receiving 
accounts. Its my understanding this was a bank wide issue that NatWest resolved by 
5.30pm on the same day it started.
From the information Ive seen, Miss Bs card payment of £39.40 was first declined at 
11.45am on the day of the technical issues. The credit line company then transferred an amount of £100 to her account at 12.27pm that same day, and Miss B was then able to pay 
her bill at 12.29pm. So in total, Miss B had to spend around 45 minutes sorting her finances 
so that she could cover the cost of her bill. 
Miss B says she was worried and embarrassed during this time which I understand, as she 
would likely have been concerned that the transfer hadnt reached her account. And it cant 
have been pleasant that her card was declined in a public place. Shes also said she had a 
young family member with her who was asking questions. And the delay caused her to be 
late for commitments she had later in the evening.
But the concerns about where her money was wouldve likely been alleviated when she 
spoke with NatWest who explained the situation. And while its not ideal that she had to 
source another form of credit to cover the payment she was making, the fact is, she was 
able to cover it. And in a reasonably quick timescale taking everything into consideration. Its 
my understanding the error was then sorted later that day, which meant she wouldve been 
able to pay back any money shed borrowed in a relatively quick timescale again.
So while I agree Miss B was inconvenienced by the technical issue, I think the apology from 
NatWest and the £50 compensation its already paid her, fairly recognises this. Its also 
offered to consider reimbursing the daily interest Miss B was potentially charged by the other 
credit provider as a result of the technical issue. This is also seems fair to me. So I wont be 
directing NatWest to do anything more in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that the £50 compensation thats 
already been paid to Miss B by National Westminster Bank Plc in this case is fair and 
reasonable.
On receipt of evidence from Miss B, National Westminster Bank Plc should also honour its 
offer to consider the reimbursement of the daily interest Miss B was potentially charged by 
the other credit provider as a result of the technical issue. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman