DRN-3279612
The complaint
Mrs A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) hasnt refunded credit card payments she 
says she lost to an investment scam. 
What happened
Mrs A has explained that in 2018 she received an email about an investment opportunity, 
and she decided to enter her phone number on the accompanying website so she would be 
contacted further about it. She says that shortly afterwards she was called by a very 
charming representative of Greenfields Capital, who explained the opportunity to her. 
Mrs A says she told the representative she didnt know anything about investing and 
wouldnt know what to do, and the representative reassured her that shed be guided 
through everything and helped with the process. She says, after reassuring and persuading 
her, the representative proceeded to remotely take control of her computer and look through 
her banking details; and when Mrs A explained that she didnt have any money in her current 
account to invest, the representative suggested she use her credit card. 
Mrs A says she wasnt sure about using her credit card but the representative reassured her 
that shed be able to earn the money back right away before the transactions showed on her 
credit card statement; and that they had a failsafe in place, so she wouldnt be able to lose 
the funds. Mrs A says she was also told shed be able to withdraw the funds at any time.
Mrs A made the following payments: 
Date Supplier Amount (£)
09 January 2018 GREENFIELDSCAPITAL 370.19
10 January 2018 Non-Sterling Transaction Fee 11.07
12 January 2018 GREENFIELDSCAPITAL 1,477.83
12 January 2018 GREENFIELDSCAPITAL 2,438.41
12 January 2018 GREENFIELDSCAPITAL 2,438.41
12 January 2018 GREENFIELDSCAPITAL 1,108.37
13 January 2018 Non-Sterling Transaction Fee 44.19
13 January 2018 Non-Sterling Transaction Fee 72.91
13 January 2018 Non-Sterling Transaction Fee 72.91
13 January 2018 Non-Sterling Transaction Fee 33.14
Total 8,067.43
Mrs A says that when she tried to withdraw funds, she was told that shed have to give 
certain details. The representative then reassured her that there would be no problem with 
its compliance team (behind this) and to ignore their emails. He then showed Mrs A, by 
releasing a small amount back to her credit card, that she could withdraw funds  but he 
wouldnt return all of the funds Mrs A had requested withdrawal of. 
Greenfields Capital trading screens subsequently showed all of Mrs As money had been 
lost to trades, and Mrs A came to realise she had been scammed. So she got in touch with 
HSBC to recover her lost funds through chargeback and/or section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. Ultimately, HSBC didnt refund the lost payments and so Mrs A referred her 
complaint about HSBC to us. As our investigator was unable to resolve matters informally, 
the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75)
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mrs As complaint on the 
basis that HSBC is liable to her under s.75. As a starting point, its useful to set out what s.75 
actually says:
(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 
12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any 
claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, 
shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.

(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim  
a) under a non-commercial agreement,
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item which the supplier has 
attached a cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise, there must therefore be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction;
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item to which the supplier attached a cash 
price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000.
Ill deal with each of these requirements in turn. 
First, there doesnt seem to be any dispute that a credit card account is the relevant debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement under the Act. And Im satisfied here there is nothing that 
breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  insomuch as and whilst there are three parties 
involved:
1. Mrs A (the debtor);
2. HSBC (the creditor);
3. Greenfields Capital (the supplier). 
The second consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. Transaction isnt defined by the Act, but it has generally been given a wide interpretation by 
the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of the deal. Here, Mrs A 
deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those funds on an 
investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when she wished. Each 
subsequent deposit was made as a way of Mrs A earning more profits, with a view to 
withdrawing each subsequent deposit-transaction as and when she wished. Given the 
exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there was a 
transaction for each of the deposits (which Ill call the deposit-transactions) as defined by 
the Act. 
To finance (or financed by the agreement) is also not defined under the Act. An ordinary 
definition would be to provide funds to do something. In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB 
Bank plc [2004] Miss Justice Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal 
agreed, The phrase to finance Approaching the matter in a common sense way, the 
phrase must mean provide financial accommodation in respect of A credit card issuer 
clearly provides financial accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to his purchases from 
suppliers, because he is given time to pay for his purchases under the terms of the credit 
card agreement.  
Applying this ordinary definition here, if Mrs A had not used her credit card she would have 
had to find the cash from her own resources to fund the deposit-transactions and obtain the 
investment account this supposedly entitled her to. So, its clear that the deposit-transactions 
were financed by the agreement. 
Third, the claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract must relate to the transaction. Its 
important to consider what Mrs As claim is here. Its evident from her testimony and 
correspondence that she feels she was tricked into depositing the payments with Greenfields 
Capital which had the dual purpose of:
a) stealing the deposit money; and
b) encouraging Mrs A to deposit further amounts. 
Mrs A does not believe that Greenfields Capital was operating legitimately and believes she 
was misled into thinking it was.
This claim, that Mrs A was misled into depositing funds, is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transactions. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. In this case, if Mrs A was told by Greenfields Capital matters that were factually 
untrue to trick her into the deposit-transactions, her claim would be for misrepresentation. 
Or, if Greenfields Capital made binding promises to her as part of those transactions and 
went on to breach these, that would make her claim one for breach of contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is 
the value of that deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
HSBC declined Mrs As claim under s.75 on the basis that Mrs A was paying into a binary 
options trading account, classed as a form of gambling by the UKs Gambling Commission, 
and that deposits into these types of accounts are not for the purchase of goods or services, 
but are simply the transfer of funds. I take this to mean that HSBC thinks the deposits were 
nothing more than transferring money onto another account, opened for the purpose of 
speculating with the money, rather than being payments for the purchase of goods or 
services. However, when funds are deposited onto a trading account this isnt necessarily 
just a transfer of money between accounts; the deposits may also have been made in return for something. And in this case, I am satisfied Greenfields Capital made contractual 
promises in exchange for the deposit-transactions. HSBC in its refusal to accept liability 
under s.75 hasnt quoted the Act itself. And its important to note that s.75 doesnt use the 
term purchase of goods or services nor is there anything within the Act that would exclude 
the present type of transactions.  
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that s.75 does apply to these credit card deposit-
transactions. Ill therefore go on to consider whether Mrs A has a valid claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider Mrs A has made a claim of misrepresentation by Greenfields Capital  that claim 
being that it represented to her that it was a legitimate enterprise when this was not the 
case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show a false statement of 
fact and that this induced Mrs A into entering into an agreement. 
A false statement of fact
If Im satisfied that the merchant was not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise  one 
through which Mrs A could have ever received back more money than she deposited  then 
it follows that any statements made by Greenfields Capital to the contrary are likely to be a 
misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Mrs A could make money from the platform is likely to suffice 
as entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade. And, Im satisfied, based on Mrs As account of events and the overall circumstances, 
that Greenfields Capital did state that Mrs A could make money from the trading platform. 
that induced Mrs A into entering the agreement
Again, if Greenfields Capital was essentially a scam designed to relieve investors of their 
money, rather than a legitimate service  and if Mrs A had known this  theres really little 
question: she would not have invested with Greenfields Capital. Consequently, should I be 
satisfied that Greenfields Capital wasnt a legitimate enterprise then inducement will also be 
demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Before discussing this in more detail, I should mention that Ive found Mrs As account of 
events plausible and persuasive.  
Ive noted regulators published warnings about Greenfields Capital as follows: 
On 13 March 2018 (after Mrs As payments), Superintendence of the Securities 
Market of the Republic of Panama published an alert on the International 
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) investor alerts portal  warning  
that Greenfields Capital was carrying out activities without authorisation related to the 
securities market, including business of intermediation, investment advice, 
intermediation in forex, securities investment manager, inside or from the Republic of 
Panama. On 14 April 2018 (after Mrs As payments), an alert about Premium Peak Ltd trading 
as Greenfields Capital was published by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
warning that it was offering financial services in its jurisdiction without authorisation. 
HSBC has said that these warnings arent evidence that Greenfields Capital was operating a 
scam, but merely that it wasnt regulated and customers should proceed with caution. 
However, binary options/forex traders offering services in the UK were required to be 
regulated by the FCA at the time of Mrs As payments, and Greenfields Capital wasnt. Nor 
was Greenfields Capital licensed or regulated abroad as far as Im reasonably aware. There 
are also several online reviews from victims that share very similar experiences to that of 
Mrs A.
I would also question the legitimacy of any investment broker recommending consumers use 
credit  as Greenfields Capital did here  to invest in products that could lose money. 
Next, is the refusal to allow withdrawals from the platform  again a complaint repeated 
across many complaints against similar firms. 
I note that most of the communications Mrs A had with Greenfield Markets were over the 
phone but they did have some email communication. 
On 12 January 2018, Mrs A said:
I am concerned as I do not know what to do now and if the compliance department 
are not satisfied that means that all the money that I have deposited with you is not 
safe in terms that I have no way of getting it back! I keep telling them I do not have 
what they want and they keep sending me the same emails.
In relation to which, Mrs As account manager said:
Dont worry my dear, I will fix everything with compliance. Dont even open emails 
from them. You did great one more time. Have a nice weekend.
Also, the screenshot of the Withdrawal History both parties have seen, shows a number of 
cancelled withdrawals, dated 9 January 2018, 10 January 2018, 17 January 2018 and 25 
January 2018. And I am persuaded by Mrs As submissions that this is likely to be as a result 
of Mrs As account manager engineering cancellation of the withdrawals  and that, as Mrs 
A has said, the small withdrawals he allowed (on 12 January 2018) are likely to have been 
a ploy to keep Mrs A sufficiently satisfied for the time being, to potentially induce her into 
making further deposits.  
HSBC has said withdrawals could not take place if Mrs As money had already been lost 
trading. But given Mrs As testimony (which as Ive said, I find plausible and persuasive) and 
the fact that the account manager did allow some limited withdrawals on 12 January 2018, 
I am satisfied that Mrs A did make withdrawal requests at times when she had a credit 
balance which were effectively prevented by Greenfields Capital, albeit in a way to try to 
placate her and continue the scam. Mrs A has explained that after her withdrawal requests, 
the account manager started to make trades she didnt agree with, in her view, knowing 
theyd lose, and so the account balance then dropped. So I dont find any inconsistency 
here. 
HSBC has referred to the restrictions on withdrawing bonuses contained with the bonus 
terms and conditions, but any terms relating to the withdrawal of bonuses relate to the 
withdrawal of bonuses alone, not a customers own capital payments. Mrs As complaint here is not about the withdrawal of bonuses, but about her own capital payments 
themselves. I also havent seen any restrictions within the terms and conditions relating to 
Mrs As own capital payments that persuade me Mrs As withdrawal requests were 
legitimately delayed or cancelled, as distinguished from this being a normal part of the scam 
(and a typical tactic in these types of cases) to prevent withdrawals, or to minimise them to 
keep the customer placated so they could potentially be induced into further deposits. 
Taking all of this together, I dont think its likely Greenfields Capital was operating a 
legitimate enterprise. This means that I think it made misrepresentations to Mrs A  
specifically that it was a genuine enterprise through which she could have got back more 
than her deposits from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Mrs A had known this, she 
wouldnt have deposited any money, so she was induced into the contract on the basis of 
these misrepresentations.
What damage was caused by the misrepresentation 
The legal test for consequential loss in misrepresentation, where a person has been 
fraudulently induced to enter into a transaction, is that they are entitled to recover from the 
wrongdoer all the damage directly flowing from the transaction: Smith New Court Securities 
v Scrimgeour Vickers (Asset Management) [1997] AC 254. This implies two hurdles that 
must be surmounted before any item of loss becomes recoverable from the wrongdoer:
a) The loss would not have been suffered if the relevant transaction had not been 
entered into between the parties. This is the factual but for test for causation; and
b) The loss must be the direct consequence of that transaction (whether or not it was 
foreseeable) or be the foreseeable consequence of the transaction. 
Transaction fees
The transaction fees linked to each of the deposit-transactions are somewhat straight 
forward to cover off. Had the deposit-transactions not have occurred, the transaction fees 
couldnt have occurred. The transaction fees were a direct consequence of the deposit-
transactions. So, Im satisfied Mrs As payment of the transaction fees was consequential 
loss in misrepresentation. 
Breach of contract 
Here, Mrs A deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those 
funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when she wished. 
Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied they 
were transactions (the deposit-transactions) as defined by s.75.
It follows, I think, that Greenfields Capital had contractual obligations:
a) To enable Mrs A to use the funds from her deposit-transactions on an investment 
platform; and 
b) To enable Mrs A to withdraw the funds deposited as and when she wished.
For the reasons Ive already mentioned, I dont think Mrs A was properly permitted to 
withdraw the funds from her trading account.  
It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, Mrs As loss amounts to the full 
amount of each of the deposit-transactions.
Transaction feesI need to consider how much better off Mrs A would have been if the merchant had fulfilled 
its contractual obligations to her. Applying that test to the first deposit-transaction, its clear 
that the transaction fee was not a recoverable consequence of the deposit-transaction. I say 
this because allowing Mrs A to trade on the account and withdraw the deposit as and when 
she wished would not have prevented her from having to pay the transaction fee. 
So, the transaction fees should not be held as a recoverable loss in connection with the 
breach of contract claim relating to the deposit-transactions. 
Putting things right
Ive established two grounds under which Mrs A could have recovered her deposit-
transactions: 
1. Misrepresentation: Im satisfied Mrs A has a claim for misrepresentation on the 
grounds that Greenfields Capital made a series of misrepresentations, namely that it 
was operating a legitimate enterprise and that Mrs A could access her money freely 
and earn a profit from his deposit-transactions. 
2. Breach of contract: Im satisfied Mrs A also has a claim for breach of contract as 
Greenfields Capital breached the promises to Mrs A. Namely that she would be able 
to use the funds from her deposit-transactions on an investment platform and access 
them freely  when she wished.  This provides another basis for recovery of the 
deposit-transactions. 
As a claim for misrepresentation gives the highest sum, HSBC should put Mrs A back into 
the position she would have been in had the deposit-transactions totalling £8,067.43 
(including the transaction fees) not been entered into. From this amount HSBC is entitled to 
deduct the amount Mrs A had credited back to her from Greenfields Capital. HSBC should 
also pay Mrs A interest on the refunds, from the date the payments were made until the date 
of settlement, calculated at 8% simple per year. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
pay Mrs A the total amount of deposit-transactions paid to Greenfields Capital, plus 
the accompanying transaction fees, less the amount credited back to her from 
Greenfields Capital; and
pay Mrs A interest on these amounts, from the date of the payments to the date of 
settlement, calculated at 8% simple per year. If HSBC deducts tax in relation to this 
interest element of the award, it should provide Mrs A with the appropriate tax 
deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman