DRN-3741470
The complaint
Miss D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money she didnt withdraw from 
her account.
What happened
Miss D disputes a number of cash withdrawals made from a machine located at a 
supermarket. These total £1,030. She says shes had her card in her possession and that 
even when it was replaced the withdrawals continued.
Barclays said it wouldnt be refunding this money. The withdrawals took place between July 
2021 and February 2022. Miss D had said her card was stolen but there was no point when 
it had been shown her PIN was discovered. The spending didnt match known fraud 
patterns. The withdrawals took place at a machine close to where Miss D lived.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss D had said that the 
card was in her possession during this time and no one knew her PIN. The withdrawals 
required the genuine card and PIN. Shed used this cash machine in the past and also had 
often used her card to pay for goods at the same supermarket around the time of the 
disputed payments. A fraudster wouldnt typically wait so long to take out money. And     
Miss D had accessed her mobile banking app many times during this period and this was 
likely brought to her attention earlier.
Miss D, who is represented in this complaint, didnt agree. She was the victim here. A 
detailed explanation of what happened was required. And the argument that shed used the 
same machine and supermarket before makes no sense as this was near her address and 
so she would use it. CCTV evidence should have been looked at and shed never been told 
to report this to police. The payments caused financial difficulty and overdraft charges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. Where credit is involved, as 
is the case here with an overdraft, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies and it states that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card.  
I wont be able to say exactly what happened but Im thinking about what is most likely.
All the payments in dispute were made at a cash machine. And Im satisfied would have 
been authenticated with Miss Ds genuine cards and PIN. The issue I need to decide on is 
whether she consented to them.
There are a total of 34 payments in dispute. The earliest was recorded on 3 July 2021 and 
the last on 21 February 2022. Most were between £20 to £40 and either happened in the 
morning at around 8am or in the evening at around 6pm. Having looked at Miss Ds bank 
statement I can see that on many of the days involved genuine payments were made to the 
supermarket using the card. Her account was used normally in between the disputed 
payments and included undisputed withdrawals at different cash machines. Miss D had used 
the cash machine at the supermarket before July 2021.
Ive noted from Barclays records that Miss Ds card ending in 1011 was reported as missing 
on 20 January 2022. A new card ending 5018 was issued. I dont see evidence of a fraud 
claim at that time being raised with Barclays. And this further card was reported lost on 22 
February 2022. There is no record of Miss D changing the PIN on any card until May 2022. 
All the disputed payments were made with these two cards and as Miss D says continued 
after the card had been replaced the first time. 
I know Miss D is clear she didnt use the cash machine involved and only paid for items 
using the card in the supermarket. She said she had the card with her, and no one knew the 
PIN. The difficulty with that explanation is that an unknown third party would have had to 
take and replace her card multiple times to use it without her noticing. And the card would 
have needed to be available at times for genuine payments including at the same 
supermarket. There is no explanation for how a fraudster discovered the PIN.
Any fraudster using the card in this way risked detection and would have most likely taken as 
much money as quickly as possible. The payments involved were in my view consistent with 
general spending.
The other issue is why Miss D didnt notice these payments earlier given the number of 
them. She was as our investigator says using the app. And these payments built up into a 
significant amount of money. She changed her card in January 2022 and that was a further 
opportunity to notice what had happened. She reported this fraud to Barclays when she was 
then asked to detail all the disputed payments. She received a temporary refund of £400 for 
the most recent of them but this was reversed on 24 March 2022 when Barclays had 
completed its investigation.
I can see Miss D had referred to obtaining CCTV. Thats not something Barclays would have 
been able to do as the machine wasnt on its premises. And also, CCTV isnt generally 
retained for very long. Even if it did show the person withdrawing the money wasnt Miss D it 
wouldnt necessarily resolve whether the person doing so had her consent. In any event I 
need to make my decision on what is available.
In my view the most likely explanation here is that Miss D did consent to these payments 
which could have involved her allowing someone else to use her card. For the reasons Ive 
given I think its implausible that an unknown third party would have been able to take and 
replace the cards and would make payments in this way.
I understand how much is at stake her for Miss D and her representative has referred to her 
financial position. But Im afraid Im going to disappoint her when I say that I dont have a 
reasonable basis to require Barclays to do anything more and refund the payments to her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman