DRN-2072344
The complaint
Mr Y complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc recorded adverse information on his credit file and 
declined his credit card application. 
 
What happened
Mr Y has told us he opened the account with HSBCs assistance in June 2018. No formal 
overdraft was agreed, but the account terms say HSBC may provide an unarranged 
overdraft. 
In June 2019 Mr Y was working abroad and his account became overdrawn. Mr Y has 
explained that he wasnt aware his account could go overdrawn. 
HSBC reported the overdraft information to the credit reference agencies. Later, HSBC 
declined Mr Ys credit card application due to his credit score. 
Mr Y complaint and in August 2019 HSBC agreed to remove any adverse information from 
his credit file. But in September 2019 Mr Ys account became overdrawn again after a 
payment was authorised.
After Mr Y complained, HSBC agreed to pay him a total of £75 and agreed it had given some 
incorrect information about the time it would take to amend his credit file. Mr Y subsequently 
applied for a credit card and was approved. 
Mr Y referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
HSBC had dealt with Mr Ys complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr Y asked 
to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y has explained that the unarranged overdraft aspect of his account wasnt specifically 
explained to him when it was opened. I dont doubt what Mr Y has told us about the 
circumstances of his account opening. But I have to take into account that Mr Y agreed to 
the terms before the account was opened. Ive looked at the information HSBCs account 
terms give about unarranged overdrafts to see whether it is unreasonably complex or 
unclear. But the HSBCs terms clearly set out the way the account operates, along with the 
basis on which it may approve a payment via an unarranged overdraft. Im satisfied the 
terms clearly explain that Mr Ys account could be subject to an unarranged overdraft and 
that he agreed to accept them. 
HSBC approved some debit card payments on Mr Ys account in June 2019 which took the 
balance into an unarranged overdraft. I understand that information impacted Mr Ys ability 
to secure a credit card. Hes also explained that he was declined for other credit 
commitments. I havent seen anything to show HSBC made an error by reporting the 
unarranged overdraft to the credit reference agencies as that information accurately 
reflected the account activity, so I havent found that Mr Y has been unfairly impacted. 
Mr Y says that HSBC sent letters to the wrong address and that it failed to send him 
electronic notifications about how his account was operating. There does appear to be some 
confusion over when Mr Y amended his address on HSBCs systems. And Mr Y has told us 
that a systems issue meant he didnt receive online correspondence. From the evidence Ive 
seen, I agree that HSBC didnt write to Mr Y at the right addresses in all instances. 
HSBC agreed to remove any adverse information it reported to the credit reference agencies 
up to 31 August 2019. But because of another payment HSBC approved, the account 
became overdrawn again in September 2019. HSBC went on to amend Mr Ys credit file 
again so no unarranged overdraft information remained. I think thats fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr Y says HSBCs actions led to him being declined for other credit. But hes also told us he 
hadnt previously held credit, had spent time living abroad and had moved a number of 
times. Credit providers can decide not to proceed for a range of reasons. I havent been 
persuaded that the unarranged overdraft information HSBC reported was incorrect or that I 
can safely conclude it was the sole reason Mr Y was declined for credit with other 
businesses. I note, HSBC later agreed to approve Mr Ys credit card application. 
HSBC accepts it gave Mr Y the wrong information about how long it would take to amend his 
credit file and apologised. And I agree some of the letters HSBC sent went to the wrong 
address. In total, HSBC has paid Mr Y £75. Im satisfied that HSBC has taken steps to 
amend Mr Ys credit file and that it dealt with this complaint fairly. I think the £75 it has paid 
fairly reflects the impact of any errors made on Mr Y. As Im satisfied HSBC has dealt with 
this complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman