DRN-3422665
The complaint
Mrs W complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt properly 
carry out affordability checks before it advanced her loans. Mrs W says she had to keep 
borrowing more in order to repay the loans.  
What happened
Mrs W took six loans between September 2015 and March 2017. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £100.00 25/09/2015 18/04/2016 34 £5.00
2 £200.00 18/04/2016 16/11/2016 33 £10.00
3 £100.00 13/06/2016 07/02/2017 33 £5.00
4 £300.00 16/11/2016 sold 33 £15.00
5 £100.00 07/02/2017 sold 33 £5.00
6 £200.00 16/03/2017 sold 33 £10.00
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan. So, where loans overlapped 
the cost will be greater. For example, when loans 2 and 3 were running at the same time Mrs 
Ws weekly commitment was £15. 
Mrs W had some problems repaying her final three loans and the statement of account 
provided to the Financial Ombudsman by Morses shows these loans were passed to a third 
party in November 2017. 
Morses investigated the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans and so it didnt uphold her complaint. 
Mrs Ws representative didnt agree with the outcome and referred the complaint here in 
December 2021. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt think it was wrong for Morses to 
have granted loans 1 and 2. However, the adjudicator thought loans 3 and 4 shouldnt have 
been granted because Mrs Ws total repayments due to Morses represented a significant 
portion of her declared income and therefore the payments werent likely to be sustainable. 
The adjudicator also concluded that loans 5 and 6 shouldnt have been granted because in 
his view the lending was now harmful for Mrs W. 
Morses agreed with the adjudicators recommendation to uphold loans 3  6. Morses 
explained there was an outstanding balance due and so it would use the refund to offset this. 
This would result in a payment due to Mrs W of about £30.63. 
The adjudicator contacted Mrs Ws representative to let them know Morses had agreed with 
his recommendation. But Mrs W didnt accept the offer saying Our client does not agree 
with the decision she has been given please can you proceed for a final decision.
Later on, Mrs Ws representative told us Our client states she does not agree with the 
outcome that has been given and that she could not afford to pay back the loans given in the 
end.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs W could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs 
Ws income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs W. These factors include:
Mrs W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs W.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs W could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs W was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, in particular made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ws complaint.I wont make a finding about loans 3 - 6, because Morses has already agreed that something 
went wrong when these loans were approved. For completeness, Ive included what Morses 
needs to do to put things right for Mrs W in relation to these loans at the end of this decision. 
However, Mrs W appears to be unhappy with the outcome in relation to loans 1 and 2  
given these are the loans the adjudicator didnt uphold. So instead, this decision will focus on 
the lending decision Morses made for these loans. 
Loans 1 - 2
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint about these loans, and I agree with him, 
based on the evidence that Ive seen from both Morses and Mrs W.  
For loan one Mrs W declared she had a weekly income of around £155 with outgoings of 
£103. This left around £51 per week in order to make her weekly repayment of £5. 
For loan 2 Mrs W declared she had a weekly income of £175 and her declared weekly 
expenditure was £68.Leaving just over £100 to a week to afford the combined loan 
repayments of £15 per week. 
Morses has provided copies of the application forms for these two loans, and it was aware 
that Mrs W was in receipt of benefits but that alone wouldnt be sufficient to uphold the 
complaint.  
Based on the information Mrs W declared Morses couldve been confident she was in a 
position to afford the contractual repayments she was due to make for these loans. Given 
this was in the early part of the lending relationship, I think the checks that Morses did were 
proportionate and it didnt need to do any further checks before agreeing to these loans. 
Ive also thought about that these loans overlapped but even taking into account the higher 
weekly repayments as a result of this, the loans still looked affordable. So, this doesnt 
change my mind about the checks that Morses carried out. 
Before loan 1 was granted Morses also carried out a credit check and it has provided the 
results of that search. Ive considered the results but there were no signs of any financial 
difficulties such as missed payments, defaults or anything else that may have suggested Mrs 
W was over indebted. In my view, the results wouldnt have prompted Morses to have either 
carried out further checks or to have declined Mrs Ws applications for credit. 
Overall, I think the checks Morses carried out before advancing these two loans were 
proportionate and the checks showed Morses Mrs W would be in a position afford the loan 
repayments. Im therefore not upholding Mrs Ws complaint about these loans. 
I acknowledge that Mrs W is likely to be disappointed by this outcome, but I hope my 
explanation has provided useful as to why Ive reached the conclusions that I have. 
Loan 3 - 6
As I said at the start of the decision, I wont comment further on whether Morses was right or 
wrong to approve these loans because it has already accepted that something did go wrong 
when these were advanced. So, there is nothing further for me to decide in relation to these 
loans. But for completeness, Ive outlined the compensation Morses has already agreed to pay in 
relation for these loans. 
Putting things right
Morses has already accepted that loans 3 - 6 shouldnt have been provided and Ive outlined 
below what it has already agreed to put things right for Mrs W. 
If Morses have sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs W towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs 
W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs W originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs W as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs W 
having made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any 
principal Morses may have already written-off. If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Mrs W. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then you should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs W. Morses 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off. 
E. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file in 
relation to loans 3 and 4. The overall pattern of Mrs Ws borrowing for loans 5 and 6 
means any information recorded about them is adverse, so Morses should remove 
these loans entirely from Mrs Ws credit file. Morses does not have to remove loans 5 
and 6 from Mrs Ws credit file until these have been repaid, but it should still remove 
any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should give 
Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint about loans 1 
and 2.  But Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mrs W as directed above and in line 
with what it has already agreed to do for loans 3 - 6.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman