DRN-2279692
The complaint
Mr M complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) unfairly replaced his 
mobile phone with one of a different colour following a claim under his mobile phone 
insurance.
All references to Assurant include its representatives on the claim.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr M made a claim after his mobile phone (which was black in colour) was 
damaged. The claim was accepted and Assurant sent Mr M a newer model of the same 
phone as it didnt stock the previous model. This replacement was also black. 
In October 2019, Mr M reported various issues with the replacement he had been given. 
After this was returned to Assurant, it noted that the phone was blacklisted (making it 
unusable). Following some back and forth, Assurant accepted the phone had been 
blacklisted prior to being sent to Mr M and this was a mistake on its part.
On 6 November 2019, Assurant spoke to Mr M and confirmed that it would issue a further 
replacement. During this call, the advisor told Mr M another replacement (black in colour) 
was being ordered. But due to lack of stock in the requested colour, a white model was sent 
to Mr M.
Mr M was unhappy with the colour of the replacement. Assurant said that it had fulfilled the 
claim in line with the terms and conditions by providing the final replacement, despite the 
different colour.
Our investigator considered this complaint and upheld it. She acknowledged Assurant had 
acted within the terms of the policy by providing a replacement phone in a different colour. 
But she said Assurant hadnt managed Mr Ms expectations well enough during the phone 
call in November 2019. She also felt that Assurant had provided poor service under the 
claim in issuing a blacklisted phone as a replacement in the first instance. For this reason, 
she recommended Assurant should pay Mr M £75 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr M agreed with the investigators assessment. But Assurant didnt, saying an apology was 
sufficient in the circumstances. It also said Mr M should have been aware of the policy terms 
that didnt guarantee the colour of a replacement. So, this case has been passed to me for 
an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions on this complaint as our investigator.
Ive reviewed the terms of the policy carefully and its clear to me that a replacement phone 
of the same colour isnt guaranteed. Mr M hasnt disputed this. So, Im satisfied Assurant has 
acted within its policy terms when providing him with the white replacement phone. 
But Mr Ms complaint is wider than this, and Ive been asked to consider the handling of this 
claim beyond just how it was settled.
Assurant hasnt disputed that its representative told Mr M hed be receiving a black phone 
when speaking to him in November 2019. And within this call the agent mentioned twice that 
a black model was being ordered with no caveat. So Id agree with our investigator that Mr 
Ms expectations couldve been better managed at this point. And while his policy does not 
guarantee a colour match, this wasnt the impression he was given in the call. For this 
reason I take on board why hed be disappointed when the phone arrived.
It also seems the first replacement phone Assurant sent to Mr M was blacklisted. And it 
initially had asked Mr M to have this unblocked through his network provider before agreeing 
to provide another replacement. Id consider this to be another mistake on its part in how it 
handled this claim.
Assurant has said it thinks its apology in this case should be sufficient to put things right. But 
I disagree. And Im satisfied Assurants actions in initially issuing a faulty replacement, and 
then mis-managing Mr Ms expectations wouldve been frustrating for him. As a result Im 
directing Assurant to pay Mr M £75 in compensation for its handling of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint and direct Assurant General Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr M £75 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman