DRN-1473489
The complaint
Mrs P, on behalf of herself and the estate of Mr P, says Santander UK Plc (trading at the 
time as Abbey National) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs P and the late Mr P took out a PPI policy during in 2000 to protect their existing 
mortgage repayments. The policy was in Mrs Ps sole name and gave her unemployment 
cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the
balance of probabilities. So on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and
the wider circumstances. 
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs P says she would never knowingly have taken out PPI. But the PPI was sold a couple of 
years after their mortgage completed so I think she would have known it was a separate, 
optional product. I cant know what was said during the sale but based on what we know 
about the banks sales process at the time its most likely Mr and Mrs P would have been 
given information about the policy allowing them to decide if they wanted it. They selected 
only unemployment cover for Mrs P, not the more common package of accident, sickness 
and unemployment cover - so it seems there was discussion about the type of cover they 
wanted, and they understood they had choices. Santander has supplied a copy of the 
welcome letter it sent Mrs P in 2000  had she not known shed agreed to the cover I would 
have expected her to contact the bank at this stage. The insurers records show Mrs P called 
it to discuss her level of cover in late 2000. This suggest to me she was aware she was 
insured and wanted the cover.
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Ps comments, but I also have to consider how long ago the 
sale was and how that might impact what she recalls. On balance, I think its most likely that 
it was made clear to Mr and Mrs P that they had a choice about whether to take the PPI, and 
they agreed to take it out for Mrs P.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs P, so it had a responsibility to check it was right for 
her. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable based on what shes told us about her 
circumstances at the time. The PPI would have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay, 
allowed her to protect any lump sum redundancy payment, giving increased financial stability 
at an already difficult time. 
Mrs P said they had some savings, but the PPI would have allowed them to use any savings 
to cover other living costs whilst Mrs P wasnt working, or to keep them intact for their future 
needs. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for them if Mrs P lost her job. Mrs P 
re-iterated her sick pay entitlement in response to the adjudicators view but thats not 
relevant for my analysis as she only had unemployment cover.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs P all the information they needed before
they decided to buy PPI. I dont know when it made the cost clear, but the PPI was
reasonably priced and apparently affordable. I also dont know that it pointed out the main
things the policy didnt cover. But it seems Mrs P wasnt affected by any of the
main exclusions or limitations. So I dont think better information wouldve changed their
decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs P paid on their policy  and whether 
Santander treated them unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mrs Ps policy was less than half of what Mr 
and Mrs P paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Santander has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  the commission was less than half 
the cost of the policy. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont think Santander treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and the 
estate of Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman