DRN-1922183
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited sent him text messages and other 
correspondence chasing him for payments on a loan he had cancelled. 
What happened
Mr P took out a loan in 2018 with Provident, which was repaid in full shortly after he took it 
out. An error occurred and the loan account was still showing as active on Providents 
systems. This meant in April 2019, Mr P received some text messages and an email about 
this loan. Mr P raised a complaint with Provident and it recognised there had been an error. 
In its final response, it apologised and credited £50 towards the balance of another loan     
Mr P had open with it in recognition of the trouble and upset this error had caused him. 
Provident also confirmed that the matter hadnt negatively impacted his credit report. 
But Mr P wasnt happy with the amount Provident gave him. He says at the time he was 
suffering from ill health and going through treatment for this. And he has explained this 
matter caused him considerable stress and worry. So, he brought his complaint to this 
service. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ps complaint. They thought Providents offer was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances, so they didnt ask Provident to do anymore than it 
already had. Mr P disagreed. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it has been 
passed to me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In any relationship between a consumer and a financial business, errors or dissatisfaction 
can and do arise. And when that happens, we would expect the business to treat the 
consumer fairly and resolve the complaint in a timely manner.
Ive reviewed the file and can see that Mr P was frustrated by this matter and that the 
frustration has been heightened by the fact he has already been going through a stressful 
time. Mr P became aware of the issue in April 2019 and received a final response from 
Provident in June 2019.  While I understand from Mr P he had some extremely frustrating 
phone calls, Provident did engage with him, accepted the errors and tried to put them right 
as quickly and fairly as possible. 
Provident has said it hasnt impacted Mr Ps credit file  and Mr P has confirmed that the 
negative marker he saw from Provident has now been removed. So overall, I accept Mr P 
was frustrated and inconvenienced, but I think what Provident has done to put the matter 
right is fair and reasonable given the circumstances. So, I wont be directing it to do 
anymore.
I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed by my decision  hes put time and effort into his 
complaint. But I hope I have been able to explain how and why I reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman