DRN-3309834
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the way Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco) handled her request 
for a refund in relation to a trip she paid for with her Tesco credit card. 
What happened
In November 2019 Mrs H booked a trip for her and three family members with a 
company I shall call I departing in late August 2020. The cost of trip was £7,518 and 
Mrs H paid a deposit at the time of the booking of £1,468  made up of two separate 
payments on her Tesco credit card. The remaining balance was paid by bank 
transfer from an account with another bank. 
In June 2020 Mrs H was told that the trip had been cancelled and refunds would be 
issued in due course. 
Having not received a refund from I, Mrs H asked Tesco to help her get one. It 
initially told her that it couldnt help because her contract with I contained a force 
majeure clause. It then changed its view on this and processed chargebacks for the 
two payments shed made towards the deposit on her Tesco credit card and these 
sums were successfully recovered. 
Tesco told Mrs H it couldnt help her recover the remaining sum shed paid by bank 
transfer. Then it said shed need to ask the bank she sent the transfer from to attempt 
a chargeback. Realising this was incorrect Tesco later told Mrs H that it could help by 
considering a claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). But it 
said that before it could do this it would need confirmation Mrs Hs claim with a 
bonding authority had not been successful.
Mrs H was unhappy with this because she didnt think Tesco should have asked her 
to go to the bonding authority. She said this caused unnecessary delays because the 
bonding authority had long delays in processing disputes. And she said it wasnt the 
appropriate body to claim from in any event.
In October 2020 the supplier refunded Mrs H the remaining cost of the trip directly. 
Our investigator thought Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She said Tesco had 
inappropriately asked Mrs H to pursue a claim via the bonding authority and should 
not have declined to look at her claim pending the agents findings. She asked Tesco 
to pay Mrs H £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this had caused 
her.
Tesco did not agree with the investigator. It said it was necessary to make sure that 
Mrs H was not recovering the value of the claim elsewhere before considering 
whether it would meet it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco couldnt have helped Mrs H recover the sum she paid by bank transfer from 
another bank via the chargeback process. 
Tesco was wrong however to suggest that Mrs H attempt a chargeback with that 
bank before it would look at her claim under section 75. Bank transfers cannot be 
recovered by chargeback. 
Tescos offer to pay Mrs H £50 compensation for this and for not helping her initially 
when she asked it to look into refunding the sums shed paid on her Tesco credit 
card was fair. Tesco should pay this to Mrs H if it hasnt already. 
It looks on the face of it that Mrs H may have had a valid claim under section 75 in 
respect of her trip. But seeing as shes received a full refund from I now, I do not find 
it necessary to review that matter further in this complaint.  
Mrs H has provided a screen grab of a message from a Tesco Section 75 case 
handler which said In order for us to process your claim As your funds would also 
have been ATOL and ABTA protected we would also require a letter from ATOL 
confirming why you would not be refunded under this scheme
It looks like Mrs H acted on this demand and put a claim through the relevant 
bonding authority. 
While its not unreasonable to ask Mrs H to mitigate her losses when appropriate, it 
was unreasonable for Tesco to ask her to go to the bonding authority before it would 
look at her claim. While a bonding authority can sometimes assist with disputes over 
refunds, its main function is to assist when a travel provider has gone out of 
business. And that hadnt happened here. 
Whether it was right or wrong for Tesco to subsequently insist that Mrs H provide 
evidence her claim with the bonding authority had been unsuccessful, this was a 
situation of its own making which could have been avoided if Tesco had considered 
her claim without placing unnecessary demands upon her first.  
Mrs H said having to claim via the bonding authority was inconvenient and it was 
frustrating for her that this delayed the consideration of her claim by Tesco. 
Tesco should pay Mrs H compensation of £50 to reflect this
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. To put things right Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC must pay Mrs H compensation of £50 for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused her. It should also pay her the £50 it offered her before her complaint was referred to 
this service if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman