DRN-3503232
The complaint
Mr S complains about charges for damage when he returned his car at the end of a hire 
agreement provided by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
In November 2016 Mr S acquired a new car using a hire agreement with MBFS. He took the 
agreement over a period of four years.
On 23 July 2021 the car was collected and an initial inspection was carried out.
The car was taken and a second, more detailed inspection was done on 27 July 2021. 
MBFS then sent Mr S an invoice for the following:
Damage Cost
Spare key missing £260.00
Wheel LHF spoke damaged £110.00
Wheel LHR rim damaged £110.00
Wheel RHR spoke damaged £110.00
Wheel RHF spoke damaged £110.00
Bumper front dented £260.00
Steering wheel burn £1,053.83
Door RHF dented £90.00
Mr S was unhappy with this and complained to MBFS. It issued a further invoice in 
November 2021 with the charge for the spare key and RHF door dent removed. This gave a 
total balance of £1,753.83.
MBFS issued its final response in December 2021. It said, in summary, that it was removing 
the two charges as above as the issues werent noted on the first inspection. It also clarified 
that the burn to the steering wheel was not the right description  but the wheel was 
damaged and it believed this fell outside of fair wear and tear.
MBFS said all of the other damage fell outside of fair wear and tear according to the Vehicle 
Return Standards (VRS) that Mr S had agreed to. It said a balance of £1,493.83 was 
payable.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. He said he couldnt afford 
the costs as he was on a low income due to health reasons.
When the complaint was with us, MBFS said it had made a mistake on its final response and 
the balance due was £1,753.83 as per the second invoice.
Our investigator issued an opinion explaining, in summary, that they felt the damage fell 
outside of fair wear and tear guidance.
Mr S remained unhappy with this. He said he disagreed with the entirety of the view. So, the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr S complains about charges in relation to a hire agreement. Entering into regulated hire 
contracts like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ss complaint 
about MBFS. 
Ive firstly thought about whether MBFS could charge Mr S for damage. Looking at the 
agreement he took, this says:
you must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle Return Standards
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in 
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you will 
have to pay our costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle
So, considering this, I think Mr S agreed to return the car in a condition in line with the VRS 
and he agreed to be charged if this wasnt the case. 
Ill go one to consider if the charges were fairly applied. As well as the VRS, Ive also 
considered the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guide to fair wear 
and tear. I understand MBFS are not BVRLA members, but Im happy this is a useful 
benchmark when considering whats fair and reasonable.
In relation to wheels, the VRS says the following is unacceptable:
Scuff chips and scratches exceeding 25mm
The BVRLA says:
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable
Any damage to the wheel spokes, fascia or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable
Ive looked at the photos from the inspection. For the LHF, RHR and RHF wheels, I can 
clearly see damage to the wheels spokes.
In the photos of the LHR wheel, I can clearly see damage around the outside of the rim that 
totals over 50mm.
 
It follows Im satisfied this damage falls outside of fair wear and tear.In relation to the bumper, the VRS says the following is unacceptable:
Dented bumpers and/or any dents penetrating through to the base material where painted
The BVRLA says:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per 
panel and the paint surface is not broken
Looking at the photos of the bumper, I can see a very clear and obvious area of damage. 
This appears to be a scrape/dent and this has clearly gone through the paintwork and covers 
a wide area over 100mm. 
Im satisfied this falls outside of fair wear and tear.
In relation to the steering wheel, MBFS originally said this was a burn, but later clarified it 
was general damage. 
There isnt a specific section of the VRS in relation to the steering wheel. Nor is the steering 
wheel specifically mentioned in the BVRLA guidance. So, Ive had a think about the general 
definition of fair wear and tear. The BVRLA comments on this:
Fair wear and tear should not be confused with damage, which occurs as a result of a 
specific event or series of events, such as an impact, inappropriate stowing of items, harsh 
treatment, negligent acts or omissions.
Looking at the photos of the steering wheel, I can firstly see a tear or rip in the centre. The 
upper outer section of the steering wheel appears to be discoloured, appearing rather brown 
rather than black/grey. It also appears to have an unsightly finish with a rough appearance 
and cracking. 
Thinking about things in the round here, Im satisfied the condition of the steering wheel falls 
outside of fair wear and tear.
It follows all of this that Im satisfied all of the damage MBFS are charging Mr S for falls out 
of fair wear and tear and it doesnt need to take any further action.
MBFS has explained that it made a mistake in its final response and didnt give Mr S the 
correct total figure that he owed. But, it did invoice him for the correct amount earlier. And it 
itemised the correct charges in the final response. While this would be rather frustrating for 
Mr S, I dont think MBFS needs to take any action on this point.
Finally, Im sorry to hear Mr S believes these charges arent affordable for him. Id suggest 
he contacts MBFS directly to discuss this. Id like to politely remind MBFS that it should treat 
Mr Ss situation with forbearance and due consideration.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 John Bower
Ombudsman