DRN-3356995
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC have refused to refund any of the financial losses 
that resulted after she and her husband fell victim to a safe account scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to all parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In October 2019 Mrs A and her husband (Mr A) were contacted by various individuals 
who pretended to work for their bank and/or the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
These individuals persuaded Mr and Mrs A that the money they held with various 
providers was at risk of being stolen by unscrupulous employees and needed to be 
moved to safety, while investigations took place. 
Mr and Mrs A cashed in some investments they held, moved the money to an account 
with Lloyds that had recently been opened in Mrs As name and then sent two payments, 
totalling £1,300,000, to an account Mr A had recently opened with an online currency 
exchange provider. Mr A then transferred the money on to an account held with an 
overseas bank, which was under the scammers control.
Mr and Mrs A had been warned they might lose all their money if they told anyone what 
was happening. But, on 3 November 2019, Mrs A told her son what had been going on, 
after she was led to believe that some bank employees had been arrested and their 
money would soon be returned. Her son realised the individuals whod purported to be 
bank and FCA employees were actually fraudsters. The scam was then reported to 
Lloyds.
Lloyds refused to refund the money. It said it had asked Mrs A why she was making the 
payments and had warned her about a number of scams, but she still wanted to make 
the payments. It also tried to recover the money, but the receiving bank advised that no 
funds remained.
I issued a provisional decision last month setting out why I didnt think Lloyds could have 
prevented the losses that Mrs A (and her husband) had suffered. And, as a result, why I 
couldnt fairly instruct the bank to refund any of the money. I have reproduced my provisional 
findings here (with a couple of amendments, to remove the name of third parties):
Should Lloyds have done anything differently when it allowed the account to be opened?
Lloyds says the account was opened online and it relied, to an extent, on the information it 
already held about Mrs A relating to an account shed opened with another member of the 
Lloyds Banking Group some years previously.
Mrs A has been somewhat inconsistent in her recollections about how the account was 
opened. In the original complaint she made to Lloyds she said Our recollection is that this 
was opened by [Mr A], without [Mrs As] presence, but with some underhand assistance 
from the fraudsters. And this happened after Mr A had tried, but failed, to open an account 
with Lloyds in his own name. Elsewhere she has said she knew the account was being 
opened. What is clear is that the debit card and related PIN for the account was sent to 
Mrs As address, shes confirmed receipt and that she used it to make a cash machine 
withdrawal. Shes also confirmed that she set up the online banking facility for this account 
and used it (the same day she made the first disputed payment) to make a faster payment to 
pay for a car. The Lloyds bank account details were also provided to her asset manager on 
the same day the account was opened with the instruction to send the liquidated portfolio 
proceeds to that account.
Its possible Mrs A wasnt directly involved with the account opening. But it seems to me 
more likely than not she knew the account was being opened either at the time or soon after. 
If she didnt then I would have expected her to have queried this with the bank when the 
debit card and PIN arrived. And it also seems that she had control of the account, given the 
way she subsequently used it.
Mr A and/or her husband may well have been acting under the scammers influence when 
the account was opened. But Ive seen nothing to suggest the bank acted inappropriately by 
allowing the account to be opened.
Does the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code apply to these two disputed transactions?
The Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the 
Code), which Lloyds has committed to follow, was in force at the time Mrs A made the 
disputed payments. But I dont think it applies in this case because it doesnt cover payments 
that are sent to overseas bank accounts and that is, ultimately, where the money ended up 
after Mr A received it and the point at which it left Mr and Mrs As (who were both victims of 
this scam) control.
So I cant fairly tell Lloyds to refund any of the money under the provisions of the Code. But I 
can still consider whether the bank ought otherwise to have prevented the fraud.
Should Lloyds have done anything differently when it processed the two payments?
Theres no dispute in this case that Mrs A told Lloyds to make the two payments. And, in 
broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of their account. Ive taken that into account when deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in this case. But the matter doesnt end there, Ive also taken into account the 
law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. And I consider Lloyds should, fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including money laundering, the financing of terrorism, and fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. Followed the Banking Protocol, where appropriate, for branch transactions like these.
So, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs A 
when she visited one of the banks branches to make the two CHAPS payments to her 
husbands currency exchange account. 
As Ive explained, Lloyds had an obligation to follow Mrs As instruction. And Im pleased to 
see, given the amounts Mrs A was sending, that the banks records suggest it recognised 
there might be a risk of fraud. Lloyds has provided copies of the high value checklist its staff 
completed for each payment and I note, in particular that:
These suggest Mrs A was asked why she was making the payments and told the bank 
she was moving funds in preparation for Brexit and reinvesting. 
The form instructs the staff member to review Mrs As account and look for any unusual 
activity. Mrs A received three large payments into her account around the same time 
from an asset manager, which were the proceeds of her and her husbands liquidated 
portfolio. While it might be considered unusual for such large amounts to be paid in and 
out of an account in such a short space of time and soon after account opening, I think 
this activity fits with the explanation Mrs A gave for making the payments.
Mrs A said she was moving her money in preparation for Brexit and reinvesting. And the 
branch staff who handled the first transfer says she recalled Mrs A saying she was using 
the money to buy Euros  which fits with the payments being made to a currency 
exchange provider  and this prompted the staff member to talk about a recent currency 
scam that she was aware of.
The staff member signed to confirm that a statement had been read out which explained 
there were a number of scams in operation including people claiming to be from trusted 
organisations such as the Police, HMRC and the banks fraud team. The form also told 
the staff member to ask if anyone had instructed Mrs A to make the payment and warn 
that trusted organisation would never ask Mrs A to move funds to a safe account.
Mrs A doesnt remember exactly what happened in branch but says, on each occasion, that 
the scammer told her what to say to the bank. They also rang before she went into branch to 
make the payment, told her to stay on the call and put the phone in her pocket so they could 
hear her conversation with the bank. Mrs A says she had doubts about what the scammer 
was telling her to do in the early days of the fraud, but those concerns seem to have faded 
by the time she was making the payments from her Lloyds account. The scammers seem to 
have prepared her well, so that the bank had no concerns about her demeanour. She 
provided plausible and persuasive reasons for making the payments. Furthermore, the safe 
account scam warnings which, I think, mirrored the scam she was falling victim to didnt 
manage to break the spell the scammers had woven.
In all the circumstances, even if the bank had done more  which might have included taking 
Mrs A into a room to discuss the payments and again flagging the risks relating to safe 
account scams  I dont think it wouldve made a difference. Mrs A and her husband had 
bought into the scam and firmly believed that members of staff at Lloyds and other 
organisations  some of which they had closer and more personal ties to  were acting 
inappropriately and they were helping the FCAs investigation into those individuals. 
I also think, even if the bank had challenged Mrs A further, shed likely have been able to 
think on her feet and provide more detail about the investment she was planning on making. 
This might have included calling upon, or referring to, her husband  he appears to be a highly experienced investor who had held investments for many years and also held senior 
roles within the investment industry.
Did Lloyds do enough after it was notified about the scam?
The authorised push payment (APP) Best Practice Standards say a payment service 
provider, in this case Lloyds, should notify receiving banks about potential fraud 
immediately after being told about the fraud.
Lloyds records suggest that Mr and Mrs A reported the fraud on 5 November 2019 and this 
information was passed on to the receiving bank the following day. I would have expected 
this to have been done sooner. But its clear Mr A had already moved the money on to the 
scammer by the time the fraud was reported. So I dont think earlier contact would have 
made a difference in this particular case.
Mrs A said she was disappointed with my provisional findings. She also resubmitted a letter 
she had shared prior to my provisional decision being issued, which included comments 
about both this and two other complaints that relate to this fraud. She noted that I had not 
addressed all of her points. And, in relation to this complaint against Lloyds, she said that the 
account was opened in unusual circumstances and the subsequent account activity ought to 
have aroused suspicion.
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision saying it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has sent any new evidence or arguments for me to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision 
and reproduced above. Mrs A has said I didnt address the points shed made, but I 
disagree. As detailed above, I specifically addressed the account opening and subsequent 
account activity and explained why I didnt think Lloyds could have prevented the losses.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs A have lost a lot of money and fallen victim to a cruel scam. But in 
this case, in all the circumstances, I cant fairly or reasonably tell Lloyds to refund their 
money.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman