DRN-3419208
The complaint
Mr F complains that Crowdcube Capital Limited provided misleading information about an 
investment opportunity it promoted on its crowdfunding platform. He says he participated in 
the crowdfund based on the misleading information and has now suffered a financial loss. 
What happened
Crowdcube is an investment-based crowdfunding platform that promotes investment
opportunities by way of pitches. Prospective investors can view information about a business
and the details of the investment in these pitches on the platform before deciding whether to
invest. In return for their investment they receive shares in the business.
Mr F made an investment in a food takeaway company, which I shall refer to as Company
A, via Crowdcubes crowdfunding platform in late 2017. The pitch for the crowdfunding
campaign explained that:
Having grown from 2 sites to 4 since their last round on Crowdcube, [Company A] is
revolutionising thetakeout industry through its takeaway only locations with rapid
delivery and custom technology. Now raising funds for further expansion.
Having already invested in Company A during an earlier round of crowdfunding in 2016, Mr 
F invested a further £10,000 in this fundraising round. As Company A substantially 
surpassed its initial £500,000 target, the round successfully closed and he was allocated 
shares.
Company A contacted Mr F in 2018 and 2019 explaining that it had decided to pivot its
business model away from branded high street stores to an online delivery model. But in 
May 2020, Company A entered into a creditors voluntary liquidation, following a winding up 
resolution being passed by its members.
In June 2021, Mr F raised concerns via a representative with Crowdcube and requested he 
was compensated for losses he had suffered.
 
Crowdcube responded to the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said the pitch presented was 
clear, fair and not misleading. Investors had the opportunity to ask Company A further 
questions, which some investors did. If investors had particular investment criteria, this 
would have been the appropriate juncture to ask questions to understand whether it met 
their requirements. It also said Crowdcube had no control over Company As decision to 
pivot away from opening takeaway stores. Unhappy with the response, in July 2021, Mr F 
contacted this service to refer his complaint to us for independent review. 
One of our investigators completed an investigation. He issued an assessment not upholding 
Mr Fs complaint. In summary he said:
- Crowdcube needed to ensure the pitch was clear, fair and not misleading. This 
included carrying out a basic plausibility check on Company As expansion plans.
- Crowdcube didnt obtain sufficient documentary evidence to substantiate how likely 
Company As plans were to go ahead.
- As Crowdcube were aware Company As plans for using the funds were at an early 
stage and this ought to have been disclosed in the pitch. But he didnt think it would 
have changed Mr Fs decision to invest had Crowdcube disclosed that Company As 
expansion plans were at an early stage. This was largely because he didnt think the 
evidence supported that the opening of new stores was critical to Mr Fs decision to 
invest. 
- He noted there was no evidence of Mr F making enquiries with Company A or 
Crowdcube on the progress with opening new sites  including after Company A sent 
updates which explained it wasnt opening the sites as planned and that it was 
moving to a dark kitchen model.  He said had Mr Fs decision to invest in Company 
A been based on the opening of physical locations, then he wouldve expected Mr F 
to have raised concerns when receiving these updates.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators assessment. In summary he said he doesnt agree 
he would have invested despite the absence of the representations made in the pitch 
document. He said had Crowdcube complied with its duties, it would have made it clear 
Company As expansion plans were in the early stages and that this may include a change 
of strategy. He thinks Crowdcube have either amended the pitch not to include incorrect 
information or provided a health warning. Mr F doesnt agree that the fact he did not raise 
issues upon receipt of updates from Company A means that he should not receive 
compensation.
As Mr F didnt agree with the investigators assessment, the complaint has been passed to
me to decide.
Mr F made further representations for me to consider. In summary he said:
- His complaint is not that he was promised new stores and instead got an online 
delivery model. His complaint is that he was promised aggressive expansion in 
circumstances where, had Crowdcube discharged its duties to him, he would have 
been made aware that Company A was unable to provide any evidence to 
Crowdcube that it was in a position to carry out any expansion at all. It follows that he 
would not have invested had he known this.
- Crowdcube knew that company A had sought to raise funds on the basis of 
aggressive expansion and that Crowdcube had been unable to provide any evidence 
this was a plausible aim. The suggestion that when approached by a company 
seeking investment on the back of promises of aggressive expansion that it cannot 
remotely evidence are realistic Crowdcube can discharge its duties to potential 
investors by requiring the company to tone down its aims and give the vague 
explanation its plans are in the early stages cannot be correct. There was no 
evidence of any plausible route to expansion regardless of how vague the pitch was.
- While updates were received from Company A in 2018 and 2019 about a pivot from 
expansion based on new stores to expansion based on online sales, both models 
were models for expansion which is the basis on which he invested. The updates he 
received did not ever give any indication that the plan for expansion had changed.
- The Investigators finding that he ought to have complained upon learning that the 
plan to open new stores had pivoted to a plan to a new online model simply does 
not make sense. He had been promised in the pitch a realistic expansion plan and 
not a single update he received from Company A gave the impression that that plan 
had been materially changed. The April 2019 update makes it explicitly clear that the 
core of the plan we have set out will remain the same despite the focus shifting to 
online growth. So he had no reason to object to this. It wasnt until receiving of an 
email in March 2020 explaining that the company was being put into liquidation he 
had cause to think something had gone wrong. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of promoting Company As investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised
and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are
required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles here are:
- PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
- PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
- PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
- COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
- COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving Company As pitch, Crowdcube needed to satisfy itself that the
information contained within it was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be
satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in Company A,
it would continue to be acting in its clients best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions
made in the pitch, Crowdcube would need to carry out reasonable checks. What these
reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given case, is something
which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary according to the
particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to provide a set of
tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved.
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its
obligations under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests
rule (COBS 2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on
the essential information on which any communication or promotion is based.
The FCA also said that:
In relation to statements about future commercial success, this should include at
least a basic plausibility check. For example, if a borrower says it is going to build a
block of flats within 6 months but it does not have the relevant constructionpermissions, it would seem reasonable for a platform to question the plausibility of
the project.
Ive also considered the FCAs guidance on approving financial promotions from November
2019 which explained that firms should:
analyse, and carry out due diligence regarding, the substance of a promotion
before approving its content for communication by an unauthorised person. The
extent and substance of the analysis and diligence needed to be able confirm that a
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading will vary from case-to-case and will
depend on the form and content of the promotion. When assessing whether a
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading, a firm may need to consider (among other
things):
- The authenticity of the proposition described in the relevant promotion.
Whilst I appreciate Mr F had invested prior to the publication of these consultation papers
and guidance, I still feel they are relevant as they provide clarity as to the interpretation and 
application of the existing rules and guidance which were applicable to Crowdcube at the
time.
The FCAs website provides consumers with useful information on crowdfunding. This
includes a section on how consumers should protect themselves before investing and says
they should first understand what due diligence a platform preforms on investee companies.
Looking at Crowdcubes website, it makes it clear what due diligence it performs in its due
diligence charter. It explains:
The following due diligence is carried on each company before the pitch is open to
investment: []
- fact check all statements and claims made in the pitch text to ensure it is fair, clear 
and not misleading by obtaining, where possible, independent evidence.
Taking into account the above, its clear that Crowdcubes due diligence needed to be
sufficient to satisfy itself on the essential information on which the promotion of Company A
was based. Crowdcube also needed to check that the claims made in the pitch were
authentic by way of a basic plausibility test. Further, Crowdcube needed to make Mr F aware 
of the extent of which it performed due diligence on Company A, let him know the outcome 
of this and for it to be sufficiently detailed to allow him to weigh up the risks and benefits of 
investing in Company A.
Essentially Mr F complains that he was misled about how the funds raised through the 
crowdfund would be used by Company A  based on what he saw in the promotion provided 
by Crowdcube. Ive reviewed the original promotion and note there is limited information on 
exactly what the funds would be used for. There is a short section that talks about how 
Company A had doubled its number of sites from two to four and it was looking for further 
expansion but no more detail than that.  
Mr F has referred to information that was provided in an invitation email and a business plan 
presentation that Company A sent him  for example the references he makes to being told 
about an aggressive expansion. But this information comes from a restricted document. This 
means its contents was not approved by an authorised person (i.e. Crowdcube). Essentially 
Crowdcube didnt need to ensure the information in these documents was clear, fair and 
non-misleading. Crowdcube were promoting an investment into a non-readily available 
security that was high risk in nature. So, it is correct to say how the funds were intended to be used by Company A was essential information that prospective investors, like Mr F, 
would need to enable them to make a reasoned decision to invest or not. But only to the 
extent of the information provided in the pitch  not the contents of the business plan or 
email. 
Crowdcube has provided notification to show the due diligence it carried out before 
promoting the investment opportunity. A key element of this was how it satisfied itself of the 
plausibility that Company A would use funds for further expansion by opening new sites. 
Crowdcube says it discussed this with Company A, and was told by Company A that it had a 
number of locations in mind but plans were at an early stage, so there was limited 
documentary evidence available. Crowdcube said it was satisfied the plans were genuine. 
To support this, Crowdcube has provided notes from its call records with Company A  
including those from a call in November 2017, shortly before promoting the investments. 
This includes the following note from this call:
4 units currently  several more in the pipeline  what does that mean?
This is evidence to support that Crowdcube did perform due diligence  including that related 
to Company As plans to open new sites. But what is missing is Company As response to 
the above question, so it is unclear what further enquiries or indeed whether Company A 
responded at all. In its defence of the complaint, Crowdcube said it didnt promote the 
opening of specific sites at any point and rather, promoted Company A had expanded from 
two sites to four and intended to expand further. But Im not persuaded by Crowdcubes 
arguments. It was obliged to ensure the promotion was fair, clear and not misleading. But its 
not clear what further expansion means from the promotion. I think it is reasonable to 
conclude from the following extracts, having grown from two sites to four, and now raising
funds for further expansion that Company A was looking to open up new sites with the 
funding. This is supported by the fact there is evidence that Crowdcube asked Company A 
questions about opening new sites.  All of this leads me to the conclusion that Crowdcube 
didnt meet its obligations.
In my view Crowdcube should have completed a basic plausibility check on the statement of 
future expansion as it is relevant to the future success of Company A. I accept there may be 
difficulty in testing the plausibility of whether Company A would do what it says it intends to 
do in the promotion. I also understand that Crowdcube tested the plausibility of the 
statement of further expansion by combining Q&A with Company A with evidence of its track 
record of opening new sites. But from the information Ive seen, its apparent Crowdcube 
knew Company As plans for using the funds were at an early stage and were not 
substantiated with sufficient documentary evidence for it to conclude how plausible these 
plans were. I think this something Mr F should have been made aware of  but I dont think 
the available evidence supports that Crowdcube did this. So, this is another reason why I 
dont think Crowdcube met its obligations under COBS 4.2.1R (1)  the fair, clear and not 
misleading rule.
I also dont think it can be argued that Crowdcube met its obligations under Principle 6 (PRIN 
2.1.1R (6))  the clients best interest rule. Crowdcube needed to safeguard investors, like 
Mr F, interests. To do this I think it should have asked what Company A meant by further 
expansion and checked whether this was plausible. For example, Crowdcube could have 
performed a plausibility check by obtaining lease documentation (like it did for the two 
previous stores) to establish if it intended to open at new sites. Or it could have asked for 
evidence of agreements
in principle or anything to demonstrate Company A intended to open new stores. I havent 
seen that it did this, so it follows that I find it didnt act in Mr Fs best interest by failing to. To be clear, I havent agreed with Mr Fs view that Crowdcube is responsible for ensuring the 
accuracy of promised aggressive expansion. This statement didnt form part of the pitch 
approved by Crowdcube. As Ive previously mentioned, Crowdcube wasnt required to 
perform due diligence checks on the business plan document. So, I havent found that it is 
responsible for the statements and information Mr F claims are misleading from this 
document. 
Whilst I think there was a failing in Crowdcubes due diligence, in order to uphold the
Complaint, Id need to be satisfied that Mr F wouldnt have invested had Crowdcube made
him aware that Company As expansion plans were at an early stage and werent
substantiated with documentary evidence. Ive thought very carefully about this, but on
balance, Im persuaded he would have still invested despite Crowdcubes failing. I know this
will be disappointing for Mr F, but Ill explain why Ive reached this outcome.
I understand Mr F says he wouldnt have invested had he known Company As expansion
plans werent substantiated, but I have to consider that hes complaining with the benefit of 
hindsight, with Company A having been liquidated. The failure of Company A in itself isnt 
evidence that Mr F wouldnt have invested. This is just the materialisation of the key risk of 
investing in crowdfunding opportunities. 
I acknowledge Mr F says he isnt complaining about the move from opening new stores. So, 
when the notices from Company A were sent in 2018 and 2019 to explain it had decided to 
pivot its business model, this didnt cause him concern as it was still realistic expansion. I 
agree the decision to pivot isnt relevant to the falling Ive identified as Crowdcube wasnt 
aware of Company A having any intentions to change plans at the time of promoting the 
investment. 
Ive already explained that from the information in the pitch, it is reasonable to conclude that 
Company A was looking to open up new sites with the funding.  There is no other reference 
to different forms of expansion. So to bring it back to the failing Ive identified, what I need to 
decide is whether Mr F wouldve still invested had he been told that Company As plans to 
open new stores were at an early stage and that Crowdcube hadnt seen any documentary 
evidence to substantiate the plans. When the 2018 and 2019 updates were provided, this 
was a material change to the plan for expansion. Despite receiving these updates, Mr F 
didnt contact Company A or Crowdcube to query this change. I would have expected to see 
some evidence to support this  such as queries raised at the time of investing or after being 
notified of Company A pivoting its plans. But if as Mr F now says, the type of expansion 
wasnt a concern to him, then it doesnt seem understanding that plans for new stores were 
at an early stage would have put him off investing  especially if the opening of new stores 
wasnt critical to his decision to invest. 
Whist the pitch explained what Company A wanted to use the funds raised for, it also
provided financial information which may have influenced Mr Fs decision to invest. This
included information regarding Company As revenue and sales growth:
Our revenue in 2016 was £1.23m with EBITDA of - £300k...We have seen sales
grow by 75% to October and are profitable at store level since October.
The pitch also spoke ambitiously about the potential market of the takeout industry and
Company As position in it. Mr F has also explained that he had previously invested in 
Company A through Crowdcube. As far as Im aware he isnt complaining about the first 
investment he made into Company A in 2016. So, investing for a second time suggests he 
had faith in the potential of the company. In my view, its clear there may have been a 
number of reasons as to why Mr F may have decided to invest in Company A. And as Mr F 
didnt raise any concerns at the time Company A deviated from the plans provided in the pitch, this further supports that he invested in Company A as he had confidence in the 
overall financial prospect of the business and wouldve done so even if he had been told the 
expansion plans were at an early stage.
So taking into account all of the above, I havent found evidence to persuade me that clearer
information about the expansion plans would have changed Mr Fs decision to invest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against Crowdcube Capital Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman