DRN-2555932
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service he received from Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) when 
looking to take a partial uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (UFPLS) from his pension. 
 
Mr T is unhappy Zurich didnt contact him to make him aware they would no longer be 
offering the partial UFPLS option after April 2020. Mr T said when he did find out, he had 
little time to decide what to do with his pension.
What happened
Mr T held a personal pension with Zurich. His Selected Retirement Age (SRA) was 55, which 
Mr T would reach in December 2019. 
Before his SRA, Mr T spoke to Pension Wise and Zurich about his retirement options. Mr T 
decided the best option would be to leave his pension invested and take partial UFPLS 
payments each year, which he says Zurich confirmed was an option. 
Zurich wrote to Mr T in January 2020 confirming that because he hadnt taken his benefits, 
his SRA would be extended to age 65  so December 2029.
In February 2020, Mr T contacted Zurich to arrange his first partial UFPLS payment. He was 
told during this call that partial UFPLS payments would no longer be an option after April 
2020. 
Mr T was unhappy that Zurich hadnt told him about the changes sooner and so he made a 
complaint. He felt his options were to now either draw all the money in one lump sum, which 
would result in a high tax bill, or transfer his pension.
Zurich responded in March 2020 and didnt uphold the complaint. They said they made a 
business decision to withdraw the option for partial UFPLS payments in response to a 
change in legislation. Zurich said they did start communicating this change with impacted 
customers from January 2020, but they didnt contact all customers. Instead, their approach 
was to explain the change when customers contacted them.
Mr T was unhappy with the response and so brought the complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked at the matter and didnt think Zurich had acted unfairly. He said 
there was no requirement for Zurich to contact Mr T about the change and it would be unfair 
to expect them to contact all customers about this. He also felt that Mr T was able to transfer 
his pension and that Zurich wasnt responsible for any loss in value of the pension. 
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators view. He said that removing the option to take partial 
UFPLS payments was a major change to his pension and Zurich should have contacted him 
to make him aware of this. He said that after he found out about the change, and transferred 
his pension in March 2020, it had dropped by around £5,000 compared to the value in 
February 2020.
As its not been possible to resolve the dispute, the complaint has been passed to me for 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr T is unhappy that Zurich didnt contact him sooner to tell him about their 
decision to withdraw the option of taking a partial UFPLS from the pension. But to make an 
award against Zurich, I first need to decide if they have done anything wrong.
The decision to withdraw the option to take partial UFPLS payment is a commercial decision 
Zurich are entitled to make. And that decision hadnt been made when Mr T first contacted 
Zurich before his SRA in December 2019, so I dont think Zurich gave Mr T any incorrect 
information at that time. 
Zurich said they started communicating the change with impacted customers from January 
2020. But as Mr T hadnt taken any benefits by that point, and his SRA had been extended 
to age 65, he didnt fall into the group of customers impacted by the change. Instead, Zurich 
said they would explain the changes when customers contacted them about taking benefits. 
Theres no requirement for Zurich to contact all customers about this change, and it likely 
wouldnt impact most customers. I appreciate this change did impact Mr T, as he was 
intending to take partial UFPLS payments from his pension each year, but Zurich explained 
the changes when Mr T contacted them in February 2020. I think this is reasonable and 
theres no obligation for Zurich to do anything more, so I cant reasonably say Zurich did 
anything wrong. 
Mr T says that because of the situation, he transferred his pension at a time when the 
investments had dropped in value. So the transfer value was around £5,000 lower than the 
value of his pension in February 2020. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr Ts pension had dropped in value at the time of the transfer. I 
appreciate this must be disappointing, but Zurich isnt responsible for this change in value. 
During the call in February 2020, Zurich explained that Mr T could no longer take a partial 
UFPLS after April 2020. It was then up to Mr T to decide what he wanted to do with his 
pension, and there were no extra charges or penalties for transferring to a new provider. 
Zurich wasnt providing advice, so theyre not responsible for the decision to transfer Mr Ts 
pension. 
Even if Zurich communicated their decision sooner, its not possible to know when Mr T 
would have transferred his pension. And if the funds were invested with the new pension 
provider, its likely Mr T would have still seen his pension drop in value with the new 
provider.  
Its unfortunate Mr Ts pension dropped in value before the transfer, but this was outside 
Zurichs control. I think Zurich acted fairly by communicating the change when Mr T called in 
February 2020 and there was no requirement for them to do anything more.    
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint and make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman