DRN-3150741
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as G, complains about Adrian Flux Insurance Services Groups 
(AF) handling of their building insurance policy renewal.
Ms H has brought the complaint on behalf of G, so I may refer to her in my decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms H has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure her Ive 
read and considered carefully everything shes said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by G, and by AF, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on 
the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
AF sent G its renewal offer in December 2020 and Im satisfied from the documents 
sent, it clearly set out subsidence was excluded from cover
It would be up to Ms H and G to review these documents to decide whether the 
policy met their needs  and I can see these were sent within sufficient time prior to 
the renewal taking place
Ms H acknowledged subsidence cover wasnt provided in the renewal when she 
called AF in December 2020, and she mentioned an outstanding subsidence claim
While I appreciate Ms H may have felt she had to take the policy, she wasnt 
obligated to - and would have had the option to decline AFs renewal offer if it wasnt 
suitable
Ms H is unhappy AF didnt make her aware it no longer offered cover under her 
previous insurer, as it was no longer part of its panel of selected insurers. But I dont 
consider AF were obligated to share commercial decisions with its customers
So for these reasons I do not uphold this complaint
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Gs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman