DRN-1348629
The complaint
Mr L complains Santander UK Plc blocked payments he attempted to make with his credit 
card.
What happened
Mr L has a credit card account with Santander. In June 2019 Dr L was using his credit card 
abroad. While some transactions went through, a number payments were blocked. Mr L 
called Santander to find out why his transactions hadn't gone through.
Santander's adviser explained the transactions needed to be reviewed before they could be 
approved. And she went on to say there were no other blocks on his account. Mr L explained 
the transactions were urgent, so the adviser tried to contact the relevant department so that 
they could review Mr L's transactions as a priority. Once Santander was satisfied Mr L's 
transactions were genuine, they explained the block would be lifted that day. However, that 
didn't happen, and Mr L couldn't make the relevant payments until the following day.
Mr L complained to Santander about what had happened. After looking into Mr L's concerns, 
Santander issued their final response. In this they explained their systems automatically flag 
transactions that may be fraudulent. These are then reviewed by their security department. 
And that was the reason some of Mr L's payments were blocked. Santander acknowledged 
their adviser had incorrectly told Mr L the block would be lifted on the same day they were 
satisfied the transactions were genuine. Santander apologised for their mistake and credited 
Mr L's account with £100 by way of an apology. Mr L remained unhappy, and brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didn't think Mr L's complaint should be upheld. He explained Santander had 
concerns the payments may have been fraudulent. And he didn't think it was unreasonable 
for Santander to block them to check they were authentic. But once Santander was satisfied 
the payments were genuine, they lifted the block as soon as possible. Our investigator also 
felt the £100 offered by Santander for giving Mr L incorrect advice, was fair.
Mr L remained unhappy. He didn't think the £100 went far enough to recognise the 
embarrassment and inconvenience he experienced. Our investigator wasn't persuaded to 
change his opinion. So Mr L's complaint was passed to me to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr L's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome he hoped for, but I'll explain my reasoning below.
Mr L is unhappy a number of transactions he tried to make were blocked. And he's unhappy 
with the time it took for the block to be removed. Santander has said they blocked the 
transactions because they were concerned they may have been fraudulent.To help me reach a decision on Mr L complaint, I've reviewed the terms and conditions that 
apply to his credit card. That's because they outline how Santander and Mr L need to 
manage his credit card account. I consider Santander can block payments from their 
customers accounts because their terms and conditions say:
"15 Our right to limit your use of the Account
15.3 We may refuse to carry out a Transaction if:
g) we suspect fraud or that carrying out a Transaction may result in increased credit risk."
When considering the term above, I also took into account the fact Mr L was trying to make a 
number of high value payments in relatively quick succession. It's not uncommon for 
fraudulent payments to be made in a similar pattern. So, I don't think it was unreasonable 
that Santander had suspicions the transactions may not have been genuine.
It's important for banks to protect their customers. So, if a bank suspects transactions from a 
customer's account are fraudulent, I would expect them to take steps to determine whether 
or not that's the case. I'm satisfied that's what Santander was trying to do when it blocked Mr 
L's payments. So I don't consider they actions were unfair or unreasonable.
Mr L is also unhappy with the time it took for the block to be lifted. Mr L attempted to make 
the relevant payments on a Saturday and Sunday. However, they weren't able to go through 
until the Monday - when the block was lifted. Mr L said the payments were urgent, and the 
fact they were blocked caused him a great deal of embarrassment.
Santander has told us the department that was able to lift the block doesn't work weekends. 
This meant the earliest the block could be lifted was on the Monday. And the information I've 
seen shows Mr L was able to make the necessary payments that day. So I'm pleased to see 
that happened.
However, when Mr L spoke with one of Santander's advisers on the Sunday, he was told the 
block would be lifted that day. So I can understand why he would have been even more 
frustrated when he found out that wasn't the case. Santander acknowledged their mistake 
when they sent Mr L their final response. And they offered him £100 in recognition of the 
avoidable confusion and inconvenience he experienced. However, Mr L thinks an award of 
£1,500 is more appropriate.
Mr L says Santander are able to lift blocks on weekends because he was still able to use his 
credit card. So he believes Santander lifted the block, and then put it back in place. But the 
evidence we've been provided doesn't persuade me that's what happened. I've not seen 
anything that shows a block was put on Mr L's credit card account as a whole. It was just the 
large payments that were blocked. This was also explained to Mr L when he spoke to one of 
Santander's advisers on the Sunday. During the call the adviser explained she could see 
certain transactions had been blocked, but there were no other blocks on his account. 
 
 
As mentioned above, it wasn't right that Mr L was given the wrong information about when 
the block on his payments would be lifted. But Santander did take on board the fact Mr L's 
payments were urgent. And the adviser he spoke to took steps to notify the relevant 
department of this fact. Santander also lifted the block the same day the department that deals with this was back in the office. So I'm persuaded Santander took the necessary steps 
as soon as they practically could.
I don't think Santander acted unfairly by blocking Mr L's transactions. I also don't consider 
they took too long to lift the block. So, in this case, I only believe an award is appropriate for 
the mis-information Mr L was given about when the block was lifted. This incorrect advice 
impacted Mr L for one day. I consider Santander's offer of £100 is appropriate. It's in line 
with what I would have awarded if Santander hadn't already acknowledged their mistake. 
So, in light of this, I won't be asking Santander to do anything more to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mr L's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman