DRN-4279754
The complaint
Mr A complains OHENTPAY UK LIMITED (OUL) has failed to process two payments he 
made to his overseas account using its platform. Mr A adds this has caused him distress and 
inconvenience.  
What happened
In January 2023, Mr A sent two separate payments of £1,500 to his overseas account. He 
says this was to pay for his visa. Mr A told OUL these funds had not been received into the 
beneficiary account and was told it was looking into it. 
Mr A then referred his complaint to this service. OUL were given eight weeks to send Mr A 
its final response, but from what Ive seen this wasnt sent. 
One of our Investigators then looked into Mr As complaint. They asked OUL for its 
representations to this complaint in March 2023, April 2023, and twice in May 2023. But no 
responses were received. 
As they received no responses, our Investigator sent OUL their findings on the complaint 
based on the limited information they had. In short, they found: 
- Mr A has shown he tried to send £1501.99 twice abroad and this shows as pending. 
He had to pay a fee of £1.99 respectively for the transactions  
- Mr As OUL statements show hes been sending funds using its services since 
June 2022. OUL hasnt told Mr A why his payments are still pending 
- Based on Mr As submissions, and as OUL havent responded, the complaint is 
upheld 
- To put things right, OUL should refund Mr A the funds and pay 8% interest on them 
from the date he requested them till settlement. OUL should also pay Mr A £100 for 
the trouble and upset its caused and £100 for the failure to comply with our time 
limits under DISP 3.5.14 of the rules that govern this service 
Mr A agreed with what our Investigator said. In addition to sending their outcome by email, 
our Investigator also sent the same by letter. Someone senior at OUL responded to this 
letter by email in July 2023 and said they would forward it to the relevant department to 
respond to us within a week. 
Our Investigator did not receive any response from OUL and sent them a chaser in 
August 2023 by email and letter. Because of this they sent both parties correspondence to 
inform them the complaint will be passed to an ombudsman to decide, and they have two 
weeks to make further representations.  OUL did not respond. 
This complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr A says OUL didnt process two payments he made in January 2023 to his overseas 
account. He has sent in screenshots of his account with OUL which shows two payments of 
£1,501.99 were made by him but they were still pending. Mr A was charged a fee of £1.99 
per transaction. 
Mr A has also shown he was using the OUL payment service regularly from at least 
June 2022. I note he hasnt disputed any of these transactions or said hes had problems 
with OUL before. 
As a service, and in terms of contact attempts from the Investigator, Im satisfied weve 
made more than reasonable efforts to get OULs side of the story. But despite that no 
material information relating to the complaint has been made. Its not clear if OULs contact 
details on our system are incorrect, but I note theyre consistent with whats on the 
regulators, the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA), website. 
A senior member of staff from OUL also responded to our Investigators letter of outcome, so 
Im satisfied its aware of the complaint and its obligations to respond to this service. 
As Im satisfied OUL are aware of this complaint, and as its had more than reasonable time 
to respond, I will decide its merits based on the information I do have. 
Given the information from Mr A - which includes his testimony - and as set out above, Im 
persuaded he made the two payments and that they never reached his corresponding 
overseas account. As OUL havent responded and given any explanation, I cant say why 
this has happened. 
So, based on what information I do have, I think both transactions including the fees charged 
on them should be refunded to Mr A. These funds were being sent to Mr As account, so Im 
satisfied hes been deprived of them. Because of this OUL should pay 8% simple interest 
from when the transactions were made, which I understand is 5 January 2023, up until 
settlement. 
Mr A says not having access to his funds has caused him and his family distress and 
inconvenience and to bridge the gap financially hes had to borrow money. Ive already 
addressed Mr A being deprived of his funds. But Im persuaded he would have suffered 
distress and anxiety because of whats happened. Having considered the impact, Im 
satisfied £100 is fair compensation. 
The rules that we must follow at the Financial Ombudsman Service, DISP, are contained in 
the FCAs handbook. Mr A and OUL can refer to these on the FCAs handbook on its 
website. 
DISP 3.5.14 says: If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may:
(1) proceed with consideration of the complaint; and
(2) include provision for any material distress or material inconvenience caused by 
that failure in any award which he decides to make.Ive already said that Ive proceeded to consider the complaint as OUL has failed to comply 
with the time limits we had set it. I also think the delays have exacerbated Mr As distress 
and inconvenience given no information or explanation has been given by OUL. Had it 
complied with our time limits its likely a resolution would have been reached much sooner 
too.
Because of this Im satisfied OULs failure to comply with our time limits has had a material 
impact on the distress and inconvenience Mr A suffered. Because of this I award a further 
£100 compensation.  
Putting things right
To put things right, OUL must: 
- Pay Mr A £3,003.98 as a refund of his transactions that were not processed
- Pay Mr A 8% simple interest on £3,003.98 from 5 January 2023 until settlement*
- Pay Mr A £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered** 
* If OUL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
**OUL must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr A accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date 
for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. OHENTPAY UK LIMITED must now put 
things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman