DRN-2372717
The complaint
Mr S complains about the decision by Society of Lloyds (SoL) to turn down his 
subsidence claim made under a landlords buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S took out the policy in 2015. In 2018, he submitted a subsidence to SoL after 
cracking had appeared in the property.
SoL turned down the claim. It said the property had been built on made-up or filled 
ground, and therefore subsidence was excluded under the policy terms. Unhappy with 
this, Mr S brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the 
evidence supported that SoL had been correct to rely on the exclusion to turn down 
the claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 November 2020. My provisional findings were:
The policy says:
With respect to subsidence, ground heave and landslip, the Insurer shall not be 
liable for Damage or the resulting interruption or interference
A. arising from:

iv) settlement or movement of made up ground

D. which occurs at the same Insured Premises which originated prior to the 
inception of this cover.
After site investigations had taken place, SoLs structural engineer (that Ill call 
Company Z) issued a report. They said the house, garage and side extension had been 
built on filled ground. They thought the house had most likely been built on a raft 
foundation and that the raft had settled towards one side, resulting in a noticeable slope. 
Company Z thought the movement was likely to have occurred during the early life of the 
house and there were no signs that it remained progressive.
In respect of the garage and side extension, Company Z said that both had shallow flat 
concrete slabs and both slabs had settled to one side. They thought the reason for the 
settlement was slow compaction of the filled ground. Again, Company Z thought 
settlement had occurred during the early life of the structures, however, unlike the 
house, they thought the settlement was still progressive. In order to establish if the 
movement was indeed progressive, they recommended monitoring take place over a six-
month period. They also made some recommendations in respect of the drains, though 
they didnt attribute the movement to issues with the drains.
Mr S sent Company Zs report to his own engineer who had carried out an inspection at 
the property previously. He confirmed that his engineer accepted Company Zs findings as 
being factual.
Its therefore accepted that the property was built on made-up ground, and that the 
movement at the property arose from this. As this is specifically excluded under the 
policy, on the face of it, SoL isnt liable to pay the claim.
However, SoL accepts that the exclusion is unusual and that it ought to have made Mr 
S aware of it when he took out the policy. I would agree with this. Similar exclusions 
usually only apply to newly made-up ground.
The next point I need to consider is what Mr S would have done, had the exclusion 
been brought to his attention.
SoL says that because Mr S didnt know that the property had been built on made-
up ground, it thinks knowledge of the exclusion wouldnt have made any difference 
to his decision to take out the policy. I disagree and Ill explain why.
Before Mr S purchased the property in 2014, he arranged for his own structural engineer 
to carry out an inspection. I understand this was required by his mortgage company due 
to evidence of movement affecting the property. His structural engineer found there had 
been historical differential foundation settlement of the garage and extension, but said 
there was no evidence of progressive movement at the time. With respect to the main 
house, the engineer said the floor levels were slightly unlevel and the cause of this was 
considered to be initial deflections and initial compaction of the underlying infill.
Given that Mr S knew there had been historical foundation settlement affecting the 
garage and extension when he took out the policy, I think that if he had been made 
specifically aware of the exclusion, it would be reasonable to have expected him to have 
checked with his structural engineer (who had already inspected the property) to see if 
the property had been built on made-up ground. As the engineer had already referred to 
infill under the main house, presumably he was aware that the property had been built 
on made-up ground and would have advised Mr S of that.
I think its highly unlikely that Mr S would have chosen to go ahead with the policy, if he 
was aware the property had been built on made-up ground, and that any future 
subsidence that may arise from this would be excluded from cover. Instead, I think its 
most likely he would have taken out cover elsewhere, with an insurer that didnt have 
such an exclusion.
Consequently, I think Mr S was prejudiced by SoL failing to make him aware of the 
exclusion. I therefore intend to require SoL to deal with the claim.
SoL also declined the claim because it said the movement was historic and therefore pre- 
dated the policy.
Company Z thought there had been movement to the main house and the side extension 
which was likely to have occurred during the early life of the house. I understand the 
property was built in the 1950s, and its thought the side extension was added soon after. 
I would therefore agree that SoL isnt liable for any historical movement. However, 
Company Z also thought that there was likely progressive movement to the garage and 
side extension, which had happened since Mr S took out the policy. It recommended that 
further monitoring take place to establish this.
I therefore intend to require SoL to carry out the necessary investigations to establish if there is progressive movement to the property. If so, I would expect it to deal with any 
damage that has occurred since Mr S took out the policy. However, if the only way it can 
repair the new damage that has happened since Mr S took out the policy is to also repair 
the old existing damage, then it should repair the older damage too.
SoL thought Mr Ss claim could have been handled better, and paid him £700 
compensation to recognise this. Although Mr S hasnt complained about this, for 
completeness, I would agree with SoL that there had been poor claims handling. There 
were unnecessary delays in SoL appointing Company Z, and SoL then provided Mr S with 
confusing and conflicting information about whether policy liability had engaged, and the 
reasons why it was turning down the claim. I think the £700 compensation is fair in the 
circumstances.
Before Mr S made a claim, he arranged for his own inspection to take place to find out 
what the issue was. That was of course his decision. However, it seems SoL then asked 
Mr S to arrange for that same company to carry out monitoring. Its not clear why it did 
this, when insurers usually arrange for monitoring to take place. I understand SoL hasnt 
reimbursed Mr S for the cost of this, and so I intend to require it to do so. Though to be 
clear, it doesnt need to reimburse him for the initial inspection, as Mr S chose to arrange 
this himself.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make.
Mr S responded to confirm he accepted my provisional decision.
 
SoL didnt provide any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, since neither party has provided me with any further comments for me to consider, 
I see no reason to change my provisional findings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Society of Lloyds to deal with the 
claim as Ive set out in my provisional decision. If it hasnt already done so, it should also 
pay Mr S £700 compensation. Finally, it should reimburse Mr S for the cost of his expert 
carrying out monitoring, plus 8% simple interest per annum, payable from the date the 
invoice was paid to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman