DRN-4141405
The complaint
Miss M complains that Wise Payments Limited wont refund the money she lost when she 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In December 2021, Miss M received a phone call from someone who said they worked for 
Wise. The caller told her there was suspicious activity on her account, that she had 
malicious software on her phone that needed to be removed, and that she needed to move 
her money to a new safe account they had created for her while this was being done. As the 
caller knew information about her and her accounts, was calling from what appeared to be 
Wises telephone number and sent her a text message that appeared on the same thread as 
previous genuine messages from Wise, Miss M believed the caller was genuine. So she 
made a number of payments from her Wise account to the new account details the caller 
gave her, totalling £6,331.10.
Miss M first sent a payment of £6,250 to one set of account details, but this was immediately 
returned to her as the caller said fraudsters were trying to make transfers out of her account 
at the same time. So the caller then told Miss M to make three smaller payments to a 
different set of account details instead, which she did. Ive set out the payments below:
Date Details Amount
13 December 2021 To 1st account details £6,250
13 December 2021 Received from 1st account details £6,250
13 December 2021 To 2nd account details £2,990.43
13 December 2021 To 2nd account details £2,990.87
13 December 2021 To 2nd account details £349.80
Unfortunately we now know the caller was a scammer.
The scammer told Miss M the payments would be returned to her within 24 hours. But after 
the payments werent returned, Miss M contacted Wise to report the scam and ask it to 
refund the money she had lost.
Wise investigated but said Miss M had made the payments herself, using the device she 
normally used. So it didnt think there was anything it could have done to prevent the scam 
and it didnt agree to refund the money she had lost. Wise did offer Miss M £150 
compensation for the delays in responding to her complaint though. Miss M wasnt satisfied 
with Wises response, so referred her complaint to our service.
I sent Miss M and Wise a provisional decision on 14 April 2023, setting out why I was 
intending to uphold this complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the customers account. And a customer will then be 
responsible for those transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Miss M authorised the payments. She accepts he made them 
herself as instructed to by the scammers. So while I recognise that she has been the victim 
of a scam and didnt intend the money to go to scammers, the starting position in law is that 
Wise was obliged to follow her instructions and process the payments. So Miss M isnt 
automatically entitled to a refund.
But taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Wise should 
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether Wise should have identified that Miss M was potentially at 
risk of fraud as a result of these payments.
The first payment Miss M made to the scammer was for £6,250, which I think is a reasonably 
large amount. It was also made immediately following a similarly large credit into the 
account, and to a new payee Miss M hadnt sent money to before. And Miss M had used this 
account fairly frequently and for a significant period of time, but this payment was 
significantly larger than any other payment made out of the account in the previous twelve 
months.
So I think this payment was unusual and out of character for Miss W. And so Wise should 
have identified that she was potentially at risk of fraud as a result and carried out additional 
checks before allowing the payment to go through. And, in these circumstances, I think its 
reasonable to expect these checks to have included questions about why Miss M was 
making the payment.
Ive not seen anything to suggest Miss M was told to lie if she was asked about the 
payments or was given a cover story to give. So, if she was asked about the payment, I think 
she would have told Wise that she was moving her money to keep it safe because she had 
been told her account was at risk. And as this is a common type of scam and not something 
a genuine organisation would ever ask her to do, I think Wise could then have explained this 
to her, the scam would then have been uncovered and Miss M wouldnt have made this 
payment or any of the later payments.
So if Wise had carried out additional checks before allowing the payment of £6,250 to go 
through, as I think it should have, I dont think Miss M would have lost any of the money. So I 
think Wise should refund the full amount she lost of £6,331.10.
Ive thought about whether Miss M should bear some responsibility for her loss, but I dont 
think it would be fair for her to do so. This was a sophisticated scam where the scammers made it appear as if they were calling from a genuine Wise phone number and were able to 
send her a text message that appeared on the same thread as previous genuine messages 
from Wise. Miss M also questioned the caller to check they were genuine, but the caller was 
able to provide several pieces of personal information about her and information about her 
accounts. So I dont think it would be fair to say Miss M acted negligently or unreasonably.
Wise has offered to pay Miss M £150 as compensation for the delays in it responding to her 
complaint. And I think this amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I said Id consider anything further Miss M and Wise sent in following the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M said she was happy with the provisional decision, so had no additional comments to 
make.
Wise replied to the provisional decision, saying that Miss M had made two transfers of 
£7,612.10 and £2,287.90 on the same day around 13 months before the payments she 
made as a result of this scam. So it didnt think the payments she made as a result of the 
scam were out of the ordinary or that it could have detected that she was potentially at risk of 
fraud.
Wise had previously told us about these transfers and so they were considered before the 
provisional decision was issued. But, for clarity, I dont think these transfers mean that the 
first payment of £6,250 Miss M made as a result of the scam wasnt unusual.
The transfers Wise has mentioned were made around 13 months before the scam 
payments, and so I think they are less relevant to what the usual activity on Miss Ms 
account is than the payments made in the twelve months immediately before the scam 
payments. And the first scam payment of £6,250 was significantly larger than any other 
payment made out of Miss Ms account in those twelve months. I also dont think that one 
payment of around £7,500, or one day where two significant transfers are made, means that 
any future payments of less than that amount are then usual activity on that account.
So while I appreciate that Miss M had made other significant payments out of her account in 
the past, when considered against the activity on her account in the months beforehand, I 
still think the first scam payment she made of £6,250 was unusual and out of character. And 
so I still think Wise should have identified that Miss M was potentially at risk of fraud as a 
result and carried out additional checks before allowing the payment to go through.
Neither Wise nor Miss M have submitted any further evidence or arguments in relation to 
any of the other conclusions I came to in the provisional decision. So I also still think those 
conclusions are correct, and for the same reasons.
If Wise had carried out additional checks before allowing the payment of £6,250 to go 
through, as I think it should have, I dont think Miss M would have lost any of the money she 
did. So I think Wise should refund the full amount she lost of £6,331.10. I also think the £150 
Wise has offered to pay Miss M as compensation for the delays in it responding to her 
complaint is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Wise Payments Limited 
to:
Refund Miss M the £6,331.10 she lost as a result of this scam
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date of the payments until the date of 
settlement
Pay Miss M £150 compensation, if it has not already done so
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman