DRN-3568731
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that AWP P&C SA hasnt settled a claim under their travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O bought an annual worldwide multi-trip travel insurance policy which started on 
18 August 2019, provided by AWP.
Mr and Mrs O booked three separate trips abroad in February 2020. The first one was due to 
take place between 20 and 23 March 2020, the second between 9 and 14 April 2020, and 
the third between 5 and 10 June 2020.
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential 
international travel. So, Mr and Mrs O had to cancel their trips.
Mr and Mrs O received refunds or vouchers for some of their costs from other sources. But 
they say they havent received refunds for all of the accommodation, ferry and car hire costs. 
So, Mr and Mrs O made a claim with AWP for these unused costs.
Mr and Mrs O say AWP told them the claim wasnt covered under their policy terms. 
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs O brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said Mr and Mrs O had to 
cancel their trips because of the FCDO advice. He acknowledged that the policy didnt 
provide cancellation cover due to a change in FCDO advice  but he also noted that the 
policy excluded cover if Mr and Mrs O travelled against this advice. 
Our investigator didnt think it was fair that the policy didnt cover Mr and Mrs O if they didnt 
travel, but it also didnt cover them if they did travel. This was because he didnt think AWP 
had done enough to highlight these terms to Mr and Mrs O, and due to the significant 
imbalance this created between AWP and Mr and Mrs O. So, our investigator said AWP 
should reassess the claim.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators findings. So, as no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
The policy documentation
Ive accessed a copy of terms and conditions, as well as the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID), of a travel insurance policy provided by AWP online. This is the same 
brand of insurance that Mr and Mrs O held, both documents are dated January 2019, and 
the policy reference matches the reference in the screenshot Mr and Mrs O sent to us of the 
policy they were given. On balance, I think its likely these terms and conditions, or a version 
which was very similar in scope, apply in the circumstances of this complaint. These are also 
the terms our investigator relied on, and neither party has disputed them.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this complaint. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint.
The IPID summarises the cover available. It says on page 2 under Where am I covered? 
that: 
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Travel Advice Unit of 
the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised 
against travel, unless agreed otherwise with the insurer.
The policy terms and conditions say on page 14 under General Exclusions that:
10. You travelling to a country, specific area or event to which the Travel Advice unit of the 
British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised 
against travel, unless agreed by or on behalf of the insurer.
Was it unreasonable for AWP to decline the claim?
I think its fair and reasonable for AWP to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy. Ill explain why.
I think Mr and Mrs Os trip was cancelled because the FCDO advised against all but 
essential travel during the time they were due to travel. As our investigator set out, FCDO 
advice isnt something thats covered under the terms and conditions of the policy as its not 
a specific or listed insured event. However, taking into account the relevant law and industry 
guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
The exclusion that Ive outlined above means that if Mr and Mrs O had travelled abroad, they 
wouldnt have followed FCDO advice. So, they wouldnt have been covered by the policy 
terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, changes in FCDO 
guidance also arent covered  so they werent covered if they cancelled the trip because of 
this. That means that Mr and Mrs O werent covered if they didnt travel due FCDO advice, 
and they werent covered if they did travel due to FCDO advice. I dont think this was made 
sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs O.
Mr and Mrs O wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered, and to understand the full effect of 
the policy terms. I dont think this information was brought to their attention in a prominent 
and transparent way. So, I dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made 
sufficiently clear.I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr and Mrs O and 
AWP. At the time Mr and Mrs O bought the policy, there were other policies widely available 
on the market that wouldve covered this situation. On balance, I think its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs O wouldve purchased this policy if they had realised that there was no cover under the 
policy if the FCDO guidance changed after they had bought the policy. I think its more likely 
that they would have purchased a policy which covered them for cancellation due to a 
change in FCDO advice had they been given clearer information about what this policy 
covered.
Putting things right
AWP should treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. It should 
therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. To do 
that, AWP is entitled to ask Mr and Mrs O reasonable evidence in support of the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint against AWP P&C SA and direct it to put 
things right in the way that Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman