DRN-3444586
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) hasnt treated them 
fairly, following claims on their Buildmark building warranty policy.
During the claims and complaint, Mr and Mrs G have been represented by their solicitor. But 
for ease, Ill simply refer to Mr and Mrs G.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G built a residential property on farmland. The new-build property was covered 
by a ten-year building warranty policy, which started in October 2010. 
NHBC has, over the years, updated its policy terms. Importantly, Im only considering the 
policy terms that apply to Mr and Mrs G, as per their policy start date.
During the first two years of cover, section 2 of the policy applies. If a defect or damage is 
found to the home during the first two years, the builder is, in the first instance, responsible 
for putting those issues right. The policy defines a defect as a breach of any mandatory 
NHBC Requirement during construction, and damage is defined as physical damage 
caused by a defect. The definition for home includes paths, drives, and gardens.
However, if theres a dispute between the homeowner and the builder about issues raised 
during the first two years, NHBC can, at its discretion, offer its resolution service. If NHBC 
issues a resolution report requiring the builder to act and the report is accepted in full by 
the homeowner, but the builder fails to comply, NHBC becomes responsible for those 
required actions.
In addition, NHBC will become responsible for a) the builders obligations under section 2 if 
the builder is insolvent, and b) any court or arbitration awards made against the builder in 
relation to the builders obligations under section 2, if those awards arent settled.
During the final eight years of cover (i.e. years 3-10), sections 3, 4, and 5 apply:
- Section 3 covers a) damage in certain parts of the building, and b) defects in flues or 
chimneys if causing a present or imminent danger. 
- Section 4 covers the builders non-compliance with certain building regulations, if 
causing a present or imminent danger. Section 4 only applies if NHBC provided 
building control.
- Section 5 covers land contamination which has resulted in a statutory notice being 
served on the homeowners. In addition, NHBC can, at its sole discretion, provide 
cover if the homeowners reasonably believe a statutory notice could be served on 
them. The policy defines land as the ground that surrounds and supports the 
home. The definition of statutory notice refers to specific legislation.
Within the first two years of the policy, Mr and Mrs G told NHBC about numerous issues with 
their property. The issues included deposited asbestos in the topsoil around their land. The 
asbestos was from the farm outbuildings that had been demolished by the builder. They 
explained it was their intention to pursue claims under sections 2 and 5 of the policy.
NHBC maintained section 5 wasnt applicable as the contamination had been identified in 
years 0-2, and that a section 5 claim wouldnt succeed in any event. Theres been a lot of 
correspondence between the two parties, but Ill simply summarise the events and points 
that I consider to be important to my decision.
In 2014, in response to the section 2 claim, NHBC issued a resolution report. Mr and Mrs G 
didnt accept the report. Instead, they pursued their dispute with the builder via arbitration. 
In 2019, a further section 2 claim was made for the arbitration awards. Around the same 
time, Mr and Mrs G also told NHBC new issues had been identified whilst repairing the 
property. In 2021, NHBC paid out the section 2 policy limit for the arbitration awards.
In 2021, Mr and Mrs G complained. In summary, they said:
- NHBC hasnt dealt with their claims promptly and fairly. This has led to Mr and Mrs G 
incurring costs, whilst they disputed and negotiated with NHBC.
- NHBC failed to investigate the alleged defects, and rejected evidence provided by 
Mr and Mrs G, which made it impossible for them to accept the resolution report. 
They were also treated with hostility by NHBC. Mr and Mrs G were left with no 
option but to engage in costly arbitration.
- Whilst the arbitration awards included the cost of remediating the asbestos, only the 
areas that fall under the definition of home form part of the further section 2 claim. 
Theres still a section 5 claim to be made for the remaining areas of the land.
NHBC responded to the complaint. In summary, it said: 
- Because the resolution report wasnt accepted by Mr and Mrs G, there was nothing 
further NHBC could have done until it was presented with the arbitration awards. 
Once the key reports were received, NHBC promptly indicated it would pay the 
section 2 policy limit, and it made an interim payment whilst the terms of the 
settlement agreement were finalised.
- Given the asbestos was identified during years 0-2, the issue is solely a section 2 
claim. Section 5 only applies to contamination identified during years 3-10.
- In any event, the contamination has been in place for 12 years and the local authority 
hasnt indicated it intends to issue a statutory notice. NHBC considers it unlikely the 
local authority would issue a statutory notice, and if it were to, the notice would be 
served on the builders company directors.
- If NHBC were to accept the section 5 claim, it would be limited to the policy definition 
of land. Mr and Mrs Gs home is situated on 30 acres of land, and the definition 
doesnt cover all the land owned. Much of the land immediately adjacent to their 
home has already been covered by the section 2 claim settlement. 
Mr and Mrs G referred their complaint to our service. One of our investigators didnt think we 
could consider parts of the complaint. He didnt uphold the parts he did consider. Because
Mr and Mrs G disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision setting out what points we can, and cant, consider. 
In my decision, I explained that we cant consider any matters relating to the initial section 2 
claim and NHBCs resolution service. That includes its investigation and conduct leading up 
to the resolution report, the requirement for the resolution report to be accepted in full, and 
the legal and arbitration costs Mr and Mrs G say they incurred due to the handling of their 
initial section 2 claim.
I will now set out my findings about the matters we can consider. Those are, the section 5 
claim, the further issues discovered during the property repairs, the costs incurred whilst 
disputing the section 5 claim, and the costs incurred whilst making the further section 2 
claim in respect of the arbitration awards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive carefully considered all the submissions, it isnt my role to comment on every 
point made. Its for me to determine the crux of the complaint, and to address the issues 
I consider relevant to its outcome. Where Ive not directly commented on points that are 
within our jurisdiction, this isnt intended as a discourtesy. Its simply a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service, its remit, and my role in it. 
The section 5 claim
Mr and Mrs G argue the remaining contaminated land, that didnt form part of the section 2 
claim settlement for the arbitration awards, can be claimed under section 5 which has a 
separate policy limit.
There are potentially three questions that need to be considered here:
a) Can a section 5 claim be made given the contamination was identified during the first 
two years of the policy?
b) If a section 5 claim can be made, does the remaining land in question fall within the 
policy definition of land, i.e. does it surround and support the home?
c) If a section 5 claim can be made and the remaining land in question falls within the 
policy definition of land, bearing in mind a statutory notice hasnt been issued, is 
NHBC exercising its sole discretion fairly by declining the claim?
The policy terms explain the notification period for a section 5 claim is years 3-10. The terms 
also explain NHBC wont be liable for anything that was (or could have been) notified to the 
builder in years 0-2 as per its responsibilities under section 2, or was (or could have been) 
subject to a valid section 2 claim had the builder not met its responsibilities.
Mr and Mrs G argue that section 2 only covers the home, and the policy definition of home 
doesnt extend to the wider land beyond the paths, drives, and garden. As such, they argue 
the contaminated land beyond the paths, drives, and garden couldnt have been notified to 
the builder within years 0-2 or been the subject of a valid section 2 claim. In my view, their 
arguments arent without merit. I also note the resolution report refers to asbestos left in 
garden areas, so its not clear if the wider land was being considered under section 2. However, even if I were to accept the wider land wasnt, or couldnt have been, considered 
under section 2, that wouldnt automatically lead me to conclude it could be claimed under 
section 5. In respect of question b, I accept theres a reasonable question about whether 
the wider land can reasonably be said to be supporting the home. So, its questionable 
whether the wider land is covered at all, regardless of when the contamination was 
discovered.
But importantly, for this complaint, I dont need to consider question b or make a finding on 
whether the wider land is supporting the home. Having considered the policy terms, Im not 
persuaded a section 5 claim can be made given the contamination was identified during 
years 0-2, i.e. Im persuaded the claim fails on question a.
I say this because, the cover is clearly divided into three separate periods: before completion 
(section 1), years 0-2 (section 2), and years 3-10 (sections 3, 4, and 5). The policy terms are 
clear the builder is responsible for any issues with the home that are identified during years 
0-2, unless NHBC becomes responsible following the operation of its resolution service, the 
builder is insolvent, or court or arbitration awards havent been settled. If section 5 provided 
additional cover for contamination identified during years 0-2, on top of section 2, I would 
reasonably expect that to be set out in the policy terms and for the section 5 notification 
period to start from year zero. But that isnt the case.
Ultimately, it wouldnt be logical, in my view, to conclude section 5 covers contamination that 
had been identified during years 0-2 when the homeowner cant claim under section 5 until 
year three. Particularly, given the policy clearly places responsibility on the builder for any 
issues that arise during the first two years and NHBC only becomes responsible for those 
issues if specific criteria are met.
Theres been a lot of correspondence between the parties about whether Mr and Mrs G hold 
a reasonable belief a statutory notice could be served on them. However, like question b, 
I dont need to consider question c either.
The further issues discovered during the property repairs
In 2019, around the time the arbitration awards were presented to NHBC, Mr and Mrs G 
explained they had discovered further and more extensive structural issues during the 
repairs, which they wished to claim for. 
If indeed they were new issues, sections 3 and 4 would potentially apply. This is because, 
those issues had been discovered during years 3-10.
However, theres a single policy limit for sections 2 and 3. As such, given NHBC had agreed 
to pay that policy limit in respect of the section 2 claim for the arbitration awards, there was 
no section 3 claim to be made. Section 4 only applies if NHBC provided building control 
during construction, which isnt the case here. 
Therefore, it follows that NHBC didnt need to act in relation to the further issues identified 
during years 3-10.
The costs incurred whilst disputing the section 5 claim
Theres been protracted correspondence between the parties legal representatives, about 
whether a section 5 claim should succeed. However, based on what Ive seen, that 
correspondence was largely initiated, and continued, by Mr and Mrs G. NHBC stated from the outset it didnt consider section 5 to be the appropriate policy section 
given the contaminated land had been identified during years 0-2, and that in any event, a 
section 5 claim wouldnt succeed due to the statutory notice requirement. Mr and Mrs G 
could have referred a complaint to our service about those matters for free, rather than 
engaging in costly legal correspondence.
I havent seen anything that leads me to believe NHBC is responsible for Mr and Mrs Gs 
decision to instruct a solicitor, or for the costs they incurred debating the section 5 claim. 
Particularly, as Im not persuaded NHBC unfairly declined the claim.
The costs incurred whilst making the further section 2 claim
Mr and Mrs G say NHBC unfairly challenged their further section 2 claim for the arbitration 
awards, and only accepted it after considerable expenditure was incurred by them. They 
also say NHBC caused delays by attempting to exclude all future claims and the right to 
refer to our service from the settlement agreement.
NHBC says it quickly accepted the claim after the key reports were received. It also says the 
delays were caused by Mr and Mrs G taking time to provide the necessary information and 
respond to correspondence, and by them requesting changes to the settlement agreement 
so they could preserve their right to claim under section 5. 
NHBC also questions the legal costs being claimed by Mr and Mrs G, in relation to their 
further section 2 claim.
Ultimately, I havent seen anything that shows NHBC acted unreasonably, caused delays, or 
proposed unfair settlement terms following Mr and Mrs Gs section 2 claim for the arbitration 
awards. Again, I havent seen anything that leads me to believe NHBC is responsible for 
Mr and Mrs Gs decision to instruct a solicitor, or for the costs they incurred in relation to 
their further section 2 claim.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman