DRN-2927209
The complaint
Mr H complains about a decision by National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) to close a 
credit card account he had with them due to it being in persistent debt.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set rules (CONC 6.7.27 to 6.7.31) about persistent 
debt that companies such as Nat West have to follow. They define persistent debt as when 
a consumer has paid more in interest, fees, and charges than theyve repaid towards the 
capital they owe over the previous 18 months. The FCA require businesses to assess 
whether a customer falls within this definition and when they identify thats the case the rules 
require a business to send letters to the consumer 18, 27 and 36 months after the account 
falls into persistent debt.
Here Nat West identified that Mr Hs account met, and continued to meet, the FCAs 
definition of persistent debt and I can see that they sent the letters they were obligated to 
send to Mr H after 18, 27 and 36 months. Whilst I understand Mr H disputes receiving all of 
those letters Nat West have provided system information to suggest the letters were 
dispatched, they have the same address on file as we do, and I think its therefore likely that 
they were sent.  
Those letters explained, amongst other things, why they thought Mr H was in persistent debt 
and why increasing payments would reduce the cost of the borrowing. They also 
encouraged Mr H to get in touch so they could provide advice. The letters explained that the 
rules meant the account would eventually need to be closed if insufficient action was taken. 
That was to enable Mr H to get on top of the debt.
I think the letters Nat West sent complied with the FCA rules and that their assessment the 
account was in persistent debt was correct. As insufficient action was taken by Mr H Nat 
West eventually closed the account and offered repayment options and I think that was in 
line with the rules the FCA set for them.
Mr H thinks it is unreasonable for Nat West to have applied the persistent debt rules in 
August 2018 as they referred to persistent debt that preceded the date the rules on 
persistent debt came into place. But the rules dont forbid that. They say a firm must assess 
the amount the customer has paid over the immediately preceding 18-month period and that 
may therefore predate the date the rules came into force. So, I dont agree that Nat West 
were wrong to issue the 18 month letter. And it follows that when inadequate action was 
taken to reverse the situation they were required by the rules to issue letters at 27 and 36 
months.
Mr H says that Nat West failed to communicate the change to the conditions of the card. The 
18-month letter gave Mr H notice of the changes that would be applied to his credit limit and 
to his credit card terms and conditions in order that Nat West could comply with the new 
FCA rules. I think that letter adequately explained what was changing and provided 
reasonable notice of those changes. I dont think it would be fair to suggest the 
communication of the change was unclear or inadequate.
I understand that Mr H wanted Nat West to delay any action whilst his complaint was being 
reviewed but I dont think Nat West were compelled to do that. Had they suspended the 
action it would have delayed the activity required for Mr H to get on top of his mounting credit 
card debt.
I understand Mr Hs concern that hes had a long relationship with his bank and he wouldve 
expected them to be more understanding given the knowledge they had of his previous 
financial conduct. But, as Ive explained already, whilst I understand Mr Hs strength of 
feeling I think Nat West did what they were obliged to do here and that they followed the 
FCAs rules as intended. The options they presented in their 36 month letter were 
reasonable and in the absence of any action from Mr H the rules explained they could cancel 
the use of the credit card.
Im not persuaded that Nat West have done anything wrong here and Im not asking them to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman