DRN-3962795
The complaint
Miss G complains that UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line incorrectly accepted 
liability on her behalf following a collision, without considering all the circumstances.  
What happened
In June 2022 Miss Gs car was hit whilst she was parked in a motorway services car park. 
Miss G was opening the door of her parked car as another car drove into the space next to 
her and hit her open door. Miss G says that the car was driving in excess of the speed limit 
in the car park and the driver gave her incorrect details before driving off. 
The third-party insurer denied liability saying that Miss G opened her car door into the path 
of the third-party vehicle and provided dash cam footage of the few seconds prior to the 
collision. 
Direct Line considered that given the dash cam footage, there wasnt a realistic prospect of 
succeeding at court, and so they accepted liability, recorded it as a fault claim, and Miss G 
had to pay her excess. 
Miss G was unhappy about this and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Gs complaint but thought that Direct Line had 
acted fairly.  
Miss G disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide is whether Direct Line have acted fairly and reasonably in accepting liability 
and in dealing with Miss Gs claim.  
Ive carefully considered the information provided by Miss G and Direct Line. However, Im 
not upholding this complaint and I will explain why. 
At page 33 of the policy it says:
When we can act on your behalf
We're entitled to do either of the following:
Take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your 
name, or in the name of any other person covered by this policy.
This means that under the terms of the policy Direct Line are entitled to settle a claim as they 
see fit, provided they do so fairly and reasonably, even if it goes against the wishes of the 
policyholder. 
So, Ive looked at the evidence that Direct Line have considered when coming to the 
decision to accept liability and thought about whether this decision was reached fairly and 
reasonably.  Ive viewed and considered the dash cam footage from the third-party vehicle, 
and the witness statement.  
I can see from the claim notes that Direct Line accepted liability after receiving and viewing 
the dash cam footage, but before receiving the witness statement. 
The dash cam footage is clear, but it is only a few seconds long. However, I consider it is 
long enough to show what happened. It starts with the third-party car around two car lengths 
behind Miss Gs car, approaching the parking space. Miss Gs car door is shut at that point. 
Slowing down the footage shows that Miss G doesnt start to open her car door until the 
third-party car is almost entering the space next to her car and is only around 3 metres from 
Miss Gs drivers door. 
So, I consider that even if the third party car was travelling at speed, if Miss G had looked in 
her wing mirror before opening the door, the third party car was close enough that it would 
have been visible to her.  And so, I think it was reasonable for Direct Line to conclude that 
she hadnt looked in the mirror and take the view that a court would be likely to find her liable 
despite the actions of the other driver. 
Miss G and the witness have both said that the third party was driving at speed, and she cut 
round the back of the coaches, and then drove across the parking bays. They have both 
stated that in their opinion the driver was not taking appropriate care when driving across the 
bays. However, Miss G didnt actually observe the actions of the other driver prior to the 
collision, and so I cant give any weight to her testimony in that respect. 
The witness is independent, and Direct Line have accepted his testimony about the speed 
and nature of the third-parties driving, but having weighed up the witness evidence against 
the dash cam footage, they are satisfied that if the matter went to court, the court would 
place more weight on the dash cam footage and they wouldnt be able to defend the claim. I 
am satisfied that Direct Line have reached this decision reasonably on the evidence they 
have.
 
I can appreciate how strongly Miss G feels about this, and I can see why she would consider 
the fault lies with the other party, but I hope that I have explained why I am satisfied that 
Direct Lline have reached their decision fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint, and I will not therefore be 
asking UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman