DRN-3372227
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that they were mis-sole a timeshare product. Because they paid for it 
in part using Mr As credit card, issued by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclaycard), they say 
that Barclaycard is equally liable with the seller of the timeshare.    
Mr and Mrs A have been represented in bringing this complaint, so where I refer to their 
submissions and arguments, I include those made on their behalf. 
What happened
On 31 March 2007 Mr and Mrs A agreed to buy a timeshare from Westgate Lakes, LLC, a 
company incorporated in Florida. To pay for the timeshare unit, also located in Florida, Mr 
and Mrs A took a secured loan from the seller. They also made a part payment of £7,604.74 
using Mr As credit card. His account was debited on 30 April 2007.  
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs A complained to Barclaycard. They said, amongst other 
things, that the timeshare had been misrepresented to them, they had been subjected to 
pressured sales techniques, the seller had breached The Timeshare, Holiday Products, 
Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the Timeshare Regulations) and that 
the contract had not been properly explained to them. 
Mr and Mrs A said that, because Barclaycard had partly funded the purchase, it was liable to 
them in the same way as the seller. They said too that the circumstances of the sale meant 
that the credit card agreement created an unfair agreement within the meaning of section 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. They also said that Barclaycard had not properly 
assessed whether the credit facility was affordable for Mr A. 
Barclaycard did not uphold the complaint, primarily because of the time that had passed 
between the sale and any concern being raised.
Mr and Mrs A referred the matter to this service. Our investigators were however broadly in 
agreement with Barclaycards assessment  namely, the matter had been raised outside 
relevant time limits. Mr and Mrs A did not accept their assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although this complaint was referred to this service on behalf of Mr and Mrs A, the credit 
card account was in his name only, so only Mr A has a relationship with Barclaycard which 
entitles him to bring this complaint. I shall refer therefore to his complaint. 
I would comment too that the Timeshare Regulations, on which Mr A seeks to rely, did not 
apply here. Notwithstanding my later comments on the applicable law in relation to the sale, 
they did not come into force until February 2011.   
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
Mr A says that Barclaycard did not properly assess whether he could afford to repay the 
credit facility. His representative referred to the rules and guidance in the part of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook which deals with consumer credit, known as 
CONC. Since the lending pre-dates the FCAs regulation of consumer credit activities, 
however, CONC did not apply at the time. I would nevertheless expect lenders to have 
assessed the affordability of loans in line with guidance issued by, for example, the Office of 
Fair Trading (OFT), the Lending Standards Board and the Finance and Leasing Association. 
There was no credit assessment carried out when Mr A bought the timeshare. That would 
have happened when Barclaycard set or changed the credit limit on the account. He has 
provided no information about that, or provided any evidence of difficulties he may have had 
in making payments, either as a result of the timeshare purchase or otherwise. 
Our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is referred to us 
within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which 
the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the setting of the credit limit, which must have been 
done at some point before 30 April 2007. Its arguable therefore that this part of the 
complaint has been brought outside the time limits in our own rules. Even if I were to take a 
different view on that, however (perhaps because Mr A did not know what checks were 
required), I have seen no evidence that the credit limit was inappropriate or led to difficulties. 
 Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
One effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach of contract 
or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring that claim 
against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
Lending includes lending under a credit card facility, and the arrangements under which 
merchants can take credit card payments are in this case sufficiently close to amount to pre-
existing arrangements.  
I must therefore consider what Mr A has said about his claims in respect of the timeshare 
sale in this case.
Misrepresentation
I note in this case that the sale concerned a timeshare property located in Florida. Its likely 
therefore that the sale contract was governed by Florida law. Neither party has submitted 
any evidence of Florida law, however. I have therefore approached this complaint on the 
basis that there are no material differences between the legal position in Florida and the 
position in England, where Mr A resides.  
In English law, a misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, 
made by one party to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other 
party into the contract. There is little detail in this case about what was said to Mr A at the 
time of the sale. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr A into the timeshare contract were made on or before 31 March 2007. He did not however raise any concerns 
with Barclaycard until November 2018, more than eleven years later. I think it very likely 
therefore that a court would conclude that any claim against the seller was made outside the 
time limit in the Limitation Act. Were a claim made against Barclaycard, it would be able to 
rely on the same defences as the seller. In the circumstances, I think its response to the 
claim was reasonable. 
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. 
In considering claims under this part of the Consumer Credit Act, a court can have regard to 
any connected agreement, which can include an underlying contract financed with the credit 
agreement. In this case, the credit agreement was that for the provision of the credit card. It 
was not directly linked to the timeshare agreement, in the sense that it had already been 
entered into and could be used for purchases wholly unrelated to the timeshare, not just for 
the timeshare itself. 
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. I note that Mr As credit card balance was 
zero in October 2012, so it seems that any unfair relationship which could have arisen in 
connection with the timeshare purchase must have ended by then. It may have ended even 
before that, however, depending on movements on the account. 
Again, I think that it was reasonable for Barclaycard to conclude that a court would be 
unlikely to entertain such a claim and to decline it.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is not to uphold Mr As complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman