DRN-4115237
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy because he says that Saga Services Limited mis-sold him a private medical 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H took out a private medical insurance policy, sold by Saga Services Limited. The policy 
was underwritten by an insurer Ill refer to as A. The policy had a moratorium which meant 
that claims for pre-existing conditions were excluded for two years.
Mr H made a claim on the policy because he wanted an MRI scan of his knee. He had 
arthritis in his knee, but the pain had got worse. The claim was declined by A because Mr H 
had been taking over the counter painkillers for pain in his knee. A said that this meant Mr H 
had been having ongoing treatment for the pain.
Mr H complained to Saga because he said this interpretation of ongoing treatment needed to 
be made much clearer in the policy terms. He also said the policy literature referred to 
unlimited MRI scans. So, he didnt think it was fair that A had declined to cover the MRI scan 
to diagnose what had caused the increase in pain.
Saga issued a final response letter. They said that the advisor had explained the policy 
terms in relation to the moratorium, including the terms about over the counter medication.
And, they said the policy documents sent to Mr H also explained this information. They said 
that A would not pay for scans to diagnose a condition they thought was pre-existing. Mr H 
was unhappy with Sagas response and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
the claim had been fairly declined. Mr H said, in summary, that there had been a breach of 
contract and he didnt think hed got the product that was advertised and described to him by 
Saga. Mr H asked an ombudsman to review his complaint.
In April 2023 I issued a provisional decision saying that I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The decline of the claim
A is the insurer who underwrites Mr Hs policy. So, A decides whether a claim should 
be accepted or declined. Thats not something that Saga is responsible for. My 
decision will therefore focus on whether Saga mis-sold the policy to Mr H.
I can see that Mr H made a complaint to A. If Mr H wishes to pursue that aspect of 
his complaint, hell need to let our investigator know that he wants the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to look into a complaint about A.
The mis-sale of the policy
Ive not seen evidence that Mr H was advised to take out the policy. He did speak to 
Saga but I dont think that means they gave him advice about whether the policy was 
right for him.
As the sale wasnt advised the relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Saga 
needed to give Mr H enough information to decide if the policy was right for him. That 
included giving information which was clear, fair and not misleading.
Im not intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint because:
The term relating to the taking of over the counter medication was explained 
in the call. Mr H had the opportunity to ask for more information about this if 
he wanted to.
I think the policy terms and conditions clearly set out the moratorium and the 
limitations of the policy in relation to pre-existing conditions. The policy 
document explains that in order to claim for a pre-existing condition the 
policyholder will need to be trouble free for at least two years. The definition 
of trouble free explains that will be when the policyholder has not taken any 
medication (including over the counter drugs).
Ive taken into account the advertising document Mr H has referred to. This 
says that the policy offers unlimited MRI scans. But I still think its reasonable 
to conclude this would be subject to the overarching policy terms even if this 
wasnt specifically highlighted. So, this point hasnt changed my thoughts 
about the overall outcome of this complaint. 
Saga responded to say that they didnt have any further comments. Mr H said that under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) the terms of a contract needed to be clear, fair, 
unambiguous and not mis-leading. He said that Sagas repeated advertising that there were 
unlimited MRI scans didnt meet this criteria. Mr H also didnt think it was fair for the insurer 
to decline to cover a diagnostic test when it was unclear whether the problem was caused by 
a pre-existing condition or not. He said this was how Saga promoted the purchase of the 
policy.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account Mr Hs further representations but they havent changed my thoughts 
about the overall outcome of this complaint. I say that because: 
I dont think the advertising in relation to the unlimited MRI scans means the contract 
terms were unfair  the adverts are separate to the contract of insurance. And, I still 
think its reasonable to conclude that this information would still be subject to the 
overarching policy terms. If Mr H is unhappy with how the product has been 
advertised then hell need to refer that to the relevant body which considers 
complaints about advertising standards.
Ive taken into account the CRA 2015. Im not persuaded that the term relating to MRI 
scans is a core contractual term. But, in any event, I think the policy terms and 
conditions make it sufficiently clear that there are limitations on the circumstances in which the insurer would cover MRI scans. I think thats presented in such a way that 
that it was brought to Mr Hs attention and expressed in sufficiently plain language. I 
also note that Mr H had a cooling off period, in which he could cancel the policy. So, 
I think he had a fair opportunity to understand and consider the policy terms.
Mr H remains unhappy that A declined the claim before they knew whether the 
medical problem was caused by a pre-existing condition. Thats not something Saga 
is responsible for. If Mr H has further information which demonstrates the cause of 
the condition was not pre-existing he may wish to provide this to A to consider as our 
investigator suggested. Mr H chose not to provide information when our investigator 
asked for information about the outcome of the self-funded scan. 
I remain satisfied Saga drew the relevant terms to Mr Hs attention and that he had 
enough information to decide if the policy was right for him. The policy covers 
eligible diagnostic tests. Eligible diagnostics test means treatments and charges 
covered by the policy, subject to the policy terms, benefits and exclusions. 
Therefore, this is still subject to the relevant general exclusion relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions.    
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman