DRN-3589383
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt send him a replacement debit 
card. 
What happened
Mr H travelled to Dubai for work in October 2018. Later, he was caught in Dubai because of 
the pandemic and the restrictions on travel. His debit card expired in October 2020. A new 
card was sent to Mr Hs UK address in November 2020. In March 2021, a replacement card 
was sent to his Dubai address.
Mr H complained. He said he had called Barclays in October 2018 to ask what would 
happen if he needed to get a replacement debit card while he was away  and was told he 
could be sent one. As a result of what happened, from October/November 2020, he had no 
access to his bank account for an extended period  this caused him a lot of stress and 
worry, and he said he had to call Barclays many times to try to sort things out. He said his 
call costs were £800. 
Barclays apologised for the poor service Mr H had experienced and offered £200 
compensation. They said that as part of their processes, Barclays mobile banking app could 
only work with a UK mobile number. And so  Mr H couldnt use his Dubai mobile for that 
purpose.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked at what had happened. He said 
Barclays should increase their offer to £300. Barclays couldnt say if Mr H had called to order 
a new debit card or not but accepted that he probably did  and so had offered 
compensation of £200. Our investigator agreed that Mr H must have called Barclays on 
several occasions to try to get a replacement debit card. As it was, a new card was sent 
later, in March 2021  meaning Mr H didnt have a working debit card in Dubai between 
October 2020 and that time.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the compensation should be higher. Barclays agreed with our 
investigators view. Mr H asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays cant be certain whether or not Mr H called them to ask for a new debit card  their 
records show he asked for a new Barclaycard, and on the balance of probabilities they, and 
we, accept that he also asked for a debit card. Barclays can only evidence some calls made 
in December 2020  which only cover the Barclaycard.
I can see that the effect of this was that Mr H couldnt access internet banking or mobile 
banking while he was away, and between November 2020 and March 2021. This was 
because to do so, he needed either a working, current debit card (which he didnt have) or a 
UK mobile phone number (which he didnt have). And so  he couldnt see what was 
happening on his UK bank accounts with Barclays. I can see this must have been worrying 
and stressful for Mr H. 
But equally, Ive looked at Mr Hs UK bank account statements  and regular direct debits 
were being paid out, and regular credits received. They were to and from UK entities. Before 
October 2020, the account wasnt used for international /Dubai purposes. There was a credit 
balance and no overdraft or interest and charges. So  while Im sure it was concerning for 
Mr H that he couldnt see his UK bank account information, there werent any obvious 
problems caused. And  if Mr H needed to get the balance and transactions on his account, 
he couldve called Barclays in the UK to get that information  although I again accept that 
Mr H will feel that wasnt a viable option because of the cost of calls from Dubai to the UK.
I have no doubt the whole episode was frustrating, time consuming and stressful for Mr H. 
And so  what this comes down to is the appropriate amount of compensation to be paid. 
Barclays have offered (but not yet paid) £200, and our investigator says another £100 should 
be paid.
In considering this, I must consider the extent of inconvenience and costs to Mr H. Here, we 
asked Mr H for evidence of the call costs he incurred when calling Barclays. But 
unfortunately, he hasnt been able to provide these  as his Dubai mobile phone account 
was closed when he left. Unfortunately, its not possible to consider an award for call costs if 
we dont know what they are.
And  we asked him also if he had an alternative bank account from another provider while 
was in Dubai. I asked this as I could see that there were only a few transactions on his 
Barclays account during 2020  usually three or four direct debits each month, and one or 
two monthly credits. No monthly salary was credited to the account. Mr H didnt reply, and 
therefore I must assume that on the balance of probabilities, he was able to obtain, and use 
another bank account for his day to day needs in Dubai.  This will have reduced the extent of 
inconvenience to Mr H.
(continued)
Putting things right
Our service has set down criteria for considering awards. We say an award between £100 
and £300 might be suitable where there have been repeated small errors, or a larger single 
mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. And I think that on balance, Mr Hs 
complaint falls into this category. Therefore, I agree that a further payment of £100 should be 
made  bringing the compensation to £300. I know Mr H will be disappointed by this  as he 
was expecting more  but I am satisfied this is the right amount.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC  must:
Pay compensation of £300 for stress and inconvenience. This assumes that Barclays offer of £200 made in May 2021 hasnt been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman