DRN-2315406
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice he received from Legal & General (Portfolio Management 
Services) Ltd to take out a maxi stocks and shares ISA in 2001 as a repayment vehicle for 
an interest only mortgage. He says it was unsuitable, there was no evidence his attitude to 
risk was assessed, he didnt want flexibility given his age and the funds were extremely high 
risk. 
Mr S is being represented in his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
What happened
In 2001 Mr S and his partner were re-mortgaging their property to raise funds so his partner 
could buy a new property. The existing mortgage was an endowment mortgage. Mr S 
completed a financial review with an adviser, although he was reluctant to provide full 
information. He was self-employed earning approximately £60,000 a year but this could 
fluctuate. He was looking to borrow £85,000 over a 15-year term. He did not have any 
dependants at the time.  The fact-find records that Mr S had existing investments and that he 
had a medium attitude to risk  he was prepared to accept some capital risk to achieve 
greater growth. 
Mr S was advised to invest into a maxi ISA as this matched his aim in having the ability to 
stop and start payments, make withdrawals and add lump sum payments, due to his income 
fluctuations. The ISA had a premium of £300 a month and although the ISA was open 
ended, if it achieved 7% growth it would reach the required target amount of £85,000 in 15 
years. He invested into a number of different funds. 
In 2008, Mr S cashed in the ISA as it wasnt performing as expected. He says he was 
advised to change to an endowment policy to repay his mortgage. 
Mr S complained about the advice in 2019. Legal & General didnt uphold his complaint as it 
was satisfied the recommendation was suitable for him. Our investigator was also satisfied 
the recommendation was suitable. 
The CMC has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. It said:
When the ISA was recommended problems with endowments/ISAs were widely 
known. The only method of guaranteeing the mortgage was repaid was to take a 
repayment mortgage. This would have presented no risk and overpayments could 
have been made. 
Mr Ss stop start approach to paying premiums and making withdrawals shows he 
clearly didnt understand the risk associated with the product or that he might not 
have the funds needed to repay his mortgage. 
It doesnt believe his occupation gave him any financial acumen to understand the 
unsuitable product. It considers the recommendation was likely commission led. 
The CMC had also argued a term of 25 years would have put Mr S under immense financial 
pressure as his income levels would have greatly reduced on retirement at 65. Our 
investigator pointed out the ISA was open ended, but the mortgage had a term of 15 years 
not 25. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CMC has argued that problems with endowment policies and ISAs were well known at 
the time Mr S was advised to take out this ISA. I dont disagree that there was a lot of press 
about endowment policies at the time and the regulator had instigated a projection letter 
exercise. But that of itself doesnt make a recommendation unsuitable if a person is willing to 
accept investment risk. 
Mr S completed a fact-find with the adviser, which he signed to say the information it 
contained was correct. He was also sent a reason why letter setting out the reasons for the 
advisers recommendation. I havent seen any evidence, nor has M S sought to argue, the 
information contained in either of the documents was incorrect or not an accurate reflection 
of the discussions had at the time. These are contemporaneous records which I find more 
persuasive and place greater weight on than, Mr Ss submissions made some 18 years later.
Having considered the matter carefully, including the arguments made by the CMC, Im 
satisfied the recommendation to take out a maxi ISA was suitable for Mr S. I find this 
because:
Mr S already had an existing interest only mortgage supported by an endowment. 
And the fact-find records that he held investments although these werent known (or 
disclosed) at the time. So Mr S already had experience of investing. 
The fact-find records that Mr S had a medium attitude to risk  he was prepared to 
accept some risk with a variable return to achieve greater growth. Mr S invested into 
a number of different funds as he wanted to invest into a range of stocks and shares 
as per the reason why letter. Its my understanding the funds invested into were 
considered commensurate with that attitude to risk, bar one which was higher, and 
that was fully explained to Mr S. 
The reason why letter recorded that a discussion about the different types of 
mortgage took place, including that a repayment mortgage was guaranteed. So Im 
satisfied the adviser made Mr S aware of the different options available to him and 
that there was a no risk option. 
The reason why letter recorded that Mr S wanted his repayment vehicle to be as 
flexible as possible with the ability to stop and start payments as required, and to 
make lump sum payments and withdrawals.  The maxi ISA recommended gave Mr S 
that flexibility. Although I accept a repayment mortgage might have allowed 
overpayments, it wouldnt have provided the other flexibility. The CMC has also 
argued that Mr S didnt want this flexibility  but that isnt borne out by the evidence. 
Mr S did stop and start payments, did make lump sum payments and cash 
withdrawals. I therefore dont find its arguments persuasive.  
The CMC has argued Mr S stopping and starting premiums is evidence that he didnt 
understand the risk associated with the product. I disagree. Him stopping and starting 
payments is evidence of the flexibility he said he wanted at the time. And the reason 
why letter clearly set out the risk of investing in the ISA several times; he was told an 
interest only mortgages involve a degree of risk; an investment vehicle is designed to 
build up a lump sum to pay off a mortgage but isnt guaranteed; Mr S is prepared to 
accept investment risk; the sum payable at maturity depends on future market 
performance and is subject to stock market fluctuations.   The CMC has argued that a repayment mortgage was the only method of 
guaranteeing mortgage repayment. I dont disagree with this. But the fact-find gave 
Mr S the option of choosing a guaranteed method, but he instead said he was happy 
to accept risk.  And when he stopped his ISA in 2008, he didnt change his mortgage 
to repayment but to an endowment policy, which also isnt guaranteed.  
As I have found the recommendation for Mr S to use a maxi ISA for mortgage repayment 
suitable for his needs and circumstances at the time, I dont uphold this complaint and I 
make no award against Legal & General. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman