DRN-3063054
The complaint
Mr M complained that Bamboo Limited irresponsibly provided him with unaffordable 
loans.
What happened
Bamboo provided Mr M with loans as follows:
Date Amount TermMonthly 
Repayment
Loan 1 22/10/2018 £2,000 24 months £138.19
Loan 2 14/05/2019£635.10
additional funds 24 months £163.51
Loan 3 23/12/2019£764.50
additional funds 36 months £156.01
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint about all three loans. She set out the steps 
Bamboo needed to take to put things right. 
Mr M is happy to settle the complaint in the way our investigator recommended.
Bamboo disagreed with our investigators view. 
In brief summary, it said that during the application process it carried out an affordability 
assessment on each of Mr M's loans and they were all demonstrated to have been 
sustainably affordable for him. 
Bamboo said that although it didnt think it had needed to ask for bank statements at the 
time, having now seen these, they made no difference to its lending decisions. It said Mr M 
may have had some cash flow issues from time to time and used payday loans on occasions 
 but he repaid them with no issues. Bamboo said that Mr Ms credit history was typical for 
its customers and not a concern. It said Mr M had a fantastic repayment history with 
Bamboo, the loans performed as expected, he was paying his priority bills and the credit he 
had and its loans had caused him no detriment.  
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ms case, I have considered 
the following questions:
 Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If it did, did Bamboo then make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Like our investigator, I dont think Bamboo shouldve provided any of these loans. Ill 
explain why I say this.
Bamboo asked Mr M some questions about his income and expenditure. Bamboo did its 
own checks, which included obtaining information about Mr Ms credit history and it relied on 
statistical information about how much someone in Mr Ms position typically spent each 
month on living costs. For loan 1, Bamboo recorded a figure of £1,641 for Mr Ms take home pay. Using national 
average figures to reflect his living costs and allowing for Mr M spending around £169 on his 
other credit commitments, Bamboo worked out that, after making the monthly repayments 
for this loan, Mr M would still have more than £1,000 spare cash. So the loan looked 
comfortably affordable for him. 
I've taken into account what Bamboo has said about how it calculated the affordability 
of this loan before it agreed to lend to Mr M. 
But, I dont think Bamboo made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr M based on 
the information it had gathered.
I say this because Bamboo was able to see from its credit checks that:
Mr M had already used 97% of his available credit
he owed more than £4,000 to existing creditors, which I think was a lot for 
someone in Mr Ms particular position, bearing in mind that he paid no rent or 
mortgage and he wasnt responsible for the usual household bills
within the previous 12 months he had been using credit cards to obtain cash 
advances (which is very expensive to do) and his credit cards were very close 
to their limit
he had taken out another large unsecured loan around 3 months earlier which 
had a balance at the time of £1,447
he was making full use of an arranged £1,200 overdraft on a current bank 
account
he had an old outstanding default balance with a telecommunications supplier 
towards which he was making no payments at all, despite the impact this had 
on his credit file.
I dont think Bamboo thought carefully enough about what this credit history showed 
about Mr Ms overall financial situation, especially bearing in mind it had calculated 
that he had disposable income of approximately £1,212 each month which, to my 
mind, wouldve seemed at odds with what it saw on the credit checks it had carried 
out. 
I think Bamboo should have considered carefully why someone with the amount of 
disposable income its checks suggested Mr M had would have needed to make use of 
expensive credit the way it could see Mr M was doing. 
And I dont think, based on what Bamboo had in front of it, I can fairly say that Bamboo 
saw enough to reasonably be satisfied that Mr M was going to be able to make the 
repayments for this loan in a sustainable way. 
Although the reason Mr M gave for the loan purpose was debt consolidation (in other 
words, he told Bamboo that he would use the loan to repay other debt) I think that 
further checks ought to have been done to gain a deeper understanding of Mr Ms 
financial circumstances, particularly bearing in mind that he would be making the loan 
repayments for the next two years. 
I dont think its checks were proportionate because, to my mind, the amount borrowed, the 
total repayments Mr M would have to make for this loan and the length of the loan term all 
lead me to think, on balance, that Bamboo should have carried out a complete review of 
Mr Ms finances and done more to verify what he had told it  especially bearing in mind also 
what it saw on the credit checks it did carry out.I've looked at bank statements provided by Mr M which I think are a useful guide to 
understanding Mr Ms overall financial situation at the time  and I am aware that these have 
also been seen now by Bamboo. I've taken into account that Bamboo considers that the 
bank statements demonstrate that the loans were affordable and that Mr M was choosing to 
spend a significant proportion of his disposable income on discretionary expenditure.
But I think, if Bamboo had done a proportionate check before lending, it wouldve seen 
nothing to reassure it that this loan was going to be sustainably affordable for Mr M. I can 
see that, far from having the amount of disposable income left over each month that Bamboo 
had calculated, in reality Mr M was struggling to get his bank account into credit. In the three 
months running up to him applying for loan 1, the account was generally overdrawn by a four 
figure amount. 
I think that Bamboo wouldve likely found out, had it done a proportionate check before 
agreeing loan 1, that Mr M was also spending regular amounts on what appear to be online 
gambling transactions. Whilst these payments were for small amounts at a time and would 
not have been excessive for someone with the amount of disposable income Bamboo had 
calculated Mr M should have, in reality his bank statements show that he was gambling with 
borrowed money and funding the account by taking loans from other providers of high cost 
credit at a time when the account was already substantially overdrawn and incurring daily 
overdraft fees.
All of this should have led Bamboo to the conclusion that Mr M was not managing his 
financial situation effectively. And I think that Bamboo shouldve realised that this loan wasnt 
going to be sustainably affordable for Mr M when he was already struggling to get through 
the month without needing to rely on credit, not making any real headway towards clearing 
his outstanding debts, spending recklessly and he had other new debt that needed to be 
paid alongside this loan from Bamboo. 
I have considered that Bamboos records indicate that Mr M intended to use this loan to 
consolidate some of his other debts and Bamboo pointed out that it could have cleared his 
revolving credit balance (in other words, paid his credit cards). But I think that what Bamboo 
saw on its credit checks about Mr Ms use of credit, and in particular his reliance on using 
credit cards for cash advances, would suggest that he would likely remain in serious 
financial trouble regardless once credit was made available on his cards again. 
And given the scale of his debts, which stood at around twice the value of the loan, I dont 
think I can safely say this wouldve helped Mr Ms overall position sufficiently to achieve a 
significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation. 
So I dont currently think Bamboo should have agreed to give this loan to Mr M.
Thinking about loans 2 and 3, whilst the figures Bamboo gathered for Mr Ms income and 
expenditure were broadly unchanged its credit checks showed he was increasingly reliant on 
borrowed money. 
By the time he applied for loan 2 he owed a total credit balance of £7,609  so it was 
obvious that he had taken out further lending after having obtained loan 1 from Bamboo, 
despite what hed told Bamboo about his debt consolidation plans. Mr M first had a payment problem on loan 1 and by loan 2 Mr M was obviously struggling to 
make the loan monthly repayments. Bamboo has sent me information showing that he 
incurred late payments almost from the start of the loan  in June, July, August, September 
and October 2019. And its credit checks for loan 3 showed Mr M had used 98% of his 
available credit and his total indebtedness now stood at £8,655  clearly showing that his 
overall financial situation was steadily worsening. 
So I dont think Bamboo was fairly able to support its lending decisions when it provided 
these further loans to Mr M. 
And had it done more in-depth checks, it wouldnt have seen anything to reassure it that it 
was fair and reasonable to provide these loans to Mr M. His bank statements show that 
Mr M had extended the range of gambling sites he used and he had increased his spending 
on gambling up to around £250 in November 2019. I think this was now a significant 
proportion of his take home pay. 
And despite the fact that Mr M was using multiple other high cost lenders to provide credit 
and boost the funds in his bank account, he was still in persistent overdraft and incurring 
daily overdraft fees and his bank statements show evidence of returned payments due to 
insufficient funds. So I cant fairly say that I've seen enough to make me think that Bamboos 
loan helped Mr M to improve his financial situation. All this leads me to conclude that 
Bamboo should not have provided loans 1, 2 or 3. 
As Mr M has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on loans 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what Bamboo did wrong. So, I think Bamboo needs to put things right.
I havent seen enough to make me think that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr M some other way. So Im not proposing to award any additional redress over 
and above what I've set out below.
I appreciate the time and trouble Bamboo has taken to engage with our investigator and 
provide its detailed responses to this complaint. But for all the reasons I have explained 
above, I think it is fair and reasonable for Bamboo to take the following steps to put things 
right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr M agrees with what Ive said in my provisional decision and Bamboo has told me it has 
nothing further to add. So I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding so promptly to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed when he took out loans 1, 2 and 3. But he has had to pay interest and charges 
on loans that shouldnt have been provided to him  which isnt fair or reasonable. With 
this in mind, Bamboo should: 
 add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of being given 
loans 1, 2 and 3 (not including anything already refunded).The payments Mr M 
made should be deducted from this amount 
 
if this results in Mr M having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Bamboo should attempt to arrange 
an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr M bearing in mind the need to treat 
him positively and sympathetically in those discussions
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ms credit file regarding these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Bamboo Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman