DRN-2768587
The complaint
Mr M and Ms M complain British Gas Insurance Limited dealt poorly with a call-out under
their home emergency insurance policy and wont reimburse them for the repairs another
engineer carried out, because it says these arent covered by their policy.
What happened
Mr M and Ms M are landlords of a tenanted property and have had home emergency cover
with British Gas for many years.
Early one evening in November 2019 Mr M and Ms Ms tenants, who have a young child,
called to say theyd had an electricity outage. Ms M says this left them without heating, hot
water, lighting or cooking facilities.
When Ms M called British Gas, she says she was told an engineer would come between
6pm and 8pm. When the engineer didnt arrive, Ms M says she called British Gas a number
of times and, in the end, was told an engineer might not get to the house until well into the
night. Ms M says her tenants were cold and wanted to sleep so she instructed British Gas
not to come until the morning.
An engineer did come in the morning. But he wasnt able to fix the fault, saying someone
more experienced was needed. Ms M says he said another engineer would be there by
12:45. But when Ms M called British Gas to confirm this, she was told an engineer could
arrive at any time before 6pm. And in a later call, Ms M says she was told the appointment
had been moved to an after-hours slot.
Unhappy at the thought of her tenants having another night without electricity, that afternoon
Ms M called out a private electrician. He was fixing the fault when the second British Gas
engineer arrived (and was sent away). Ms Ms electrician said the main isolator switch had
burnt out, so he replaced it. He charged Mr M and Ms M £212.90 for the call-out and repairs.
Mr M and Ms M complained to British Gas about its service. They said they wanted £250
each in compensation for themselves and their tenants. And they asked British Gas to
reimburse them the £212.90 theyd paid the private electrician.
British Gas didnt uphold Mr M and Ms Ms complaint. It offered them and their tenants £50
each as a goodwill gesture for its delay in getting an electrician to call. But it said the work
done by the private electrician wouldnt have been covered by Mr M and Ms Ms policy. It
said their policy excluded cover for the electricity supply up to the fuse box or mains
isolation switch if fitted.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr M and Mrs M brought their complaint to us. The investigator
who looked at it didnt uphold it. He thought British Gas had gone to the property within a
reasonable timescale. And, while there were mistakes in British Gas communications with
Ms M, he thought the compensation it had offered was reasonable. And he didnt think the
work that had been carried out was covered under Mr M and Ms Ms policy.
In my provisional decision of 17 March 2021, I explained why I intended to uphold               
Mr M and Ms Ms complaint. Neither Mr M and Ms M nor British Gas has given me any 
comments on my provisional decision, which has now come to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons given in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold 
Mr M and Ms Ms complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said Id explain my reasons for upholding the complaint by 
looking separately at the complaint points Mr M and Ms M had made, as follows:
British Gas handling of Mr M and Ms Ms home emergency
British Gas has acknowledged there was a delay in getting an electrician to the property.
Ms M says the service she got wasnt fit for purpose.
Theres always going to be some distress and inconvenience to a policyholder when theres
a home emergency. On the evening of the outage, it seems Ms M made a number of calls to
British Gas and Im sure she was distressed to think that her tenants  including a small child
 didnt have any power.
It was, though, her decision (made for very understandable reasons) to stand down an
engineer when it became clear no-one would get to the house until after 10pm. And it seems
an engineer did arrive promptly the next morning. It mustve been frustrating for Ms M that
he was unable to fix the problem. But British Gas says only certain of its engineers are able
to do the work that was needed.
I can understand though that, having made yet more calls that day  and being given
different answers from British Gas about when a second engineer would call  Ms M grew
increasingly concerned and frustrated her tenants could face a second night without power.
And ultimately this led her to call out a private electrician who, it seems, came to the house
quite quickly (meaning the British Gas engineer who arrived soon afterwards was sent
away).
As Ive said, I think its reasonable to expect some distress and inconvenience when you
have a home emergency. And I wouldnt expect British Gas to give Ms M an exact
appointment time. But, especially the following day, when the first engineer hadnt been able
to help  and given Ms Ms experience of the night before  I think British Gas shouldve
done more to get an engineer to the house quickly. And, crucially, I think British Gas
shouldve done more to communicate likely timescales more clearly to Ms M. It didnt do
that, which I think added to Ms Ms distress and inconvenience.
British Gas has offered Mr M and Ms M and their tenants £50 each for their distress and
inconvenience. I agree with our investigator that, since they arent policyholders, our rules
dont allow us to award compensation to Mr M and Ms Ms tenants. But I dont think the offer
of £50 made to Mr M and Ms M reflects the distress and inconvenience Ms M had, as Ive
outlined. I think an award of £150 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances Ive described
and thats what I intend to award.
Were the repairs covered by Mr M and Ms Ms policy?As Ive mentioned, Mr M and Ms Ms engineer replaced the main isolation switch, which he
said was burnt out.
Mr M and Ms Ms policy says it covers repairs to the mains electrical system in the property
including the fuse box, light fittings, switches, sockets, isolation switches. It says it
doesnt cover the electricity supply cable up to the fuse box or mains isolation switch if
fitted.
British Gas says because the repair involved replacing the main isolator switch it wasnt
covered under the policy. Ms M says thats not her reading of the policy term. She says it
means only the cable between the meter and the isolation switch, if fitted, or the fuse box is
excluded  but the isolation switch itself is included.
I can see from claims notes British Gas has given us there was a question internally about
whether the policy exclusion covered the main isolator switch. One note refers to a
discussion with a technical help desk:
Discussed in a little more detail cover around isolation switch because I was thinking it is
covered. Essentially, if this switch is located on the circuit before the fuse box - not covered.
If it's located on the fuse box, no reason found as to why it should not be covered because
we provide cover from that point on .
Our investigator asked Ms M about the location of the isolator switch in her property. She
said on her installation, a cable goes from the meter to the fuse box and the isolator switch is
fitted between these two points.
So it seems to me, based on the internal note Ive quoted and Ms Ms description of her
installation, that British Gas doesnt intend to cover Mr M and Ms Ms isolation switch under
the terms of their policy. But, from what Ive seen so far, I dont think the policy wording, as it
applies in Mr M and Ms Ms case, is clear. I think there are two possible ways of reading it.
Either:
the electricity supply cable alone  whether it goes into the fuse box or into the mains
isolator switch (if one is fitted)  is excluded.
Or:
the electricity cable together with the fuse box or the mains isolator switch (if one has
been fitted) are all excluded.
Ms M thinks the first interpretation of the exclusion is correct. British Gas thinks the second
is correct. And I should say British Gas has recently confirmed to us that, once fitted by the
supplier, the main isolation switch does become Mr M and Ms Ms responsibility (and not, for
example, the electricity distributers or suppliers).
My current view is that the policy wording, as it applies to the facts of Mr M and Ms Ms
complaint, isnt clear. And in circumstances where the wording isnt clear, its a well-
established principle that the policy term should be interpreted in favour of the party that
didnt draft the contract. As a result, I consider it reasonable to conclude here that the
circumstances of Mr M and Ms Ms claim should be covered by the policy.
It follows from this that I think British Gas should reimburse Mr M and Ms M the costs their
private electrician invoiced them for of £212.90 (plus interest).As Ive already mentioned, neither Mr M and Ms M nor British Gas has given me any 
comments on my provisional decision. And having looked at everything again, I dont see 
any reason to change the findings I set out in it and which therefore now form part of this 
final decision.
 
Putting things right
I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr M and Ms M £150 for the distress and inconvenience its handling of their
home emergency has caused them; and
reimburse Mr M and Ms M their costs of £212.90. It should also pay them simple
interest at the rate of 8% per annum on this amount from the date they paid the
invoice to the date of payment. If British Gas Insurance Limited considers its
required to H M Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it
should tell Mr M and Ms M how much its taken off. It should also give them a tax
deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from H M 
Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr M and Ms Ms complaint and direct British Gas 
Insurance Limited to put things right as Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman