DRN-3475717
The complaint
Mr A complains to LMAX Broker Limited about charges for his overnight positions as well as 
problems updating his payment method which resulted in him having to close positions and 
incur losses.
What happened
Mr A had a trading account with LMAX. In March 2021, he tried to update an expired 
payment card that was linked to his account. As he had trouble in doing so, he asked LMAX 
for help, but it wasnt able to make the changes Mr A required  instead, errors prevented 
any changes from being made and suggested a transaction was still pending on the card. 
As he wasnt able to add his new card, Mr A says he was prevented from carrying out his 
preferred trading strategy and was unclear when the problem would be resolved. He says 
the frustration that followed led him to close his positions earlier than he intended, resulting 
in losses of over $7,000. 
Mr A complained to LMAX about whatd happened. He also raised concerns about the 
charges incurred for holding overnight positions which he felt were excessive. He said he 
was told by LMAX that depending on the direction of his trade, he would receive a credit 
rather than be charged  but this hadnt ever happened. And he highlighted that in one week 
alone hed paid around $2,100 in fees on an account worth $12,400. 
LMAX considered Mr As complaint but didnt agree itd done anything wrong. It said it wasnt 
responsible for the losses Mr A said hed incurred due the issues in updating his card details. 
It also said the swap charges had been applied in line with its charging structure. Mr A didnt 
agree and felt charges at a rate of 17% a week were too high. He also said that LMAX noting 
charges within its terms was one thing, but incurring them was another  he thought all 
clients would be shocked with how charges worked in practice. And he made reference to 
his trading strategy which involved multiple daily deposits from card, so he didnt think a 
bank transfer was a viable option for him given the delay involved. 
As Mr A remained unhappy with LMAXs answer, he asked for our help. One of our 
investigators looked into whatd happened, but he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He said, in summary:
- LMAX wasnt responsible for the card payment issues and the availability of its 
services had been explained in its terms and conditions, 
- Mr A didnt attempt other payment methods prior to closing his positions,
- and the swap fees had been applied in line with LMAXs charging terms and were 
payable due to the type and direction of position he had open.
Mr A explained that he hadnt tried other payment methods as there was a 10 day delay 
when he initially deposited money using a bank transfer  so this wasnt a feasible 
alternative. Our investigator considered that point, but found LMAX had made that money 
available to trade within a few hours, so he didnt agree there was nothing else Mr A couldve 
done. Mr A also felt LMAX, as a regulated firm, shouldnt have charged as much as it had  
he felt the way charges were worked out was unclear and that the regulator ought to 
intervene in the market. As an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint was been passed to 
me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Payment card issues
LMAXs platform allows a maximum of three payment cards to be saved for use at any time 
 it reasonably explains that this restriction is in place to help it work in line with anti-money 
laundering regulations and to reduce the risk of layering. As Mr A already had three cards 
saved  including the card he wanted to change  he needed to remove at least one card 
before being able to add another. While Mr A found this maximum of three cards 
inconvenient, I dont find this to be unfair as LMAX allowed a reasonable number of payment 
cards to be added at any one time  as well as allowing payments by alternative means, 
such as bank transfer.
It isnt in dispute that Mr A had issues updating his card details on LMAXs systems  I have 
considered the email trails which show Mr A raising the issue, LMAX trying to help and it 
acknowledging there had been a problem. But it doesnt necessarily follow that LMAX did 
something wrong and ought to compensate Mr A because of it. Instead, we must think about 
what could reasonably have happened at the time. 
Mr A points us to his trading strategy and says its important hes able to add new funds 
when he needs to. But it appears he was still able to add funds  he had two other cards 
attached to his account and LMAX tell us that neither of those had expired, so it appears he 
could have used one of them. I note Mr A withdrew his balance to one of these cards too, 
which suggests it was in use. 
Even if he couldnt have used the other two cards to add funds, he could have tried to delete 
one of those instead and replace it with his new card. I cant see he tried to do this, or that 
he asked LMAX to do it for him. Mr A could also have done a bank transfer  while this may 
not have been as instantaneous, it doesnt appear his previous experience with one took as 
long as he recalls or that it was delayed because of an error or omission on LMAXs part.
For these reasons, I dont think its fair to say LMAX caused Mr A losses by forcing him to 
close out his positions. Instead, he chose not to explore alternative ways of funding to keep 
them viable and his strategy in play. I also cannot see Mr A shared his concerns about his 
strategy or positions with LMAX, so I dont think it would be fair to say it should have done 
any more to help in the circumstances. 
As our investigator pointed out, LMAXs terms account for situations such as these  where 
technical issues occur. And I think its reliance on those terms is fair. It is unclear as to why a 
pending transaction appeared  but while this may have been due to a problem with LMAXs 
system, I dont think this changes things for Mr A given the alternatives he had available. 
I understand why Mr A feels frustrated by what happened, however, Ive not seen evidence 
that LMAX did anything wrong. Ive also not seen that Mr A took reasonable steps to fund his 
account or try replacing another card.  Because of this, it wouldnt be fair to say LMAX is 
responsible for the losses Mr A experienced when closing his positions. 
The chargesThe sort of leveraged trading Mr A was doing with LMAX attracted charges for holding 
positions open overnight and is standard practice. Despite this, what was important was for 
LMAX to be clear about the charges that applied  including how itd work them out and 
when theyd apply. From all that I have seen, LMAX did make this clear. I say this because 
when opening his account, Mr A agreed to LMAXs terms which referenced financing 
charges  these referred Mr A to both the instrument information document, where these 
would be set out as well as the trading manual, for examples of these in practice.
The instrument information document LMAX confirms was in place at the time set out that 
the finance charge for Energy CFDs as an example was calculated as Swap Point x Tick 
Value x Number of Open Contracts x Number of Days Rolled.
LMAX has provided detailed information about how Mr As swap charges were calculated. 
These show the swap points for the trade, which LMAXs platform wouldve shown prior to 
the trade being entered into, the number of days rolled over and the quantity  for the crude 
oil positions the tick value would be 0.01. I have checked LMAXs methodology and am 
satisfied that it correctly applied the formula to Mr As positions.
Whether Mr A paid or received the swap charge depended on the swap point and direction 
of a position as explained in an email hes shared with us  this said:
If you hold a short position, and swap point is positive  you will receive the financing 
charge;
If you hold a short position, and swap point is negative  you will pay the financing
A similar message in relation to Mr As currency pairs was also conveyed in the trading 
manual at 8.4:
A negative swap point if you are net long the FX pair will result in your Account being 
credited, and you will receive funding. A positive swap point charge when long will result in 
your Account being debited and you will pay funding. If your position is net short, then a 
negative swap point charge will result in your Account being debited and you will pay funding 
and a positive swap point will result in your Account being credited, and you will receive 
funding.
I appreciate Mr A doubts it was possible to receive the swap charge given he didnt, but as 
explained above, whether it was received was dependent on trading activity. Mr A hasnt 
pointed us to an example of LMAXs failure to credit him in a qualifying position. Instead it 
appears Mr As activity didnt lead to any of the circumstances where he would receive the 
charge instead of paying it. When applying the above to the short oil positions that resulted 
in the higher charges, as these had negative swap points, that meant the swap charge would 
be charged to his account for holding that position into the next day.
Most of the swap charges Mr A accrued were fairly small. The charges which were 
particularly high  prompting his complaint  attracted a swap point of around -9, or in high 
quantities of around 25 to 35 lots. When taking into account the swap points as well as the 
direction and size of the positions, these charges became higher than what Mr A 
experienced before. So though I appreciate Mr A paid some higher fees, these were in line 
with the positions hed opened rather than any mistakes being made. 
While I understand and appreciate Mr As frustration, LMAX had clearly set these out and 
from everything we can see, it applied them fairly too. There are complexities to the way 
charges work and I acknowledge Mr A may not have fully appreciated the effect theyd have, 
but that doesnt mean that LMAX has treated him unfairly  instead the charges were 
disclosed and applied correctly. Because of this, we cannot now say the charges were 
applied unfairly or were too high.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman