DRN-4206666
The complaint
Ms B and Mr V complain that Fluent Mortgages Ltd caused delays with her mortgage 
application. Ms B has dealt with the complaint throughout. She asks that Fluent refunds fees 
and pays compensation for financial loss. 
What happened
Ms B and Mr V took mortgage advice from Fluent about re-mortgaging. Ms B says the re-
mortgage took 18 weeks to complete, instead of the four to six weeks she was told to expect 
by Fluent. She says Fluent caused delays by not asking for all necessary information at the 
outset, failing to request a desktop or drive-by valuation instead of a full valuation and 
being difficult to contact. Ms B says as a result of these delays:
they missed out on lower interest rate products. 
they paid additional interest while on their previous lenders standard variable rate for two 
months. 
a direct debit payment to their previous lender was rejected, incurring a fee and adverse 
data on their credit file. 
they borrowed £2,000 more than necessary as the additional payments to their previous 
lender reduced the balance. 
Ms B asks that Fluent pays compensation for their financial loss and their lenders fee (which 
she says they werent told about), refunds its own fees, removes adverse data from their 
credit files and pays compensation for their stress, pressure and inconvenience.
Our investigator said while Ms B and Mr Vs application took longer than usual, Fluent hadnt 
caused any significant delays.
Ms B didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman re-consider the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I should explain the basis on which we award compensation. We arent regulators 
and we cant fine or punish businesses. If I think Fluent made an error, I consider what it 
should fairly do to put matters right, taking into account the effect of its error on Ms B and 
Mr V. Id consider it fair to require Fluent to pay compensation for Ms B and Mr Vs costs and 
financial losses only to the extent those costs and losses resulted from its error. 
I should also explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Fluent issued a recommendation letter on 8 November 2021. This said Ms B and Mr V 
wanted to re-mortgage to secure a new fixed interest rate. Fluent recommended a two-year 
1.14% fixed interest rate product.
Fluent sent a list of documents and information in early November 2021. It sent reminders 
and tried to contact Ms B later in November 2021 for information that hadnt been provided 
or which wasnt in a satisfactory format. Unfortunately, by the time documents were provided 
the lender had withdrawn the recommended product.
Fluent made a new recommendation at the end of November and an application was 
submitted the same day. The lender asked for better copies of some documents, as the 
copies provided didnt show the whole document (this included Ms Bs P60 and Mr Vs proof 
of address). Mr V provided his proof of address in a form satisfactory to the lender at the end 
of December 2021. By this time, the lender had rejected the application due to the time 
taken to provide the documents, and it had withdrawn the recommended product.
Fluent made a new recommendation, for a two-year 1.49% fixed interest rate product with 
the same lender, and submitted a new application. The lender asked for Mr Vs latest bank 
statements, to see his pension being paid into the account. Ms B and Mr V received a 
mortgage offer on 19 January 2022. Ms B and Mr Vs re-mortgage completed on 18 
February 2022. 
Ms B says the re-mortgage took far longer than should have been the case, and the delays 
were caused by Fluent. Ive considered the examples Ms B gives of these delays, as well as 
the overall service provided.
Not asking for necessary documents at the outset
Ms B says she told Fluent she was often away, and it should have anticipated all the 
documents needed and checked they were in an acceptable format. I dont think its fair to 
say that Fluent was responsible for delays in documents being provided. It asked for 
documents at the outset and chased Ms B when it didnt receive them. 
I dont think Fluent is responsible for delays due to Ms B providing incomplete copies of 
documents, which werent acceptable to the lender. Fluent asked Ms B for better copies and 
explained why. For instance, it received Mr Vs October bank statement on 23 November 
2021. It requested a new copy on 25 October 2021, explaining that half of the copy was cut 
off and this wouldnt be acceptable to the lender which would require the full bank statement. 
It chased Ms B several times in early December 2021 for full copies of her P60 and proof of 
address for Mr V.
Ms B says Fluent should be aware of all the documents that would be requested by a 
particular lender so it can ask for all documents at the outset. I dont think thats fair. Lenders 
are entitled to ask for further information during the application process, and often do so. It 
was reasonable for Fluent to pass on the lenders requests for further documents  if it 
hadnt, the application would have been declined. And in this case there was a change in the 
recommended lender, so even if Fluent had been able to anticipate all of the first lenders 
requirements it would have needed to ask for further documents for the second lender. Due 
to the time taken for the application to progress, the lender asked for up to date documents, 
such as Mr Vs latest bank statement. 
It was unfortunate that Ms B was away on holiday during this time, so wasnt able to provide 
documents immediately. But I cant fairly say that Fluent was responsible for any delays this 
caused. The valuation
Ms B asked for a desktop or drive by valuation. She says Fluents failure to arrange this was 
the biggest hold up with the application, as she had several holidays coinciding with the 
valuation. 
Fluent asked the lender if it would arrange a desktop or drive by valuation. It provided copies 
of emails dated 1 December 2021 with the lender which support this. I appreciate that Ms B 
feels Fluent should have pushed more for this, and she was able to arrange this when she 
contacted the lender direct. But I cant fairly say that Fluent made an error. It made the 
request to the lender, and the lender said a full valuation was needed.
Not being able to contact Fluent
While Ms B says she was unable to contact the person responsible for dealing with their 
application, she hasnt provided evidence to support this. If she was unable to reach Fluent 
that would have been frustrating. But the available evidence doesnt suggest this was the 
cause of delays. 
Time taken to complete after the mortgage offer was issued
Once a mortgage offer is issued, the work required for completion would largely be 
undertaken by the solicitors. Fluent made Ms B aware that she now needed to complete and 
return the documents to the solicitors. If there was a delay in Ms B doing this, or any delay 
by the solicitors, I dont think its fair to say Fluent was responsible for this.
Ms B and Mr Vs financial losses
While Im sorry Ms B and Mr V missed out on lower interest rate products, I dont think 
Fluent was responsible for this. The lenders withdrew the products before Ms B and Mr V 
provided the necessary documents to support their application. 
I dont think Fluent was responsible for delays with Ms B and Mr Vs re-mortgage. It follows 
that I dont think its responsible for them paying additional interest while on their previous 
lenders standard variable rate for two months. Nor do I think Fluent is responsible for a direct 
debit payment to their previous lender being rejected. Regardless of how their re-mortgage 
application was progressing, it remained Ms B and Mr Vs responsibility to ensure their 
mortgage payments were made until the re-mortgage completed. 
Ms B says their mortgage balance reduced due to additional payments made during the 
delays, meaning they borrowed more than they needed when they re-mortgaged. Fluent 
says they need to contact their lender about repaying this part of the mortgage balance, if 
thats what they want to do. I think thats a reasonable suggestion and I leave it to Ms B and 
Mr V to decide whether to do this.  
I dont think Fluent made errors or treated Mr B and Mr V unfairly. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require Fluent to pay compensation to Ms B and Mr V, or 
to refund any of its fees.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman