DRN-2931347
The complaint
Mr I complained that he was turned down for a payment holiday on his loan with Future
Finance Loan Corporation Limited. He said this was unfair, and the resulting pressure to 
make payments had a negative effect on him.
  
What happened
Mr I said he applied for a payment holiday with FFLC, but it turned him down, apparently
because by the time he asked for this holiday his loan was already in arrears. FFLC told him
it had done that because it was concerned that granting this holiday could increase Mr Is
financial difficulties. Mr I said this decision was unfair, and he felt that anyone could be
refused on this ground.
Mr I said FFLC shouldve taken account of his previous payment history, and realised that he
would repay the loan. He said hed missed six months of payments on the loan, and two
consecutive payment holidays (which were allowed under the terms of his loan) couldve
covered this period. He said hed experienced distress because of FFLCs decision. He
wanted it to amend his credit file, and he wanted it to pay him significant compensation to
make up for this.
At first FFLC said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had refused Mr Is
request because it thought that it might just increase his financial difficulties in future. When
a payment holiday ends, the payments due on the loan are larger than before, and Mr I was
already struggling to make the existing payments. So it said it had made the right decision.
And it didnt think it had then harassed him into making payments.
But when this case came to us, FFLC said it thought it couldve done more to support Mr I. It
said that it would remove any negative information from his credit file, which would include
the late payment markers which would impact on his credit history. And it would pay him
£100 in compensation.
Our investigator put this offer to Mr I, but he didnt want to accept it.
Our investigator then set out her view on this case. She didnt think this complaint should be
upheld. She said that FFLC had made what she thought was a fair offer.
Our investigator said she also had to take account of what was discussed with Mr I at the
time. He had confirmed on several occasions that he would bring his loan up to date, and
made several promises to pay to reduce arrears which werent fulfilled. Our investigator also
said Mr I didnt proactively engage with FFLC when he was offered assistance to address
the arrears. So she didnt think she could ask FFLC to do more than it had offered to do.
Mr I didnt agree. He asked if wed checked how much his payments wouldve increased
after a payment holiday, or if wed just assumed that it would mean he couldnt pay the new
amount. And he wanted to know if wed taken account of how this pressure to pay affected
him at the time.
Our investigator replied, but she didnt change her mind on FFLCs offer. She still didnt think
a payment holiday wouldve been appropriate for Mr I, but repeated that FFLC shouldve
offered Mr I more support, and should have discussed a payment plan with him.
Mr I continued to disagree. And he showed us that his credit file hadnt been updated. Our
investigator checked with FFLC, and it confirmed that the requests to update Mr Is credit file
had been made, but it said there wouldnt yet have been time for that to take effect.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I should start by saying that I dont think its clear that FFLC should just have given 
Mr I a payment holiday. Hes not automatically entitled to one under his loan, and 
FFLC does say that it wants to check that giving a payment holiday wont make 
things worse.
I think a payment holiday can sometimes make things worse, and not just in terms of
increasing future payments. It can also defer a default, which means that if a loan 
does default in future, then a negative mark will be on someones credit file for 
longer.
But, having listened to the calls Mr I had with FFLC, I dont think that FFLC ever 
properly considered Mr Is request for a payment holiday. And I dont think it did, as it 
suggested, decline the request because it was concerned that Mr I wouldnt be able 
to meet his future commitments. Rather, I think FFLC declined the payment holiday 
because it has its own internal policy (consistently referred to, across different calls 
by different agents) of declining a payment holiday whenever someone is in arrears.
I cant see anything in the terms of Mr Is loan that says a payment holiday will 
automatically be refused if someone has existing arrears. And, listening to the calls 
where this was discussed, I think that FFLC just didnt explore with Mr I the issues 
that would have allowed it to assess whether a payment holiday was appropriate for 
him or not. It didnt ask any questions about this.
It may or may not have been appropriate for FFLC to grant Mr I a payment holiday, 
but rather than just assuming it wasnt, I think it shouldve discussed this with him, to 
see. I think thats where problems started.
And I also think these problems were then compounded on later calls. Whilst I 
appreciate that Mr I made promises to pay which were not fulfilled, I think Mr I was 
given poor advice and service on these calls.
The focus of these calls was, in my view, on pressing Mr I to make a payment to 
clear his arrears. His comments about his financial difficulties dont appear to me to 
have been dealt with appropriately.
Mr I has now cleared the arrears, and I understand hes since paid off this loan.
So I do think that FFLC did something wrong. I have to assess whether what it has 
offered is enough to make up for that.I think its appropriate for FFLC to amend Mr Is credit report, in the way it has 
suggested. So I will include this in my award, although FFLC says that the relevant 
requests have already been made.
And Mr I didnt think compensation of £100 was enough. He wanted us to take into 
account how stressful it was for him to be repeatedly pressured to make a payment 
on his loan.
I have to take into account that its always going to be stressful, when someone finds 
theyre no longer able to meet their financial commitments. But, as Ive said, I dont 
think that FFLC offered Mr I the help and support I would expect, and hes told us 
about how this affected him. So I think FFLC ought to pay a little more compensation. 
I think a payment of £200 would be part of a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied. Both sides sent a substantive reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind.
Mr I sent a short reply saying that he didnt think the compensation awarded was even close 
to being enough to compensate for the considerable distress and inconvenience caused by 
FFLCs unprofessionalism in handling his payment holiday request, and its unsubstantiated 
related refusal. But he still wanted to accept the decision. He said he was doing this to speed 
up the process as nothing was likely to change any further.
Id like to reassure Mr I that I have, nevertheless, reviewed this decision in full, including 
what hes told us about the impact on him. I understand that what has happened here made 
an already difficult time worse for Mr I. But I do still think that a payment of £200 is the right 
amount for FFLC to pay, as compensation for its part in what went wrong. 
FFLC sent a lengthy response. Much of this simply restates FFLCs previous position. 
FFLC started by pointing to where Id said I thought FFLC declined Mr Is payment holiday 
because it has its own internal policy (which I noted was consistently referred to, across 
different calls by different agents) of declining a payment holiday whenever someone is in 
arrears.
FFLC said it had adhered to its terms, and to its duty as a responsible lender. It set out the 
terms that allow for payment holidays, and stressed that it wouldnt accept the request if it 
didnt think someone could meet their repayment obligations following the payment holiday. 
FFLC said that clause allows it to assess customers to ensure that a payment holiday is the 
best option for them as repayments will increase when the payment holiday ends. 
FFLC said that it had reasonably declined Mr I's request because his account was in arrears. 
FFLC said it would strongly disagree with my suggestion that it did not consider Mr Is 
payment holiday request. And it now says that Mr I simply didnt make such a request. FFLC 
said it still felt that if a payment holiday had been placed on the account, this could 
potentially put Mr I into further financial difficulty by increasing future payments that he had 
at that time.FFLC said Mr I had told it on the call from 10 April 2019 that he would clear the arrears first, 
then apply for a payment holiday. FFLC said he didnt do that. And he did not purposefully 
engage when offered assistance to address the arrears.
I note that FFLC has simply repeated its previous arguments here. These are discussed in 
my provisional decision, where I explained that I dont think that the calls Ive listened to 
support what FFLC has said. I said that whilst it can be a responsible decision to turn down a 
payment holiday on grounds of future affordability, that didnt seem to me what happened in 
this case, because Mr Is circumstances werent assessed. I was clear that it may not have 
been appropriate for Mr I to be granted a payment holiday, but I thought that FFLC shouldve 
explored his situation. I still think that.
I also explained in my provisional decision that I thought the focus of the calls FFLC made 
was on pressing Mr I to make a payment to clear his arrears. His comments about his 
financial difficulties didnt appear to me to have been dealt with appropriately.
FFLC said it thought that it couldve explained in more detail on its call with Mr I on 26 April 
2019, when he confirmed financial difficulties, that it would be concerned he would not be 
able to meet his future commitments if it gave him a payment holiday, so this could put him 
in a worse financial position. 
FFLC also said that it had accepted it could have done better in implementing forbearance 
and thats why it had offered some compensation. 
FFLC said that it had explained to Mr I during its call on 10 April 2019, that there are terms 
and conditions surrounding payment holidays, which it listed as - 
1) Repayments up to date with no arrears owing.
2) 2 weeks notice provided from next repayment due.
FFLC hasnt pointed us to any such terms in its agreement with Mr I. And it later referred to 
these conditions of a payment holiday as its policy. As such, I consider that these are 
unlikely to be terms, and are rather an internal policy that FFLC has put in place. 
FFLC ran through its understanding of what was discussed with Mr I on the calls it had with 
him, and said again that it had confirmed that it should have assisted Mr I better and a 
repayment plan should have been offered to him. 
FFLC said that its position now was that Mr I never cleared the arrears or actually applied for 
a payment holiday. It accepted it had previously told our service that Mr I applied for a 
payment holiday on 14 May 2019, but it now said that it had made a mistake about this. Hed 
actually applied for a graduate loan on that date, which was turned down.
I have heard the call recording where Mr I enquired about a payment holiday, and was very 
clearly told he couldnt have one. I dont think it fundamentally changes the outcome of this 
complaint if he didnt then continue to make a formal application for this. 
FFLC then set out for me its internal policy which it said states that payments must be up to 
date in order for a borrower to apply to be assessed for a payment holiday. I should stress 
that Im not making a decision here on the policy that FFLC has, or telling it to change that. I 
am looking at what happened to Mr I.
FFLC seems to be saying that its policy required it to tell Mr I he couldnt have a payment 
holiday. I think there are two points on this. Firstly, FFLC is in control of its own internal policies, so if I thought what happened to Mr I 
wasnt fair, then this would not change that position. 
And secondly, thats not quite what its policy says. It says that payment holidays should not 
be offered to someone in arrears. I can understand why FFLC might want to advise its staff 
not to proactively offer someone a payment holiday as a way of dealing with arrears. But 
even that internal policy, not part of the terms of this loan, doesnt appear to me to require 
FFLC to automatically refuse Mr Is request for a payment holiday because he was in 
arrears. 
I still think the appropriate step in that situation was to discuss the reason for the arrears.
FFLC said that the terms of its loan set out that payment holidays were there to assist 
someone who was in temporary financial difficulty, which has resulted, for example from 
unemployment or underemployment. But Mr I was unemployed, and had already missed two 
payments when he first asked about a payment holiday. FFLC simply didnt explore this with 
him. 
FFLC said that on the call on 10 April 2019 Mr I did not indicate any financial difficulty and 
confirmed he would clear the arrears and submit a request for a payment holiday. I can hear 
that Mr I did say he would make a payment. But he also wanted to pay with a credit card, 
wasnt able to make a payment once that was refused, and said he was out of work. And he 
was two payments in arrears.
FFLC said that it thought that in my provisional decision, I had missed the notes and 
statements from the account which were addressed in our investigators view. It said Mr I 
made no payments from February 2019 to August 2019, which would indicate he was 
already in financial difficulties by the time he enquired initially for a payment break.
Id like to reassure FFLC that had not overlooked the fact that Mr I had an extended period 
without payments. The fact that Mr I had missed a number of payments, and was 
presumably unemployed for longer than he had hoped, was one of the reasons why I 
thought it was not at all clear that FFLC shouldve given Mr I a payment holiday. But I sought 
in my review to look at what FFLC knew at the time when it first spoke to Mr I about a 
payment holiday, rather than with the benefit of hindsight. And I dont think that FFLC knew 
that Mr Is unemployment was going to be longer. If FFLC had explored Mr Is position with 
him, it may have been able to provide appropriate support.
FFLC said that its policy on payment holidays was in line with FCA guidelines, including the 
recent update taking account of the pandemic. I dont think those changes are relevant to 
what happened here, before the pandemic. And I havent been able to find FCA guidance 
which suggests that individuals must be turned down for a payment holiday if they have any 
arrears.
FFLC said that Id commented that the focus of later calls was, in my view, on pressing Mr I 
to make a payment to clear his arrears, and that comments about his financial difficulties 
didnt appear to me to have been dealt with appropriately.
FFLC said there was no evidence that it had pressured Mr I into making a payment. I do 
accept that Mr I didnt in fact make payments. 
FFLC said when Mr Is account was in arrears, it was within its rights to contact Mr I and 
discuss a plan to bring his account back up to date. But FFLC didnt discuss a plan, or 
respond at all to Mr Is comments about his financial difficulties. Instead, it simply asked Mr I 
to make a payment. FFLC has accepted it made a mistake here.FFLC then said that it thought my final findings were less around the facts, which it had not 
disputed in its summary surrounding forbearance, advising it should have supported Mr I 
more in relation to providing forbearance, but more in line with the compensatory figure that 
has been offered to Mr I. It said that it had already rectified Mr Is credit file, and offered what 
it believed to be fair and reasonable compensation. FFLC said that compensation is a 
subjective issue as to what is deemed fair and reasonable and is not specified within the 
regulations or by our service. 
FFLC said it believed its previous offer of £100 to be fair and reasonable. But it said that in 
order to draw the complaint to a close it was willing to increase this offer to £200. However, it 
wanted the categorization in relation to the payment holiday to be withdrawn by our service 
as it said this was in contradiction with the FCA guidance surrounding payment holidays and 
the duties and regulatory obligations FFLC are required to adhere to.
Im not quite clear on what FFLC is suggesting here, or indeed on what it is requesting from 
our service. I have set out my view on what went wrong in this case. And, most importantly, I 
have explained why I dont think that what happened in this case was an appropriate 
response to Mr Is situation.
Any decision about compensation will always come down to the individual circumstances of 
a complaint. So in making that decision, I consider all the facts of the case and assess what 
the impact of any mistakes have been on the complainant. Then Ill suggest an award thats 
fair and reasonable for that  while also making sure any amount is consistent with what the 
amounts this service awards more widely. And, based on that, its my view that £100 was not 
a fair and reasonable amount of compensation in this case. Thats why I suggested £200. 
And thats what Ill now award. 
    
My final decision
My final decision is that Future Finance Loan Corporation Limited must remove the negative 
payment markers on Mr Is credit file for this loan. And it must pay Mr I £200 in 
compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman