DRN-4109971
The complaint
In summary, Mr E complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) delayed a 
payment he tried to make ahead of a property purchase. He says this caused him a financial 
loss and distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
In summary:
In June 2022 Mr E tried to transfer funds from his current account with NatWest. After a 
payment was made using Mr Es debit card, a fraud block was placed on the account by 
NatWest. 
Mr E complained to NatWest about the restriction placed on his account. In its response to 
his concerns, NatWest explained that it agreed Mr E was incorrectly told it had been the 
merchant declining the payment. It confirmed a restriction was placed on his debit card as a 
fraud prevention measure. For security reasons it couldnt explain what fraud parameters 
triggered the alert. After Mr E contacted NatWest, the block was removed from his account. 
It credited his account as reimbursement for the premium service fee of £83.88 that he had 
paid, and £100 for being given incorrect information. 
Mr E made further submissions to NatWest. It paid him another £100 compensation in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience he had been caused. Mr E didnt agree with 
NatWests offer, and his concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. They 
explained why they werent upholding Mr Es complaint about the payment being blocked, 
and they said the compensation NatWest had offered in respect of the incorrect information 
he had been given, was in line with our guidelines.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators view and said his concerns were that if he had been 
told the account was being blocked due to fraud, he would have contacted the fraud team. 
The investigator explained that they had listened to the calls, and agreed it wasnt clear 
enough that the block had been put in place by NatWest, as opposed to the merchant he 
was trying to make the payment to. The compensation offered was appropriate in relation to 
the inconvenience he had been caused by this mistake. 
Mr E asked for his case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. The investigator asked him what 
part of the view he was unhappy with. In response, Mr E explained in summary, that he had 
no further information to submit. But he wasnt happy with the assessment of the impact 
resulting from wrong information being given to him on multiple occasions by NatWest.
In response the investigator sympathised with the issues Mr E had experienced. But they 
didnt think further compensation was warranted. As no agreement could be reached, the 
case was passed to me to review. I asked the investigator to ask Mr E to if he had any 
evidence about any losses he might have incurred as a result of the block placed on his 
account and him being provided with incorrect information.
In response Mr E explained in summary, that if he had been given correct information, he 
would have contacted NatWests fraud team the same day.  He would have continued to 
speak to the fraud team until his money had been released. 
The investigator went back to Mr E and asked him to explain any direct losses he had 
incurred and any evidence he had in support of those. In response Mr E explained that it had 
been very stressful in having to deal with this issue whilst he was in another country. And he 
explained the difficulties of potential options open to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand and empathise that Mr E has been inconvenienced by his debit card 
payment being blocked, and by the subsequent misinformation that was given to him by 
NatWest. It was clearly, from what hes described, a difficult and frustrating experience for 
him. 
Mr E appears to accept that restrictions can be placed on an account due to fraud concerns. 
And I understand his frustrations that he was provided with incorrect information when he 
first contacted NatWest to find out why the transaction had been blocked. And its 
disappointing that NatWest didnt explain the correct reason why the transaction had been 
blocked when Mr E spoke to it. 
I have to consider the impact of all of this on Mr E. I understand from what he has told us, 
that the misinformation provided by NatWest nearly caused him to lose out on a property 
purchase. But he was able to borrow money for the deposit. 
I accept that the incorrect information provided by NatWest caused Mr E to focus his efforts 
on the merchant. But I cant see that it caused Mr E any direct financial losses. Weve asked 
Mr E for evidence of any losses or consequential costs caused by the misinformation 
provided to him. Mr E has explained what costs he could have incurred, but he hasnt 
provided any evidence of additional costs or lending he had to take out, that directly resulted 
from the misinformation provided to him by NatWest. So, I dont have any evidence which 
shows he lost out financially.
I accept that Mr E was inconvenienced by the transaction being blocked. But as this was for 
fraud prevention purposes, it wasnt necessarily wrong of NatWest to have done that. And it 
seems to me that some of Mr Es inconvenience was as a result of the payment being 
blocked. 
But I accept that NatWest did cause Mr E additional inconvenience as a direct result of the 
misinformation it gave him. In considering any award for distress and inconvenience that I 
am allowed to make, I need to consider the impact on Mr E of NatWests mistakes. And I 
need to make it clear that I dont have the power to make any punitive monetary award 
against NatWest. It appears that the restrictions on Mr Es account were lifted very shortly 
after they had been applied. So, the impact on Mr E of NatWests mistake was for a short 
period of time. 
Awards for distress and inconvenience arent an exact science. NatWest has paid Mr E a 
total of £200 for the inconvenience he was caused. And its also paid him the cost of the 
transaction fee of £83.88 that he paid to make the payment. Taking into account what Ive 
said above, I think the compensation payments NatWest has made, are an appropriate sum 
to compensate Mr E for the inconvenience caused by the incorrect information it gave him.My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already paid Mr E £283.88 to settle the complaint, and I 
think this payment is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc doesnt need to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman