DRN-1745394
 
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy as her insurers Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) refused her claim, on her 
household contents insurance for damage to her sofa.  
 
What happened
 
Mrs S made a claim for accidental damage for her sofa. She stated that she removed the 
covers on the sofa and noticed damage to the back of it. She registered a claim for the 
damage with Ageas, providing photographic evidence of the damage and a cost for the 
replacement covers.  
 
Ageas appointed its supplier to inspect the damage and assess the case. They concluded 
that the damage was caused by the sofa being positioned in front of a radiator and that the 
damage had been gradual, which would have worsened overtime. Due to this, Ageas 
declined the claim on the basis that this was not covered by the policy as it was gradual 
wear and tear. Ageas also raised the issue of the 60 day continuous occupancy clause as 
Mrs S stated that she had not occupied the premises continually, due to ill health among her 
close family members.  Mrs S also admitted that she had made a claim previously for 
damage to her sofa covers in 2014, for which her claim was successful.  
 
Mrs S was upset by the decision and brought the complaint to this service. 
 
Our investigator looked into it. She found that Ageas acted unfairly as she thought the event 
was a one off incident and that any damage following that had gradually got worse overtime. 
She upheld her claim.  
 
Ageas disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyI considered the complaint and I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision which said
 
 
The photographs sent to Ageas from Mrs S shows holes which are on the back of the sofa 
covers. Mrs S only noticed the damage when she removed the covers for professional 
cleaning. Mrs S can not say when the damage actually occurred as the covers had been in 
place on the sofa for up to 2 years. Ageas sent their assessor to inspect the damage and 
report how it had occurred. On inspection, they found that the damage formed the outline of 
the radiator, as the sofa had been placed in front of a radiator. They concluded that the holes 
and fraying showed that the damage had occurred over a period of time and was not a one 
off incident. I have also seen photographs of the damage and they clearly show holes and 
fraying. This according to the report shows deterioration, which lead the assessor to 
conclude that the damage had been gradual. I have had sight of an email from Mrs S to our 
investigator, in which she admits that the damage had been caused over a period of time:  
 
First of all I reported the damage immediately it came visible to me although the damage 
had occurred over a period of time
 
She qualifies this by giving a time frame of when she believed that the damage had 
happened:
 
Assuming damage was done in the period October 2017 to April 2018
 
One of the exclusions of the policy is as follows:
 
We wont pay out for claims that are as a result of wear and tear or anything else that 
happens gradually 
 
Mrs S was aware of her policy exclusion as she confirmed this in the email to our 
investigator. She also admitted that the damage to the sofa covers had occurred over a 
period of time and put forward a time frame of 6 months. Mrs S policy only covers one off 
accidental damage to an item.  Due to these admissions and the policy, I think this clearly 
shows that Ageas could reasonably decline this claim.  I cant rule that Ageas treated Mrs S 
unfairly or unreasonably in declining her claim. 
 
Mention was made of a 60 day continuous occupancy clause. In that cover will be excluded 
if there wasnt continuous occupancy of the address. Although it was mentioned in the 
papers, I cant see any evidence of Ageas relying on this clause as a reason to decline Mrs S claim.  In any event, Mrs S stated that at no time was her home unoccupied for a period of 
60 days consecutively.  
 
I asked both Mrs S and Ageas to respond with any further evidence that they would a like 
me consider.  
 
Ageas didnt respond Mrs S responded that the damage on her sofa was caused as a result 
of an accident and not wear and tear.
 
Responses to my provisional decision
 
I have received no response from Ageas, but Mrs S main responses were:
 
1. She verified where the position of the sofa was in the room. 
2. Relied upon a dictionary definition of accident. 
3. Confirmed that there was a six month period when the damage could have occurred.  
 
My findings
 
I have reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think that Ageas acted 
reasonably and fairly when it declined the claim. My reasons for this will be explained below:
                                                                              
I have received additional testimony from Mrs S in which she confirms the position of the 
sofa and room configuration meant that the sofa could only be placed in front of the radiator, 
which caused damage.   Unfortunately, Mrs H hasnt provided me with independent expert 
evidence to counter what the Ageas loss adjuster said. On the basis of his report and the 
photos, I think that the claim has been dealt with fairly.  
 
Mrs S has provided me with a dictionary definition of accidental, to support her claim.  But 
this varies slightly to the definition from the policy which states that:
Accidental damage cover - this covers unintentional one off incidents which damages your 
property         
If the policy didnt define what accidental damage was, then we may apply the dictionary 
definition.  But in this case, Ageas has set out what it means by accidental damage and I 
think it is entitled to rely upon that when assessing a claim.  So, if the damage wasnt a one 
off event and happened over time, then it wouldnt be covered. Mrs S in her reply accepts that the damage occurred over time: 
I also explained that the period in question (for the damage to have occurred) was approx. 6 
months during which time the heating/radiator would not have been on all day and everyday 
but as required when we were in the room.
 
I understand from this that Mrs S has accepted that there was a six month period in which 
the damage occurred.  I accept that Mrs S may not have put on her heating everyday over 
that period, but as she accepts that it was put on, then it is reasonable to conclude that the 
damage was gradual and not a one off event. On balance, whilst I have every sympathy for 
Mrs S position, I am not satisfied that Ageas unfairly or unreasonably declined the claim and 
as such I cant ask them to do anymore.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman