DRN-3324336
The complaint
Mr M complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In March 2017, Mr M acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from Blue 
Motor Finance. Mr M made an initial payment of £500 and was required to make 60 monthly 
repayments of £542 followed by a final monthly payment of £692. The total repayable under 
the agreement was £33,701.
Mr M says that Blue Motor Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if 
it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Blue Motor Finance didnt agree. 
It said that Mr M provided it with his employment and income details and a validation call 
took place. It said Mr M was given the pre-contract information which he signed saying he 
could afford the payments. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Blue Motor Finance 
ought to have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr M.
Blue Motor Finance didnt agree and said the bank statements showed Mr M was in credit 
before his salary was paid and that he was making discretionary spending. It didnt accept 
that the bank statements showed the agreement to not be affordable. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Blue Motor Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Blue Motor Finance has said it asked Mr M about this employment and income and said a 
validation call took place. I havent further details or evidence that Blue Motor Finance 
verified Mr Ms income before approving the finance. Given the overall size of the borrowing, 
the monthly repayments and the term of the agreement, I think it would have been 
proportionate for it to have done so.
I note a call took place in March 2017, but I havent received a recording of this and I have 
nothing to show that Mr M was asked about his regular expenditure during the application. 
Without verifying Mr Ms income and knowing what his regular committed expenditure was 
Blue Motor Finance wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the 
agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
I think it would have been proportionate for Blue Motor Finance to have verified Mr Ms 
income in some way and to have found out more about Mr Ms committed expenditure, such 
as his living costs. I cant be sure exactly what Blue Motor Finance would have found out if it 
had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant 
weight on the information contained in Mr Ms bank statements as to what would most likely 
have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ms bank statements for the months leading up to the lending decision. 
These show that Mr M was earning a monthly income of around £2,700. He was paying a 
total of around £2,200 towards his committed living expenditure including rent, bills and food. 
I note the comments Blue Motor Finance has made about Mr M making discretionary 
spending choices and I can see these on the bank statements. However, the statements 
also show that deducting his committed expenses from his monthly income would leave 
disposable income of around £500. While this may have been used for discretionary 
spending, this still wasnt enough to cover the monthly repayments under the agreement. I 
also note that some of the payments were to debt management companies which could 
suggest further issues regarding Mr Ms ability to manage his money. I think this 
demonstrates that Mr M didnt have enough disposable income to afford the additional 
borrowing. Blue Motor Finance therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think Blue Motor Finance ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair 
for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr M should 
therefore only have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £20,500 (of which he paid 
a £500 deposit). Anything Mr M has paid in excess of that amount should be refunded as an 
overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ms complaint Blue Motor Finance should do the following:
Refund any payments Mr M has made in excess of £20,500, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Blue Motor Finance to take off tax from this interest. Blue 
Motor Finance must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr M asks 
for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman