DRN-3534602
The complaint
Miss M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved her credit
card and later increased the credit limit.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In August 2016 Miss M submitted a credit card application to Vanquis online. The 
application was later reviewed between Miss M and Vanquis over the phone. In the 
application, Miss M said she was employed part time with an income of £580 a month. Miss 
M also confirmed she received child maintenance and benefits payments of around £250 a 
month. Vanquis said Miss Ms income was £9,888 a year and she said there was a total 
household income of around £28,000. Miss M confirmed she has three dependents. 
Vanquis approved the application and a £500 credit limit.
In January 2017 Vanquis increased the credit limit to £1,000 and in December 2017 it 
went up to £1,750.
Miss M fell behind with her payments and the credit card was closed by Vanquis in May 
2018 and a default was recorded on her credit file. Vanquis later amended the default date 
to August 2018.
Miss M went on to complain that Vanquis had lent irresponsibly. Vanquis issued a final 
response but didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. An investigator at this service looked at 
Miss Ms complaint but thought Vanquis had dealt with it fairly. Miss M asked to appeal, so 
her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Vanquis had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Miss M could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable 
way. These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. 
The nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on 
various factors like:
-The amount of credit;
-The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
-The duration of the agreement;
-The costs of the credit; and
-The consumers individual circumstances.
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Ive reached a different view to the investigator concerning whether Vanquis carried out 
proportionate checks. Having looked at Miss Ms original application and listened to the call I 
think there were clear signs Miss M would struggle to maintain further credit that Vanquis 
shouldve picked up on. In my view, that led Vanquis to lend irresponsibly. Ill explain why.
Listening to Miss Ms application, she confirmed her part time income was around £500 a 
month. Miss M said she also received child maintenance of around £250 which was 
included in her income figure. In addition, Miss M said there was a total household income 
of around £28,000 (including hers) but Vanquis didnt ask any questions about her partners 
employment or income. Im not persuaded Vanquis decision to use an income figure of 
£28,000 was reasonable when assessing Miss Ms application. At least £250 a month was 
meant for child maintenance. Vanquis didnt ask Miss M about the ages of her children or 
how long she would receive this income. In addition, the overwhelming majority of the 
income figure Vanquis used came from someone else. If Vanquis wanted to use someone 
elses income to base its lending decision, I think it shouldve found out more about their 
circumstances.
I also think its reasonable to note that Miss M told Vanquis she has three dependents. 
Although Vanquis asked Miss M to confirm her monthly rent figure, it didnt ask about other 
regular expenses. As Vanquis was aware Miss M had a reasonably modest income and 
three dependents, I think it shouldve caused it to carry out more comprehensive checks 
before deciding whether to proceed.
There were a range of items Vanquis couldve asked for. As Ive noted above, theres no 
set approach when considering an application. Vanquis couldve asked for bank 
statements or evidence of Miss Ms income for instance. Miss M has forwarded her bank 
statements covering the period before her application was completed. Ive looked at them 
and whilst they show Miss Ms income was broadly in line with what she told Vanquis, they 
also show outgoings that meant it was unlikely she would be able to support further 
borrowing. In my view, Vanquis lent irresponsibly when it approved Miss Ms credit card.
It follows that if I think the card was irresponsibly approved, I think the following credit limits 
were also irresponsibly approved. I note that prior to each credit increase, Miss Ms 
unsecured credit had also grown. By the time Vanquis increased the credit limit to £1,750 in 
December 2017 Miss Ms outstanding unsecured credit figure had increased from around 
£3,000 from when she first applied to around £7,000. An increase of around £4,000 in a 
period of 15 months. In addition to the above, I think the increase in unsecured lending 
shouldve caused Vanquis to carry out better checks.
Im provisionally upholding Miss Ms complaint as I think Vanquis lent irresponsibly when it 
approved her credit card and later increased the credit limit. As a result, I intend to direct 
Vanquis to refund all interest, fees s credit card from inception to the date of settlement.
It wouldnt be fair to Vanquis to report adverse information on Miss Ms credit about a debt 
that was lent irresponsibly. So I also intend all adverse information, including arrears, from 
Miss Ms credit file.
I asked both parties to respond with any further comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before making my final decision. Miss M responded and confirmed she had no 
further points to add. Vanquis confirmed it was willing to accept the provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Miss Ms complaint should 
be upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Vanquis Bank Limited to settle as 
follows: 
- Refund all interest, fees and charges applied to Miss Ms credit card from inception to 
the date of settlement
- Any remaining balance should not be subject to further interest. If it hasnt done so 
already, Vanquis should take steps to ensure an affordable repayment plan is 
discussed with Miss M. If the debt has been sold to a third party, Vanquis should 
take steps to either recover the account or work with the third party to put the 
settlement in place. Vanquis may need to consider purchasing the debt back
- If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement
- Vanquis should amend Miss Ms credit file to ensure no adverse information about 
its credit card is recorded
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman