DRN-3687633
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) has refused to 
refund payments from her credit card account that she did not authorise.
What happened
Mrs H let her grandson use her phone to make some purchases on Google Play using her 
credit card details. On 3 October 2021 Tesco contacted Mrs H as it had seen a large number 
of transactions to Google Play and these payments were out of character for Mrs Hs 
account. Mrs H confirmed that those transactions were genuine.
Over the next month or so nearly 150 further payments were made to Google Play, totalling 
over £3000. When Mrs H realised what had happened, she contacted Tesco and explained 
that her grandson had made these payments without her permission. 
Tesco declined to refund the payments that Mrs H was disputing, it said she had given her 
grandson permission to use her phone to make these kinds of payments, and so had 
authorised the payments. It said that it would not class this as fraud unless Mrs H reported 
her grandson to the police. Tesco also said that as Mrs H had already told it that previous 
payments to Google Play were legitimate, it had not flagged that these later payments were 
unusual or out of character.
Mrs H was unhappy with Tescos response and so referred her concerns to us. One of our 
investigators looked at what had happened and felt that Tesco should have noticed unusual 
activity on the account by 17 October, so she said that Tesco should rework Mrs Hs account 
to reflect what would have happened if payments to Google Play from 17 October onwards 
had been stopped. Tesco didnt agree, and so this complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
I acknowledge that Mrs H willingly gave her grandson access to her card details on her 
phone so that he could make payments via Google Play, and I agree that this means she 
essentially gave him authority to make the payments in dispute here. 
Under the Payment Services Regulations, we consider the issue of the relationship between 
the account-holder, Mrs H, and the person making the transactions. In this case thats her 
grandson. I think, taking into account all the circumstances of this case, Mrs H authorised 
her grandson to act as her agent: to make transactions on his behalf. She may not have 
thought about it in this way of course. She wouldnt necessarily have considered that by 
giving her grandson permission to use her card details via Google Play on previous 
occasions, he could therefore go on to use the card details again for payments Mrs H hadnt 
specifically told him he could make. So I dont doubt there were individual transactions which 
Mrs H didnt authorise. But because of the nature of their relationship, she was giving her 
grandson apparent authority to carry out those transactions she subsequently disputed. In 
order to remove her apparent authority after giving her grandson her phone with the card 
details Mrs H would have needed to do something to ensure he couldnt use them again 
after the payments she had agreed to. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mrs H did 
that. 
But even with this in mind, Tesco still had a responsibility to flag any unusual or out of 
character payments that could be an indication of potential fraud or another issue with the 
account. And while I appreciate that Tesco has said Mrs H confirmed on 3 October that the 
payments made so far to Google Play were genuine, I dont think this means Tesco can then 
go on to say that it was reasonable to presume all payments to Google Play after that date 
must also have been genuine, regardless of how out of character for the account they may 
have been. 
The first batch of payments, which initially raised concerns with Tesco, was nine payments 
over two days, totalling around £75. These are the payments that Mrs H confirmed were 
genuine. By 10 October this had escalated to 34 payments in one day, some of which were 
declined by Tesco, totalling around £200, and by 17 October almost £500 of payments went 
to Google Play in one day. I think by this stage the pattern of spending, which was a 
significant change to the initial spend with Google Play  and was out of character given the 
usual operation and level of spending on the account  should have indicated to Tesco that 
something might have gone wrong. And if Tesco had stepped in at this point and asked for 
confirmation that the transactions were still genuine, then its likely that any further spending 
could have been prevented.
So with this in mind, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Tesco to refund to Mrs H the 
payments made from 17 October 2021 onwards as I think this is the point where the account 
usage was unusual enough to have flagged to Tesco that it needed to do more to ensure the 
transactions were genuine.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Hs complaint for Tesco to put things right by:
- Refunding the transactions made to Google Play from 17 October 2021 onwards
- Reworking the interest applied to Mrs Hs account to reflect what she would have 
paid if the above transactions had not been made
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint, Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) should 
put things right in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman