DRN-1810950
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited avoided (treated it as if it 
never existed) his motor insurance policy and refused to pay his claim following the theft of 
his car.
What happened
Mr R took out a policy with Advantage through an online price comparison site. When his car 
was stolen, he tried to claim on his policy. 
Advantage declined his claim, avoided his policy and refunded the premiums hed already 
paid. When Mr R complained, it said hed answered the question hed been asked about 
previous motoring convictions incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a careless 
qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and refuse his claim. Mr R 
said hed forgotten about the fines and he said other insurers would have charged an 
increased premium but still provided cover. 
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld. She agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. And she believed it was 
careless. Advantage showed that it wouldnt have provided cover if the question had been 
answered correctly. And so she thought it was entitled to avoid the policy and decline the 
claim. 
Mr R doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr R feels frustrated and disappointed with Advantages decision. I 
can see that this has had a financial impact for him. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Advantage thinks Mr R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he stated in his application via a comparison site that he didnt have any previous motoring 
convictions within the past five years. And Ive looked at the question he was asked when he 
completed the application and agree he failed to take reasonable care. This is because he 
was asked:
ln the last five years have you received any motoring convictions, driving licence 
endorsements or fixed penalties, and/or have you been disqualified from driving (including 
any pending prosecutions)?
A pop-up box provides more information to help consumers answer this question correctly. 
And I think this was a clear question asked by Advantage through the comparison site Mr R 
used. Mr R said none and this was stated on his statement of insurance that was sent to 
him in his Welcome Pack to check for accuracy. But I cant see that Mr R told Advantage 
that there were any inaccuracies.
Mr R said that the policy says that Advantage would check his information was accurate. He 
thought that if it had carried out its check earlier, then the avoidance wouldnt have 
happened. But I think its for Mr R to provide accurate information. I think the insurer can 
check for accuracy at any time during the policy. I wouldnt expect an insurer to check 
everything hed told it at the outset, but I think its reasonable for it to do so in the case of a 
claim. 
Ive seen that Mr R had two motoring convictions for speeding within the five years before he 
took out this policy. And I think Mr R should reasonably have declared them in response to 
Advantages question. And I think this means Mr R failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when he said he didnt have any previous motoring convictions. 
Advantage has provided evidence from its underwriting guide which shows that if Mr R had 
not made this misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered him cover. This means I am 
satisfied Mr Rs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Mr R explained that hed forgotten about the speeding fines. And Advantage accepted that 
this was an honest mistake and that his misrepresentation was careless. I think thats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
As Ive stated above, because Advantage wouldnt have offered cover at all if there hadnt 
been a misrepresentation, then its entitled to avoid Mr Rs policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Advantage doesnt have to 
deal with his claim following the theft of his car. But it must return Mr Rs premiums, as I can 
see it has done. 
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Advantage to rely on it to avoid Mr Rs policy produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman