DRN-2426988
The complaint
Miss M says a loan she had approved by AvantCredit of UK,LLC was unaffordable, and they 
shouldnt have lent to her.
What happened
In April 2016, Miss M took out a loan with AvantCredit for £1,500 over a period of 60 months, 
with a monthly repayment of £56.15. The annual percentage rate for the loan was 45.3%.
Miss M said AvantCredit shouldnt have given her the loan as she couldnt afford to repay it. 
She said theyd based their calculations on inaccurate information. And hadnt taken into 
account she was already in a debt management plan, had lost her job and was having to pay 
£200 per month in travel costs. She complained to AvantCredit.
They said on applying for the loan Miss M had indicated her monthly income was around 
£1200 with outgoings of £600, leaving enough disposable income to repay the loan 
commitment. They said theyd checked her income and pre-existing debts and nothing was 
evident that led them to believe the loan was unaffordable.
Miss M wasnt happy with their response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that as the loan was over 60 months AvantCredit should have checked 
further into Miss Ms income and expenditure. But after reviewing Miss Ms bank statements 
she didnt think AvantCredit had lent irresponsibly.
Miss M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I can understand Miss M will be 
disappointed with my final decision, so Ill explain why.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them 
the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable and 
proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was fair. 
And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the loan 
would have been approved if the checks had taken place. In reaching my decision 
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice to determine.
CONC 5.2.4G(2) says: 
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. 
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
This means AvantCredit in lending to Miss M are required to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether she could afford to repay her loan in a sustainable manner. This is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. 
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit needed to think 
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Miss M. This means it wasnt enough for them to only think about the 
likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of repayment 
on Miss M herself. 
Checks must also be proportionate considering the specific circumstances of the loan 
application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check will generally depend on  
several factors such as the circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current 
situation and whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. 
Consideration should also be given to the amount, type and cost of credit theyre applying 
for. This could mean a proportionate check could differ for the same borrower for different 
loan applications. So, Ive considered whether AvantCredit in lending to Miss M had been 
thorough in the checks they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account 
in deciding to lend to her.
I can see AvantCredit based their decision to lend on the monthly income indicated by Miss 
M on her application being consistent with known data. And Miss Ms credit file didnt raise 
any undue concerns to them. AvantCredit based Miss Ms ability to repay her loan on a 
monthly income of £1200 with outgoings totalling £600, made up of £400 for rent and £200 
for other commitments. This would have left Miss M with disposable income of £600 per 
month. As the repayment of the new loan was £56.15 AvantCredit considered the loan was 
easily affordable. But I think, the amount of disposable income available should have raised 
a question as to why Miss M needed to borrow £1500 that attracted such a high rate of 
interest, with this amount of disposable income available to her. And given Miss Ms 
indebtedness to AvantCredit was over a long period of time  60 months, I think they should 
have done more to determine Miss Ms financial situation.
Ive looked at Miss Ms bank statements from three months prior to the loan being approved. 
While I can see her average income was less than the £1200 used by AvantCredit. I 
calculated her average income to be around £992. I havent seen any evidence that Miss M 
was paying £200 in travel costs per month on top of her other commitments. And I havent 
seen anything that implied that Miss M would have struggled to meet her repayment 
commitment of £56.15.I think this is supported by Miss M maintaining her monthly 
commitments for around three years.
So, Im satisfied AvanrtCredit acted responsibly in agreeing to lend to Miss M. But its clear 
Miss M is now experiencing financial difficulty, I can see that AvantCredit and Miss M have 
agreed a payment plan to help her repay the remaining balance. And I expect AvantCredit to 
treat Miss M sensitively and positively while she is experiencing financial difficulty.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman