DRN-3245410
The complaint
Mr C is a sole trader. He complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) treated him 
unfairly by closing his accounts and defaulting his Bounce Back Loan (BBL). 
What happened
Mr C told us:
He received the BBL funds into his business account and transferred them to his 
savings account
RBS told him it was closing his account and defaulting his BBL. The bank then 
debited the balance of both his personal and savings accounts to reduce the 
outstanding balance on the BBL.  
He has been caused financial difficulty by the banks decision to use his savings 
balance to offset against the outstanding BBL balance. 
The bank didnt tell him why it had made the decision to close his accounts and 
withdraw the BBL.
RBS told us:
It had made a commercial decision in line with its terms and conditions to terminate 
its relationship with Mr C, which included withdrawal of his BBL.
A notice regarding the account termination was issued before the account was 
passed to the banks recovery department.
Our investigator said she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld because:
RBS was able to undertake checks that borrowers met the BBL eligibility criteria at 
any point throughout the term of the loan. 
The BBL agreement terms allow RBS to default the loan with immediate effect and 
demand immediate repayment in certain circumstances. One of those circumstances 
is if the bank identified that Mr C wasnt eligible for loan, and based on what shed 
seen, she was satisfied with RBSs decision.
RBSs account terms and conditions allowed the bank to close an account with 
immediate effect. RBS had given Mr C notice that it wanted to end its banking 
relationship with him and gave him seven days notice for him to arrange banking 
elsewhere. She thought RBS had acted in line with these terms and that its decision 
was reasonable. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Under the rules of the BBL Scheme, applications were subject to certain checks including 
customer fraud, Anti-Money Laundering and Know Your Customer checks. However, under 
the scheme rules, the applications are self-declared by the potential borrower, so the lender, 
is able to rely on the information declared on the within the application to allow them to 
provide the loan.
The bank is allowed to carry out checks at any point once the loan has been provided to 
satisfy themselves a borrower still meets the scheme rules. In this case, after Mr C had 
already received the BBL, RBS carried out review checks on his application to verify the 
information Mr C had provided to show he was eligible for the BBL. The bank decided that it 
wasnt satisfied that Mr C had met the Scheme terms and withdrew the facility with 
immediate effect. RBS has provided us with the information on which its decision was based, 
and our investigator has explained this in more detail in her opinion, that the bank didnt think 
Mr C was trading on or before 1 March 2020  and Mr C hasnt disputed this. Therefore 
having reviewed the evidence available, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the bank to 
withdraw the BBL funds in line with the Scheme rules. 
Mr C has also told us that hes unhappy that RBS used the balance in his savings account to 
reduce the outstanding balance on the BBL. But the terms of the agreement under the 
Payments and set-off section say that the bank can take any available credit funds from a 
customers account as payment towards the outstanding BBL debt. And that it can do so 
without prior notice, either before or after a formal demand has been issued on the BBL. The 
key point here is that although the BBL was for Mr Cs business, he is still liable for this as 
the person who has used the BBL funds. So I dont think RBS has done anything wrong by 
using the funds in Mr Cs personal account towards the outstanding BBL balance.
   
Mr C is also unhappy that his accounts were closed as he says the bank hasnt told him the 
reason for this. RBS has told us Mr Cs accounts were also closed as it had undertaken a 
review and hed had failed the banks checks. In certain circumstances, the bank is able to 
immediately close an account without giving the minimum 60 days notice. RBS has provided 
us with the information on which its decision was based. And having reviewed this, Im 
satisfied that it was reasonable for the bank to take this action. I am sorry that Im unable to 
share more information with Mr C, and I appreciate this leaves him in a difficult position. 
However, RBS isnt obligated to share more information than it already has, so Im unable to 
ask it to do so.
I recognise that Mr C feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I think RBS acted reasonably in closing his accounts and 
withdrawing his BBL facility, so, I wont be asking it to do anything more. Mr C has told us 
that hes in financial difficulty and I would encourage him to contact RBS about this if hes 
unable to make the repayment on his BBL as required by the bank.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman