DRN-3052624
The complaint
Mr S complains about the difficulties he experienced using the online services provided by 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL). Hes unhappy the disruption 
allowed him to place duplicate sales and caused his account to go into negative balance. 
What happened
Mr S placed sales through HLs online service to sell shares in his stocks and shares 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) and Lifetime Individual Savings Account (LISA) on the 
afternoon of 9 November 2020. He placed the sales but his account didnt update 
straightaway, so he thought they hadnt gone through. He tried to place the sales again. 
However, the initial sales had gone through correctly which meant more were processed 
than intended. The proceeds from the sales were added to Mr Ss balance and on the same 
day Mr S used some of the funds to purchase shares in a separate company. 
Mr S contacted HL about the sales and the information his account was showing. HL 
responded and confirmed they had reversed the sales which hadnt been intended. They 
wrote to Mr S on 16 November 2020 because his LISA had a negative balance and they set 
out the options available to him. 
 
Mr S was unhappy about the duplicated sales and the negative balance. Also, the time he 
had spent on the matter. Therefore, he complained to HL. They responded to his complaint 
on 19 November 2020. They said theyd experienced an unusually high volume of investor 
activity caused by global events. And that this disrupted their usual services. But they said 
they werent responsible for the financial loss he felt he had suffered. 
In December 2020, Mr Ss regular premium and bonuses were added to the account and he 
sold the shares hed purchased for a profit. By this time his LISA no longer had a negative 
balance. However, Mr S remained unhappy with HLs service and asked us to investigate.
The investigator felt that HL had acted reasonably and didnt ask them to do anything further 
in respect of Mr Ss complaint. Mr S didnt accept the investigators view. He said he hasnt 
received an apology nor been reimbursed by HL. He also said he hadnt received a sufficient 
explanation about how the duplicate dealings had come about.
 
Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S placed the sale for the first time, his account didnt update straightaway which 
caused him to believe it hadnt gone through and so he placed the sale again. 
Mr S was attempting to use HLs online services at a time when global events led to an 
unprecedented surge in the number of people wishing to access their services in order to 
buy and sell. These events include the US election result and the announcement of the first 
Covid-19 vaccine. Such events were outside of HLs control and the unusual circumstances 
led to increased investor activity. HL were simply unable to deal with the volume of activity 
on their platform. Theyve confirmed this meant they experienced issues with the live pricing 
displayed which impacted Mr Ss ability to place sales.  
HL have explained they do invest heavily in their online services. But it would be 
unreasonable for me to expect HL to have the infrastructure in place to cope with such an 
unusually high demand from its users. It wouldnt necessarily be commercially practicable 
given the uniqueness of the situation which led to such a high volume of investors wanting to 
access their service. 
 
Also, this scenario is covered in their terms of service as HL confirmed they couldnt 
guarantee that access to, or trading in, accounts would always be available or be available 
without delay. This included access by website, mobile application, phone and post. They 
explained the service may be interrupted or the services available may be variable in the 
circumstances. Therefore, whilst I appreciate Mr S spent time trying to sort his sales out, I 
cant say the interruption to HLs service was unreasonable in the unprecedented 
circumstances. 
Nevertheless, Mr S placed further sales unintentionally and HL recognised this by reversing 
the unintended sales and removing the additional charges. HL have provided evidence that 
this has been carried out. Therefore, I wouldnt expect them to have done anything more 
here as theyve sought to put Mr Ss account into the position it would have been had the 
duplicate sales not been processed. 
I appreciate Mr S is concerned about the price achieved for the sales. HL have provided a 
copy of their trading record which shows they kept the first sales which Mr S intended to 
make at 13:18:21 from his ISA and 13:48:41 from his LISA. It also shows the price achieved 
for the sales at these times. I can see they reversed the next six sales from his ISA and the 
second sale from his LISA, and this was reasonable because they were placed 
unintentionally. Also, HL have explained Mr S didnt have a sufficient holding to be able to 
sell this volume. So, Im satisfied from the information Ive been provided that HL only 
removed the duplicated sales and that Mr S has received the correct price. 
However, Mr Ss LISA entered a negative balance, and this was because he used some of 
the proceeds from the duplicated sale to buy additional shares in a separate company. As 
some of the proceeds were from the duplicated transaction, it meant that not all of the funds 
should have been available for the purchase. And when HL reversed the duplicated sales 
and removed the proceeds from it, Mr S didnt have enough capital in his LISA and it meant 
he entered a negative balance. But Im not persuaded HL did anything wrong here as Mr S 
hadnt intended to place all of the sales. So, it was right they reversed it and had the 
proceeds not already been used he wouldnt have entered a negative balance. 
HL also sent a letter to Mr S on 16 November 2020 to explain that he was in negative 
balance and the options available. For example, they offered to sell some of the additional 
shares hed purchased, Mr S could add cash or sell other assets. And I think these options 
were set out reasonably. 
Therefore, I dont agree HL have caused Mr S a financial loss. This is because he actually 
had more funds available from the duplicated sale than he should have. And he used these 
proceeds to purchase shares which he then sold at a profit.
 
Ive also considered what Mr S has said about not receiving a sufficient explanation from HL 
about why the duplicated sales had occurred. However, I can see HL wrote to him on 19 November 2020 and explained about the interruption to their services. And I think this was a 
reasonable explanation.  
Overall, I appreciate there was disruption to HLs platform which meant Mr Ss account didnt 
update quickly and led him to conclude the sales hadnt gone through. I appreciate my 
decision will be disappointing for Mr S who strongly believes he should be compensated for 
his time and the negative balance. 
However, the interruption was caused by the surge in investor activity as a result of events 
outside of HLs control. HL only reversed the sales which were unintentional and left the first 
sales with the correct price achieved. Whilst I appreciate Mr Ss account did enter a negative 
balance, this was because he had more funds available because of the duplicated sales 
than he should have had to purchase the additional shares  so he effectively bought more 
shares than he should have been able to. But he later paid for these by way of his regular 
premium and bonuses before selling them at a profit. Therefore, I wouldnt expect HL to do 
anything further here. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman