DRN-4323643
The complaint
Mr P complained that the redress offered by Phoenix Life Limited in relation to a mis-sold 
endowment savings plan was unreasonable.
Phoenix Life upheld Mr Ps mis-sale complaint about a plan sold to him by a predecessor 
business and it is now responsible for the sale. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to 
Phoenix Life as the business that sold the plan.  
What happened
On the recommendation of an advisor, Mr P took out a unit linked endowment assurance 
(the plan) in May 1993. In return for paying in regular premiums which Phoenix Life would 
invest, the plan offered Mr P the potential to grow his wealth over the next 25 years and 
included a guaranteed death benefit along with critical illness cover (CIC).
Some years later, Mr P was prompted to make contact with a claims management company 
(CMC) and this led to him complaining to Phoenix Life that hed been mis-sold the plan. 
Phoenix Life upheld his complaint. It said that it was unclear why Mr P would have needed 
the unit linked endowment and there was no evidence to suggest it was linked to a 
mortgage, but he had needed the life cover and CIC that the plan provided. Phoenix Life 
made a redress offer that didnt include compensation for the cost of the life cover and CIC.
Mr P disagreed with Phoenix Lifes redress proposals and referred his complaint to our 
service through the CMC.
Our investigator was satisfied the formula used by Phoenix Life to calculate redress owed to 
Mr P was fair and reasonable and in line with guidelines issued by this service. So she didnt 
recommend that Phoenix Life needed to take any further action.
Mr P disagreed. In summary, the CMC said:
the regulator had issued guidance relating to the mis-selling of endowment plans 
linked to mortgages which provided for the refund of premiums in full, with interest 
and without any deductions.
Mr P had limited financial means and wished to take out a mortgage in future to buy 
his own house. The plan he was advised to take out meant he was tied into it for 
25 years AND also compelled to use the plan to save for a deposit or repay his 
mortgage. 
He had no dependents at the time and if and when any kind of cover was required, 
that could have been addressed later if his circumstances changed.  
Mr P already had life cover of £50,000, costing £16 per month which he could have 
continued until he needed to review it. This plan cost him £38.20 per month doubling 
to £76.40 after 5 years and tied him into a plan for 25 years which had life and critical 
illness cover he did not need at that time. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt always have power to investigate complaints 
about events that happened more than six years ago but Phoenix Life consented to us 
looking at this complaint. So I am satisfied this is a complaint I can consider.
The crux of Mr Ps complaint is that redress Phoenix life has offered falls short of the amount 
he feels entitled to, as it doesnt include compensation for the life cover and CIC elements of 
the plan which he feels were also mis-sold.
 
The fact find document completed by the advisor at the point of sale was signed by Mr P so 
I consider its reasonable for me to rely on this as an accurate record of what was discussed 
and agreed at the time. This shows that life cover and CIC were identified as priorities so far 
as Mr P was concerned. And I can understand why, as his circumstances suggested he 
would have a need for this sort of cover in order to provide the level of protection he told the 
advisor he wanted. I find Mr P wanted to include the life cover and the CIC in the plan and 
I dont think this made the plan unaffordable for him  especially as this was a low start 
endowment and he already had enough disposable income to cover the cost as the premium 
increased over the next five years. 
Mr P cancelled his existing life cover when he took this plan, so I think he understood that 
this plan offered him all the cover he wanted at the time, at a cost he could afford  and it 
meant all his desired protection was included in one policy, relieving him of the additional 
administrative burden of having to maintain separate policies for different elements of 
protection. 
For these reasons, I find the life cover and CIC were suitable for him. So although its not in 
dispute that the plan was mis-sold, its fair and reasonable that the redress he is owed in 
respect of the mis-sale needs to take this into account. Phoenix Life did this by deducting the 
cost of this cover when applying its redress formula, which seems reasonable to me. 
As far as I can see, Phoenix Life has made an offer that is in line with what I would 
recommend if it hadnt already been proposed. And Mr P hasnt objected to the way Phoenix 
Life proposes to redress the investment part of the plan, so I dont need to say more about 
this except that I agree with the approach it has taken, which reflects the guidance on our 
website. Phoenix Life has provided its calculations to Mr P showing it will refund the 
premiums paid into the plan and compensate Mr P for lost investment opportunity, based on 
the likely return he could have expected if he hadnt wanted to take any investment risk in 
1993. The plan is no longer in force so the benchmark has been applied from the start to the 
end date of the investment and simple interest at the rate of 8% per year added to the loss 
calculated, from the end date of the investment to the date of settlement.
As I am satisfied that Mr P wanted life cover and CIC included in the plan, and he had the 
benefit of this protection throughout the lifetime of the plan, its reasonable that Phoenix Life 
has deducted the cost from the compensation amount and offset the maturity value of the 
plan paid to Mr P in January 2019. Overall, I find this is a fair way to put Mr P broadly in the 
position he should be in if the plan hadnt been mis-sold to him. And I've set out below what 
needs to happen now to put things right for Mr P. 
In coming to my decision I've taken into account the representations sent in response to the 
investigators view but these dont change the outcome. In particular, the guidance referred 
to isnt applicable to the endowment plan Mr P took out as it wasnt sold alongside or tied to 
a particular mortgage.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr P said he still felt the redress proposed was unreasonable, saying that buying a property 
was also a priority and given his modest income and limited scope for saving, locking up his 
savings up for 25 years and paying in over £21,000 in premiums into this plan wasnt 
suitable for him. With no dependents at the time, there was no need for immediate cover. It 
wasnt made clear that by having a low start plan the premiums would work out more than 
had a level premium one been selected from the outset. 
Phoenix Life had nothing further to add beyond noting that my provisional decision reflected 
the terms of the offer it had made to Mr P before he referred his complaint to this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to assure Mr P that I've thought carefully about everything again before 
coming to my final decision. And whilst I have highlighted above only what seem to me to be 
the main points of concern raised, I have read thoroughly and taken into account everything 
Ive been asked to reconsider.  
Mr P hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this case. 
I have addressed in my provisional decision all the points which have a bearing on the 
outcome. To sum up, Phoenix Life has already agreed that the main part of the plan was 
mis-sold so in my decision Ive concentrated on the CIC and life cover. I found that these 
features of the plan matched Mr Ps needs and circumstances and the CIC and life cover 
were suitable for him, for all the reasons set out more fully in my provisional decision. 
I appreciate that Mr P takes a different view to me. But I am satisfied that the redress 
proposed is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
If it hasnt already done so, Phoenix Life should now pay Mr P compensation in line with the 
method of calculation it proposed, just keeping in mind that it will need to update its statutory 
interest calculation. 
Phoenix Life should pay redress owed to Mr P within 28 days of being informed that Mr P 
has accepted the final decision.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint and Phoenix Life Limited should take the steps set out above to 
put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Susan WebbOmbudsman