DRN-3709211
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has not refunded her for payments from her 
account which she says she did not agree to.
What happened
Mrs P, who is represented in this complaint by her friend, Ms V, says that she was 
approached by a man on the street who said he could provide visas for her family members 
so that they could come to the UK and work for him. This man told Mrs P that she could pay 
for the visas in instalments, and Mrs P says that over the next couple of years he took over 
£20,000 from her account. Mrs P does not seem to have ever received the visas that were 
promised.
In March 2015 Mrs P received a payment into her account from the Department for Work 
and Pensions, she says that this money was then taken by the man who she had been 
paying for the visas without her consent. So 1 April 2015 she contacted Barclays to say that 
she needed a new card as funds had been taken out of her account by force. Barclays 
issued Mrs P with a new card. Over the following months, Mrs P says the scammer once 
again made further withdrawals from her account.
In December 2020 Mrs P contacted Barclays to raise a complaint about the payments that 
had been made from her account. Barclays ultimately decided it would not be refunding the 
disputed payments as it said it had not been given the information it needed to fully 
investigate what had happened, particularly in light of the significant amount of time that had 
passed since the disputed payments took place.
Mrs P was unhappy with Barclays response and so she referred her concerns to us. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened, but overall did not think that Barclays 
needed to do anything more. She explained that any of the payments in dispute from before 
October 2014 had been referred to us too late. She also felt that before Mrs P told Barclays 
that she was being in some way forced to make the payments, there had been no clear 
signs that anything was wrong so she didnt feel Barclays should have stepped in at that 
stage. The investigator acknowledged that Barclays could have done more when Mrs P 
contacted it in April 2015, but ultimately felt that even if Barclays had asked further questions 
when payments were made after that date then it likely would not have changed things.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 6 September 2022, explaining why I 
intended to partially uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Both Mrs P and Barclays have now confirmed 
that they are happy to accept the findings set out in that provisional decision. In my 
provisional decision I also explained why I agreed with our investigator that part of Mrs Ps 
complaint ad been referred too late and so was not something we could look at, as Mrs P 
hasnt disagreed with my findings on that issue I wont be commenting on it any further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
I also agree with our investigator that the payments between October 2014 and 1 April 2015 
werent, in the wider context of Mrs Ps account, unusual or concerning enough to have 
meant Barclays should have challenged them or otherwise stopped them from being made. 
And, with the evidence weve seen, I also consider its more likely than not that Mrs P agreed 
to those payments being made, or made them herself, even if that was under the mistaken 
impression that she was making payments for visas.
However, I think that from 1 April 2015 onwards Barclays could have done more to help 
Mrs P and to protect her account. I acknowledge that, when told that someone was using 
force to withdraw funds from Mrs Ps account, Barclays issued her with a new debit card. But 
I dont think this goes anyway near far enough given what Mrs P had told Barclays. Barclays 
notes from April 2015 are limited but they do say that Mrs P had told it that someone was 
assisting her with force to withdraw funds. This should have caused serious concerns for 
Barclays, and I dont see how issuing her with a new debit card could have been considered 
a solution to this issue given that it seems likely that anyone who had forced her to hand 
over her card details or to make withdrawals could do the same thing again with a new card.
I dont know exactly what information Barclays asked of Mrs P at the time she reported the 
issue to Barclays, but I would have expected it to ask detailed questions about exactly what 
was happening, how long it had been going on, and how Mrs P was being forced to give her 
card to this man or to make withdrawals on his behalf. And I do think that in depth 
questioning from Barclays at that stage could have unravelled what was happening here, as 
given Mrs P had already told Barclays at least some of what had been going on  and it 
appears she had also tried to contact the police about this issue around the same time  I 
think its likely she would have been willing to co-operate with the bank to try and stop what 
was happening to her.
I acknowledge that there have been some inconsistencies in Mrs Ps story but given the 
language barrier and the time that has passed that doesnt make me think shes in any way 
acting in bad faith here. So with this in mind, and thinking about all Ive said above, I think 
Barclays should have done more to help Mrs P when she contacted it in April 2015, and if it 
had done so then I consider its likely that any further payments could have been stopped.
As both Mrs P and Barclays have said they are happy to accept my findings as set out 
above, I have nothing to add to what I have already said, and my findings remain 
unchanged.
Putting things right
I consider it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mrs Ps complaint for Barclays to 
put things right by:
- Refunding to Mrs P the three disputed payments made after 1 April 2015  totalling 
£3,630
- add 8% simple interest* to each transaction from the date it was made to the date of 
settlement
*If Barclays considers that its required by HMRC to deduct tax from this interest it should tell 
Mrs P how much it has taken off. Barclays should also give Mrs P a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman