DRN-3428481
The complaint
Mr A complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) wouldnt 
refund a hotel booking.
What happened
Mr A made a hotel booking at an Italian hotel. He paid on his Amex charge card - £834.76. 
The event he was due to attend was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic and he 
cancelled the hotel reservation. He asked for a refund from Amex but it wasnt agreed.
Mr A complained. He said hed been told on the phone by Amex  in a call on 6 March 2020 
- that he would get a full refund. As far as he was concerned, he had a contract with Amex  
Travel Services and they hadnt fulfilled it. And so, he said they should stand by that and 
refund the full amount hed paid.
Amex said that the hotel booking was made at a non-refundable rate, and so while they 
facilitated the booking, they were bound by the hotels terms and conditions. In this case, 
Italian law dictated that a refund didnt have to be made, and so they had no grounds to 
demand one. Amex agreed that Mr A had been told on the phone on 6 March 2020 that a 
refund would be made, and this was an error. For that, they paid Mr A £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill. They said that a section 75 claim couldnt be made as it covered purchases by 
credit cards  and Mr A used his Amex charge card. Amex said he could pursue a 
chargeback claim  which was a voluntary dispute process and advised him what to do if he 
wished to take that course of action.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Amex acted reasonably. He said the 
booking was made between Mr A and the hotel directly. There wasnt a contract between Mr 
A and Amex. Amex had initially said Mr A would get a refund based on information given to 
them by the hotel. The hotels stance was then affected by new legislation in Italy which 
meant they didnt have to make any cash refunds. These changes were outside Amexs 
control. And so  Amex didnt have to make a refund.
Mr A didnt agree. He said he was owed the money by Amex, who he used to make the 
booking. If the Italian law changes took place in June 2020 (he assumed)  then this was 
after the cancellation and so he should get his money back. Mr A asked that an ombudsman 
look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is what Amexs terms and conditions say  when weighed against 
what Mr A was told on the phone on 6 March 2020.
The call on 6 March 2020 cant be listened to as it has been deleted. But  its not in dispute 
that Amex then told Mr A he could get a refund. The notes of the call on Amexs systems 
say, based on (name of hotel)s message I advised I will cancel and a refund will be 
provided.
I did see on Amexs call log that Mr A had called them previously - on 27 February 2020. The 
notes record that they then told Mr A I advised that the booking is non-refundable. So, it 
does appear that Mr A was told previously there wouldnt be a refund.
I can then see there was correspondence between Amex and the hotel and the hotel then 
said they couldnt make a refund due to the change in Italian law. The hotel offered vouchers 
for a future stay. So  it does appear that Amex were trying to act in Mr As best interest to 
get the refund  but couldnt achieve this due to the change in Italian law. 
Ive considered whether the change in Italian law is important in the context of Mr As 
complaint. We asked Amex for more information about the booking. They showed us that 
when Mr A made the booking in July 2019, it was made on a non-refundable basis  the 
booking then showed on his itinerary as : cancel: no refund. 
We looked at Amexs conditions which would have been on Mr As travel documentation. 
These say American Express (AMEX) acts only as agent for the airlines, hotels and other 
contractors providing services (suppliers). By using the services on this itinerary the client 
agrees that neither AMEX nor its related companies, employees or representatives shall be 
liable for any loss costs expense injury accident or damage to person or property resulting 
directly or indirectly from (a) the acts or omissions of such suppliers (b) acts of god or (c) any 
other cause beyond AMEX control. 
I looked at Amexs terms and conditions for their travel services. These say: Bookings may 
be amended or cancelled in accordance with the relevant Travel Provider's (i.e. the hotel in 
this case) terms and conditions and subject to the Travel Provider's amendment and 
cancellation charges. In many cases our flight Travel Provider(s) may impose charges of up 
to 100% of the cost of the travel arrangements and these will be passed onto you.Our 
responsibility is to exercise reasonable skill and care in arranging for you to enter into a 
contract with the relevant Travel Provider (includingaccommodation owner/provider) of 
the components you book, but we do not have any responsibility for the operation of the 
component itself. We shall have no duties to you concerning the actual performance of the 
booking. We shall have no liability to you for any loss, damage, cost, expense or otherwise 
which you suffer and which arises out of the failure to perform or the improper performance 
of the booking
And so  this means Amex arranged Mr As booking but had no responsibility for any 
cancellation costs. So  if the hotel wouldnt meet the cost of cancellation  for whatever 
reason  then Amex had no responsibility to Mr A. And so  the matter of the change in 
Italian law isnt relevant  the fact is that the hotel wouldnt refund the money to Mr A or to 
Amex and so Amex couldnt do anymore.
I can see that Mr A couldnt make a claim under the section 75 rules as he used a charge 
card and not a credit card for the reservation. Amex told us that he started a chargeback 
claim under the voluntary disputes process but he didnt provide the necessary 
documentation for that to proceed. 
And so  its clear that Amex had no obligation to refund the money to Mr A. Therefore, Mr 
As complaint comes down to whether Amex should pay more than £50 for their error on the 
phone call on 6 March 2020. I can see that this error cause frustration and annoyance for Mr 
A  but it doesnt mean that Amex must pay him the full amount of the booking. And on balance and in the circumstances of Mr As complaint, I think that the goodwill payment of 
£50 was reasonable, and I wont be asking then to do anymore here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman