DRN-3268437
The complaint
Mr S complains about Ageas Insurance Limited (AIL) and the service he received when he 
called them to make a claim on his key insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S held a key insurance policy that was underwritten by AIL. AIL used an agent to 
administer this policy and the policy was sold to Mr S through a broker, who Ill refer to as 
H.
On 13 August, Mr S called AIL through their agent to make a claim on his policy. He 
explained hed lost his keys and required a replacement. But on this call, AIL told Mr S that 
their system showed his policy had lapsed. Mr S disputed this and explained he was still 
making payments. So, AIL advised Mr S to call H to discuss this further.
Mr S called H the same day, who confirmed Mr S still had a policy in place. And they advised 
Mr S should call AIL back explaining this. So, Mr S called AIL back and relayed his 
conversation with H. Following this, AIL made further checks to their system and discovered 
Mr S did have a valid policy. His claim was then progressed in line with the policy terms and 
conditions and Mr S was re-imbursed for his replacement keys on 25 August. But Mr S was 
unhappy, so he raised a complaint.
Mr S was unhappy that AIL failed to complete the necessary checks to find he had a valid 
policy on the first call he made to them. He was unhappy this led to him having to make two 
calls unnecessarily, one to H and a second to AIL. Mr S explained he suffers from a disability 
that makes phone calls difficult, so he wanted to be compensated for the impact the 
additional calls had on his health both physically and mentally.
AIL responded and upheld Mr S complaint. They accepted their system incorrectly showed 
Mr S policy as lapsed when it wasnt. So, they accepted that Mr S had been told to call H, 
and then call them back, unnecessarily. And they apologised for any upset this caused. But 
they didnt think any compensation was required, as Mr S claim was progressed within the 
same time frame it wouldve been had his policy been found on the first call he made. Mr S 
was unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He recognised AIL hadnt 
advised Mr S correctly on the first call. But he thought AILs apology was fair. He explained 
AIL werent aware of Mr S disability so he didnt think they had the opportunity to make 
reasonable adjustments to consider this. And he didnt think Mr S claim had been delayed or 
disadvantaged as it was still submitted on the same day and approved within the same time 
it wouldve been on the first call. So, while he recognised the inconvenience Mr S was 
caused, he didnt think AIL needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree. He didnt think AIL being aware of his disability wouldve changed the 
situation he found himself in. And he maintained his view that he should be compensated, as 
the call he made to H, unnecessarily, was laborious and impacted his health. As Mr S didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
It's not in dispute that AIL gave Mr S the incorrect information when he called them to raise 
his claim the first time. AIL have accepted their system showed that the policy had lapsed 
but this was incorrect due to a technical issue. And because of this, they recognised Mr S 
needed to make two extra calls, to H and to themselves again, and they apologised for any 
upset this caused.
As AIL dont dispute an error was made, I dont intend to discuss this any further. Instead, 
my decision focuses on what I think AIL should do to put things right as this is where Mr S 
main disagreement lies.
Mr S has commented on his disability and how making calls can be difficult. So, I understand 
why he thinks this should be considered. But I cant see that AIL were made aware at the 
time that Mr S had a disability which made making calls harder. So, I dont think they were 
given the opportunity to consider this and put in place reasonable adjustments to prevent 
this. I recognise Mr S doesnt think this has any bearing on the complaint as he doesnt think 
AIL wouldve done anything differently but Im unable to speculate on whether this is the 
case. As AIL werent aware of Mr S disability when they referred him to H, I dont think itd 
be fair for me to ask AIL to do anything more purely because of this.
And Im satisfied that Mr S claim wasnt delayed by the error AIL made. Ive seen the terms 
and conditions of Mr S policy, which explain AIL couldnt guarantee a replacement key could 
be provided on the same day. And AIL have explained any claim for a lost key cant be 
authorised for three days, in line with the policy sold by H. Ive seen Mr S claim was 
authorised on 16 August, three days after he called AIL. So, I think Mr S claim was 
progressed as effectively as it wouldve been, had AIL not made an error in the first call.
So, I think the impact of AILs error is limited to Mr S having to make two additional calls on 
the same day. And as Ive explained, I dont think Im able to consider Mr S disability as part 
of this impact as AIL werent aware of it at the time. Considering both of the calls were made 
on the same day, and Mr S claim wasnt adversely impacted, I think the apology AIL have 
offered is fair on this occasion. So, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. But I hope it goes some way to 
providing Mr S with closure to his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint about Ageas Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Josh HaskeyOmbudsman