DRN-3250573
The complaint
Mr G complains that Experian Limited unfairly recorded information he disputes on his credit 
file. 
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In July 2019 a media provider (V) recorded a default on Mr Gs credit file. Mr G took V to 
court and obtained a County Court Judgement (CCJ) against it.
Mr G later complained to Experian and asked it to remove Vs default entry from his credit 
file. Mr G says the information recorded isnt in line with the CCJ he obtained against V.
Experian contacted V twice to check whether the default recorded was accurate. Each time, 
V responded to say the information it reported was correct.
Experian responded to Mr Gs complaint but didnt agree it had made any errors. Experian 
said it couldnt independently remove the default without Vs consent, which had been 
declined. Experian also gave details of how Mr G could register a Notice of Correction 
(NOC) on his credit file.
Mr G referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. In his 
complaint submission, Mr G also raised concerns about an entry from a utilities supplier (B). 
Mr G has explained he doesnt agree that B is reporting accurate information.
We asked Experian for its case file and it responded to Mr Gs concerns about the 
information recorded by B. Experian explained Mr G hadnt previously raised a dispute or 
query about the information B recorded. As a result, Experian didnt initially raise a query 
with B for Mr G. Experian repeated that it cant amend or remove an entry without the 
permission of the reporting business.
The investigator reviewed Mr Gs complaint but thought Experian had dealt it fairly so didnt 
ask it to do anything else. Mr G asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties and 
Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all 
the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I think its reasonable to note that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute 
resolution service. Were an alternative to the courts and decide complaints on a fair and 
reasonable basis. So whilst Ive taken all the applicable legislation and regulations into 
account, my decision will be based on what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Gs complaint.
The Information Commissioners Office provides guidance on which party is responsible for 
information recorded on a credit file. It says the reporting business (in this case thats V and 
B) have a responsibility for the information recorded. The ICO says credit reference 
agencies cant amend data without permission from the reporting business. The guidance 
further says the ICO expects credit reference agencies to take reasonable measures to 
ensure information recorded by reporting business is accurate.
Im satisfied the guidance provided by ICO is clear in setting out what responsibilities 
Experian has and that it cant make amendments to information without the consent of the 
reporting business.
I recently asked Experian to provide some additional information. Experian has confirmed 
that in June 2021 V ceased reporting the default on Mr Gs credit file. Ive seen an updated 
entry and it shows as settled with no default or arrears recorded.
I understand Mr G says Experian shouldve stopped reporting the default when he asked it to 
and sent a copy of the CCJ but I dont agree. Ive seen a copy of the CCJ and whilst it says 
V owed Mr G money, it made no mention of any amendments the court required Experian to 
make. Im satisfied Experian acted fairly by reverting to V to check whether the default 
should remain. And Im satisfied that Experian did take reasonable steps to check the 
information it has reported over time is accurate.
I understand Mr G has concerns about the practices of B and the impact to his credit file. 
Experian raised a dispute with B about the arrears information recorded on Mr Gs credit file 
in May 2021. B responded and confirmed the information reported is correct and didnt give 
Experian permission to change it.
Mr G has told us about the basis of his concerns about the way B operates. But we cant 
look at complaints about B so Im not going to comment on its actions. In this decision, I can 
only look at Experian and whether its treated Mr G fairly by recording information reported 
by B. Im satisfied that Experian has acted fairly by raising a dispute with B and acting on its 
response. If Mr B remains unhappy with the information B has recorded he has the option of 
taking it up directly.
I understand Mr G tried to record separate NOCs for both V and Bs credit file entries. 
Experian has explained the nature of the information Mr G wanted to include meant it 
couldnt approve his requests. Ive reviewed Experians guidance and Im satisfied its clear 
in explaining what information it can record within a NOC. I leave it to Mr G to decide 
whether he wants to record another in relation to B. But I havent been persuaded Experian 
acted unfairly by declining his request to record NOCs because of the information included.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but I havent been persuaded that Experian has treated him 
unfairly. As a result, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or points they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr G responded and confirmed he doesnt agree and feels the outcome is flawed. Mr G 
asked why I didnt refer to specific legislation or regulations. Mr G said Experian had failed to 
follow the CCJ and remove the entries from his credit file or refer the NOCs to the ICO. 
Experian responded to confirm it accepted the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr G for the level of detail hes given in his response. Im not going to 
comment again on all of the points I covered in my provisional decision but Ive taken 
everything hes said on board. 
I understand Mr G feels our decision shouldve referenced the different legislation and 
regulations he referred to in his complaint submissions. As I said in my provisional decision, 
were an informal alternative to the courts. We decide the outcome of a complaint on a fair 
and reasonable basis. Ive taken all the points Mr G has made into account, including the 
references hes made to different rules, legislation and regulations when reaching my 
decision. But my decision focuses on whether I think Experian treated Mr G fairly when it 
declined his request to delete the two entries from his credit file. 
Mr Gs response has raised a number of points in relation to the way B and V operate. But in 
this decision Im only looking at Experians actions and whether its treated him fairly. I make 
no comment on the actions of B and V. 
Ive relooked at the CCJ document. The CCJ says V should pay a monetary settlement to 
Mr G. The CCJ doesnt make any reference to Experian or say it has to remove Vs entry 
from Mr Gs credit file. As I said in my provisional decision, I dont agree its unfair for 
Experian to refuse Mr Gs request to remove Vs account from his credit file without its 
permission. 
Mr G has pointed to industry guidance provided by the ICO that says Experian shouldve 
referred his NOC to it to make a decision about whether they should be shown on his credit 
file. Ive seen emails from Mr G asking Experian to add a NOC for both B and V. But 
Experian says the content of Mr Gs NOCs makes them unsuitable to be published. Ive also 
seen email correspondence where Experian asked Mr G whether he wanted it to refer his 
NOC to the ICO after it refused to add it to his credit file.  
The ICO website gives guidance for situations where a NOC is disputed. It says consumers 
can refer a NOC to decide whether it should be published or not. So whilst I agree Experian 
couldve referred the NOCs, Im satisfied it did respond to Mr G and ask if thats a step he 
wanted to take. Mr G has the option of referring the matter to the ICO directly. If he would 
prefer that Experian refer the NOCs, Mr G is welcome to ask our investigator to request that 
for him. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, but I havent been persuaded to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. I remain satisfied that Experian has treated Mr G fairly, 
so Im not telling it to take any further action to resolve this complaint.  
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman