DRN-2924830
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs L acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs L. The car here was nearly 
five years old and had already completed about 52,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear, but I dont think theyd expect the car to be 
developing engine failure at that point.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when MotoNovo were responsible for cars 
quality. So, I think its likely the loss of coolant Mrs L complained to the dealership about only 
a week or so after the car was supplied to her, was a problem that was present when the car 
was supplied.
The dealership replaced the radiator on the car at that point. The relevant legislation 
explains that if a repair fails the consumer should be allowed to reject the car.
But as it was more than six months before Mrs L had further issues with the car so in those 
circumstances the relevant legislation puts the onus on the consumer to demonstrate the 
problems were most likely present when the car was supplied. In this case Mrs L would need 
to demonstrate that the ensuing problems were related to a failed repair on the coolant 
system.
I think Mrs L has been able to provide sufficient evidence to suggest that is the case. The 
evidence suggests that the radiator replacement didnt fix the issue, and that the coolant loss 
was a symptom of problems with the engine that the independent inspector, and the garage 
that have diagnosed subsequent problems, have both identified.
I say that because the independent inspector, who is an expert in these matters, thinks the 
problem was most likely to have been present at the point the car was supplied to Mrs L. He 
explained:
owork carried out by the dealership (replacement of the radiator) did not 
completely address the issues;
othere is a leak of coolant into the engine;
osealant has been used to affect a temporary repair and that was noted in the 
coolant system by the repairing garage in May 2019;
The inspector suggests there is likely to be a severely blown head gasket and damage to the 
cylinder head which may require replacement. Its his opinion that it wouldnt be 
economically viable to fix the car.
So, I think there is still a problem with this car and its likely the attempt to repair the problem 
didnt work.
In those circumstances, as the car is not of satisfactory quality, the relevant legislation would 
allow Mrs L to reject the vehicle.
Putting things right
The car hasnt been driveable since October 2019 and Mrs L stopped paying MotoNovo on 
24 February 2020. 
I dont think the business were wrong to pursue payment and eventually default and 
terminate the agreement because, when Mrs L stopped paying, she hadnt demonstrated the 
repair had been unsatisfactory and the onus was on her to do so.
But as Im persuaded there now is evidence the repair failed Ive thought about how best to 
put things right for Mrs L.
Motonovo should allow Mrs L to reject the car and they should collect it at no cost to Mrs L. 
The garage who have been storing the car have explained theyd be happy to arrange for it 
to be scrapped but as the car is MotoNovos property it is for them to decide whether to do 
so. Its important to note that the garage intend to scrap the car if no action is taken before 
the end of August 2021 so MotoNovo should contact them as soon as possible.
MotoNovo will need to refund Mrs Ls deposit and as shes been deprived of that money they 
should add interest to that refund.Mrs L had completed about 15,500 miles in the car by the time the inspector completed his 
examination of the vehicle. I think, considering the mileage completed, Mrs L should be held 
responsible for paying for the car up to the point at which she stopped making payments on 
24 February 2020. Thereafter MotoNovo should waive any payments due.
But Im not suggesting any finance instalments are refunded as given the mileage completed 
I think Mrs L had fair use of the car 
5) Motonovo should retain all payments made prior to 24 February 2020 to recognise fair
usage. According to the independent report the mileage reported was 67,599.
6) Motonovo should remove the default and ensure no adverse record on the credit file.
7) Motonovo refund £150 for the inspection report
8) Motonovo pay £100 for the trouble and upset caused for supplying a faulty vehicle and
having to top up coolant more than what normally would be required had the vehicle
been of satisfactory quality. This is also to recognise the time spent taking the vehicle to
the garage and the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman