DRN-2574355
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that a local agent was able to repair his laptop when Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc (D&G) failed to do so on two occasions.
What happened
Mr Ds laptop became damaged after it was dropped. He had insurance through D&G which 
protected some appliances, including his laptop. So he sent the laptop to D&Gs agents for 
repair. But after two attempts it still wasnt fixed. So he was told to take it to a local repairer. 
Mr D is unhappy that D&G had two chances to repair the laptop but failed to get it working 
properly - especially when his local repair shop was able to do so on the same day.
D&G said itd arranged for a specialist firm to collect and carry out the repairs. Several parts 
were replaced and the laptop was returned to Mr D. But about three weeks later Mr D said 
the laptop wouldnt switch on. So D&G arranged for its collection and restored the operating 
system. After testing the laptop it was returned to Mr D.
D&G said Mr D got in touch a couple of weeks later because it still wasnt working properly. 
So it offered to either collect it again or let Mr D take it to an independent repair agent. Mr D 
chose the second option. When D&G received an invoice for £30 it showed the laptop had 
been serviced and updated. That showed it was a software issue - there hadnt been a failed 
repair. And that wasnt something that was covered by the policy. But D&G said it would 
reimburse Mr D as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with D&Gs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. Our investigator looked at Mr Ds policy. It provided cover for 
accidental damage. And D&G had replaced the screen and plastic housing during the first 
repair. The policy also provided cover for breakdown arising from faults. And he thought a 
laptop not powering up was a fault  so again he thought D&Gs repair was the right thing to 
do. The operating system had been restored and the battery successfully tested. 
But the invoice from Mr Ds local repair shop showed hed paid £30 for a service and update. 
It didnt show that any repairs or faults had been identified. And he didnt think a laptop 
needing a service and update was likely to be damage related. So our investigator felt D&G 
had acted fairly by repaying Mr D for the cost of getting his laptop up and running again. And 
he wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ds frustration. Although D&G failed to repair the damage to his laptop 
his local repair agent was able to fix it straight away. And I want to recognise the impact this 
must have had on Mr D. 
It wouldve been upsetting to still have problems with the laptop after he thought itd been 
resolved. And it mustve been frustrating to find a local repair agent could fix the problems 
immediately when D&G appeared to have failed.
For me to say D&G acted unfairly Id need to see it failed to act in line with the terms and 
conditions of the insurance policy. And if that wasnt the case Id need to see that D&Gs 
actions failed to put Mr D back in the position he was in before the laptop was damaged. But 
in this instance I dont think thats the case.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ds insurance policy. It provides covers for the 
costs of accidental damage and breakdown arising from faults occurring after any relevant 
manufacturers warranty period.
When D&G first arranged for the laptop to be repaired there was clear physical damage. And 
D&G arranged the replacement of the broken screen and housing under the accidental 
damage section of the policy. 
The laptop was returned to Mr D but a few weeks later he had problems with it powering up. 
I think this wouldve fallen under the breakdown arising from faults section of the policy. And 
D&Gs repairers restored the operating system on the laptop and tested it was working on 
mains power and its own internal battery.
But Mr D was still having problems a few weeks later. And although the insurance policy 
says repairs must normally be carried out through D&Gs approved engineers it agreed that 
Mr D could take the laptop to a local repair shop. 
Mr D says the laptop was returned the same day. And I can see the invoice from the repair 
shop totalled £30 for laptop service and update. But it doesnt seem to suggest any repairs 
or replacements were needed. 
I think on both occasions when D&G authorised the laptops collection it acted correctly in 
trying to return Mr Ds laptop to a fully operating state within the terms and conditions of the 
policy. And I think it did the right thing in agreeing for Mr D to have a local repair shop look at 
the laptop when he was still having problems. It wouldve speeded up the collect and return 
process and allowed for a second opinion.
I cant be sure exactly what was done under the service and update. But D&G agreed to 
cover the cost even though it might not have fallen within the terms of the policy. The policy 
says it will not provide any services or pay for any costs not expressly set out in the 
description of the cover. But I understand Mr D has now received a refund of £30 to cover 
the invoice. And I think thats the right outcome.
I do appreciate how frustrating this mustve been for Mr D to have to return his laptop. He 
feels D&G failed to properly repair it. But the damaged screen and housing were 
successfully replaced. And its difficult to say how much the later power and software issues 
were related to the initial physical damage. D&Gs agents said they tested the repairs and 
software reinstallation before returning the laptop to Mr D. And I think D&G acted reasonably 
in agreeing that Mr D could use a local repair shop on the third occasion and then 
reimbursing Mr D with the cost.
Im pleased to see Mr D hasnt had any further issues with the laptop. Hes now back in the 
position he was in before the damage was caused. I realise Mr D feels let down by D&G. But 
based on everything Ive seen I cant say D&G has acted unfairly. And I wont be asking it to 
do anything more. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman