DRN-3085026
The complaint
Mr G complains that a van he took from BNP Paribas Leasing Solutions Limited (BNP) was 
not of satisfactory quality. He says he should be able to reject it.
What happened
In April 2017 Mr G entered into a hire agreement with BNP for the rental of a new van for his 
business. Under the agreement he was to make an advance payment of £1,777.54, followed 
by 59 monthly payments of £296.26 and a final payment of £4,297.20. The minimum rental 
period was to be 60 months.
From about November 2018 Mr G began experiencing problems with the van. Between that 
time and September 2019 it was repaired under warranty on eight separate occasions.
Following the final repair in September 2019 Mr G complained to BNP. It issued a final 
response letter on 22 October 2019, saying in summary that it was not upholding Mr Gs 
complaint because repairs had been carried out under warranty. Mr G referred the matter to 
this service towards the end of November 2019.
In January 2020 Mr G told us that he was having further problems with the van. He had 
identified a leak and said that an airbag warning light was illuminated. BNP said that Mr G 
had not informed it of any further issues after the September 2019 repairs had been 
completed.
In May 2020 our investigator issued an assessment of Mr Gs complaint. He concluded, in 
summary, that the van had not been of satisfactory quality and that Mr G should be able to 
reject it. He noted that the further issues identified by Mr G supported that view. He 
recommended that BNP provide refunds in respect of the time the van was being repaired 
and pay Mr G £150. In addition, Mr G should have the option of taking a replacement van or 
of ending the hire agreement and receiving a partial refund of the advance payment he had 
made.
BNP did not accept the investigators recommendation. It said that it had not had the 
opportunity to consider what Mr G had said about events after September 2019, but that all 
issues up to then had been repaired under warranty  that is, at no cost to Mr G. It was 
willing to consider those further issues separately as a new complaint. It also said that, as far 
as it was aware, Mr G had had the use of a courtesy van while his was unavailable.
The case was therefore passed to an ombudsman, who issued a provisional decision. The 
ombudsman was broadly in agreement with the investigators recommendations, although 
he noted that it was by then nearly a year since the investigator had issued his initial view.
The ombudsman thought that BNP should have allowed Mr G to reject the van after the 
repairs carried out in September 2019. He thought that, given the number of repairs that had 
been needed, the van was not of satisfactory quality.
He noted too that the hire agreement sought to exclude liability for the quality of the van, 
saying that the hirer should rely on any manufacturers warranty. He considered however 
that such a clause was unlikely to meet the reasonableness test in the Unfair Contract 
Terms Act 1979 (UCTA). BNP could not therefore rely on it.
The ombudsman who issued the first provisional decision was unfortunately unable to 
continue with his consideration of Mr Gs complaint, so it was been passed to me. I 
considered the case and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion, I issued a 
second provisional decision. I set out below my provisional findings.   
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will first of all comment on the faults which Mr G says developed in or around January 
2020. Before this service can consider a complaint, the respondent (in this case BNP) must 
have an opportunity to address it. This complaint was however referred to this service in 
November 2019, so BNP did not have the opportunity to consider  in the context of this 
complaint  anything that happened after that. I have not therefore taken into account 
anything that happened after BNP issued its final response letter on 22 October 2019.
Even if I were to take the view  as the investigator did  that Mr Gs further comments 
support his case that the van was not of satisfactory quality, BNP has not had an opportunity 
to examine or comment on the further evidence he has supplied or to arrange a further 
inspection of the van. In the circumstances, I do not believe that I can fairly attach any 
weight to that evidence.
As the first ombudsman noted, the effect of the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982 is 
that hire agreements of the type Mr G entered into include an implied condition that goods 
will be of satisfactory quality. He noted too that it is possible to exclude such a term, subject 
to the reasonableness test set out in UCTA. He did not think that clause 6.1 of the hire 
agreement satisfied that test.
I do not believe it is necessary for me to reach a conclusion about the effect of UCTA in this 
case. I would observe however that, in hiring the van, Mr G was acting in the course of his 
business, so has rather less statutory protection than a consumer would have. And I note too 
that clause 6.1 begins:
You acknowledge that You have selected the Goods for Your own use relying on Your 
own skill and judgment and have obtained from the manufacturer any Guarantee of the 
Goods You require
So, clause 6.1 did not simply seek to exclude liability on the part of BNP. It also sought to 
ensure that Mr G had sufficient appropriate protection through a manufacturers warranty. To 
that extent, it sought to shift liability to the manufacturer rather than to leave Mr G with no 
protection.
Perhaps more importantly, however, Mr G did have the benefit of a manufacturers warranty 
and used it. And one effect of relying on the guarantee was that repairs were carried out 
without the need for Mr G to show that the repairs were needed because of a fault with the 
van.
Since repairs were carried out under warranty and at no cost to Mr G, I am afraid that I do 
not believe that it would be fair to allow him, in addition, to reject the van. I can of course 
understand that Mr G feels that his van should not have needed repairs on eight occasions 
and also why he did not want to keep it after so many repairs. And I agree that at least some 
of those repairs appear to have been significant and unexpected in a vehicle less than three years old.
However, at the point Mr G brought this complaint he had a van which had been repaired 
successfully and at no cost to himself. I do not believe in the circumstances that it would be 
fair to allow him, in addition, to reject it.
Neither Mr G nor BNP has responded to the second provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party had provided me with any further evidence or arguments, I see no 
reason to reach a different conclusion from that which I reached in my provisional decision.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require BNP Paribas Leasing Solutions Limited to do 
anything further to resolve Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman