DRN-1270448
 
The complaint
 Mrs S has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a store card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Allianz has taken responsibility for this complaint, so Ill be referring to Allianz in the rest of 
this decision. 
What happened
Mrs S took out the PPI in 1993 at the same time as applying for the store card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ss 
complaint for reasons that Ill now explain.
Mrs S says she wasnt aware that PPI had been added to her account and doesnt think she 
agreed to take it. Ive no doubt that Mrs S has given her best recollection of what happened. 
But I need to bear in mind that this sale took place over twenty-five years ago and memories 
of such events do tend to fade with time. So I need to decide what I think is most likely to 
have happened then based on all the information now available to me.
Unfortunately. Allianz doesnt still have a copy of Mrs Ss store card application. But this isnt 
that surprising given how long ago it was completed. Businesses dont need to keep such 
records over these lengths of time. But its provided a sample copy of the application forms 
in use at around this time. I can see that theres a section about PPI on this and I can see 
within this theres an option to choose whether or not PPI was wanted.
The box to have PPI added would need to have been ticked by Mrs S, and she would also 
have needed to enter her name and date of birth as the person to be insured for the PPI to 
be added to her account. If she hadnt wanted it she could have left these blank.
So I think its most likely that Mrs S did choose to take the PPI at the time, knowing she 
could choose not to do so. But I can understand why she might not remember this now.
I don think Allianz advised Mrs S to take the PPI policy. This means it didnt need to ensure 
that it was suitable for her. But it did need to provide enough information for her to be able to 
make an informed choice about whether or not it was right for her. I can see that the monthly cost of the policy was shown in the PPI section of the application form together with a 
reference to where further information could be found.
I still think that the information Allianz provided could have been better than it was. But from 
what I know about her circumstances at the time, I dont think better information would have 
changed her mind about taking the policy. I say this because:
Mrs S appears to have been eligible for the policy and doesnt seem to have been 
affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
 
Mrs S says she was entitled to sick pay and a redundancy package from her 
employer. She also says she had some savings and could have relied on relatives for 
financial support in need. But her PPI policy would have paid out in addition to these 
other means and, potentially, for longer than some of these might have lasted. So I 
think she would still have valued the extra protection it gave her if things went wrong.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs S and, as it was paid for 
monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
 
So I dont think that Mrs S has lost out by anything that Allianz may have done wrong when it 
sold her this PPI policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman