DRN-4293147
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly told him hed have to pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC) if he changed products. As a result he missed out on lower interest 
rate products. Mr M also complains about the time Barclays took to investigate and locate 
recordings of his calls. He asks that Barclays allows him to take out an interest rate product 
available in early 2022 and pays compensation for his stress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr M took out a mortgage with Barclays in late 2021 with an interest rate tracker product. 
Mr M says when interest rates started to rise in early 2022 he decided to take out a fixed rate 
product. Mr M says Barclays incorrectly told him on several calls that hed have to pay an 
ERC of about £3,000, and this put him off switching to a fixed rate product. He was given 
correct information in September 2022 and took out a fixed rate product.
Barclays agreed it gave Mr M incorrect information. It said Mr M could take out an interest 
rate product which was available in May 2022 and paid £400 compensation.
Mr M says he wants a product available in January or February 2022 (with a rate of 1.58%) 
and more compensation. 
Our investigator said Barclays gave Mr M incorrect information about the ERC on 16 
February 2022. She said it should apply an interest rate product available at that time. She 
said £400 compensation was fair for the upset this matter caused.
Barclays agreed to apply an interest rate product available on 16 February 2022. Mr M 
chose a 10-year fixed rate product. As Mr Ms tracker rate was lower at that time, Barclays 
agreed to apply the fixed rate to his account from 17 May 2022. 
Mr M didnt agree that £400 compensation was fair given he had to make numerous calls to 
Barclays and overpaid for months. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties agree that Barclays wrongly told Mr M in mid-February 2022 that hed have to 
pay an ERC if he took out a fixed rate product. The parties also agree that Barclays should 
put this right by allowing Mr M to take out a product available at that time and backdating 
this. As Mr Ms tracker rate in early 2022 was lower than the fixed interest rate for the 
product he chose, Barclays applied the fixed interest rate product from mid-May 2022.
Having applied the new product to Mr Ms account, Barclays adjusted his account for the 
overpaid interest (of about £550). It says it first credited this to Mr Ms mortgage account and 
then transferred it to his current account. Barclays provided screen shots of the credit and 
debit which show this. 
I think this was a fair resolution to put Mr M into the financial position he would have been in 
if Barclays hadnt made an error. 
Mr M asks for compensation for the inconvenience and stress that Barclays caused. 
Barclays made errors and I think its right that it offered compensation. 
Mr M recently told Barclays this matter has affected his health. Im sorry to hear this. 
Barclays complaint notes from late 2022 say it didnt find any record of Mr M being 
vulnerable, or any suggestion of this during their calls. Barclays didnt know Mr M might be 
vulnerable or need support when it responded to his complaint. It will be able to take this into 
account in future.
Barclays gave Mr M incorrect information on more than one occasion. This resulted in him 
having to make further calls about taking out a new product. As mortgage interest rates were 
rising this was no doubt worrying for Mr M as well as inconvenient. 
This service cant always look into complaint handling (which isnt a regulated activity). We 
can do so when the way in a complaint is dealt with delays the underlying problem being 
sorted out. That was the case here. Despite acknowledging that it gave Mr M wrong 
information in February 2022, Barclays didnt initially offer to put matters right from February 
2022. Barclays took longer than necessary to put matters right, and Mr M had to bring his 
complaint to us. This caused him further inconvenience.
When he brought the complaint to us, Mr M said he was impacted financially by paying 
higher monthly mortgage payments  this has now been put right. Mr M overpaid by about 
£550 which has been refunded to him. He didnt say the higher monthly payments caused 
financial hardship, or that hed struggled to maintain them. 
Taking all of this into account, I think the £400 compensation paid by Barclays is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
While Barclays did make errors here, I think its now done enough to put matters right and it 
doesnt need to do anymore.  
My final decision
My decision is that the steps taken and compensation paid by Barclays Bank UK PLC is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman