DRN-4058145
The complaint and background
Mr S complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money lost when he fell victim to an 
investment scam. For the purposes of this decision, reference to Mr S includes the 
submissions of his professional representative. 
Where the particulars of the complaint are well known to both parties, I wont detail them 
again here. Rather, Ill focus on setting out the key reasons for my decision. I hope Mr S and 
Revolut wont take this as a discourtesy; its just a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service.
In short, the complaint concerns three payments Mr S made in January 2022 to what he 
thought was an investment opportunity. He made the following card payments to Binance, 
an online cryptocurrency exchange platform which converts fiat currency to crypto: £1,600 
on 12 January 2022, and £2,000 and £1,000 on 14 January 2022. Once Binance converted 
Mr Ss money to crypto, he then sent the funds onwards to what he believed was an online 
platform where he could invest to make a profit. However, later on in 2022, Mr S realised 
hed been scammed and the money was lost once transferred onwards from Binance.
Mr S raised a complaint with Revolut, citing that it ought to have protected him from being 
scammed. Revolut did not agree, countering that Mr S had only opened his account the 
same month he made the disputed payments, meaning that it could not reasonably identify 
that Mr S was being defrauded when instructing the three transactions. Revolut also 
explained that Mr S had reported the events too late to raise a chargeback claim (the 
relevant recourse method for the card payments). Overall, Revolut did not uphold the 
complaint or offer a refund of any sort.  
Mr S brought the dispute to our service and one of our investigators concluded that Revolut 
could not fairly be required to refund the payments. Because Mr S disagrees, the matter has 
been escalated to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything carefully, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator  
and fundamentally for the same reasons. I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr S. 
This is a finely balanced case and Id like to assure him that Ive duly considered everything 
thats been provided. Including, the vulnerabilities that he has described to this service. 
But based on the evidence, Im not persuaded that Revolut ought to refund the disputed 
transactions on account of the following:
 Its common ground between the parties that Mr S authorised these payments. 
Accordingly, Ive considered what the payments being authorised means in the 
circumstances of this complaint, taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes and standards and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
 In summary, Revolut has a responsibility to monitor accounts and payments made to, 
amongst other things, prevent fraud and scams. And it should have systems in 
place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate its 
customers are at risk of fraud. So, in the individual circumstances of this case, Ive 
considered whether Revolut should have deemed these transactions as being so 
unusual or uncharacteristic that it ought to have given it sufficient grounds for 
suspecting fraud.
 In fairness, the first thing I must bear in mind is that Mr S hadnt been with Revolut for 
long at all before making these payments  he had only held a relationship with it for 
a little over two weeks. During which, there were no payments out of the account that 
I can see. The lack of information and history of expenditure naturally limited the 
amount of data that Revolut had to accurately gauge Mr Ss usual spending pattern. 
 To put it another way, its logical to me that having very little (if any) intel to monitor 
and learn from would make it innately difficult to construct an accurate pattern from 
which Revolut could use to look for potentially risky transactions. Besides, as far as 
Im reasonably aware, Mr S opened this Revolut account for precisely this reason  
to credit money into the account in order to remit money out. This is how he 
continued to operate once these three transactions were made, using his holding 
with Revolut to pay money for a variety of different reasons. This is very common 
given the nature of the account  its main purpose is a means to send and receive 
funds. 
 This is significant when considering whether Revolut ought to have taken steps to 
intervene and question the payments in contention; the regulatory landscape, along 
with good industry practice, sets out a requirement for account providers to protect 
their customers from fraud and financial harm. Still, while the relevant obligations are 
designed to protect consumers, they are also in place to ensure that providers like 
Revolut provide services without undue delay. Consequently, there is a balance to be 
struck between providers identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent, 
and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
 The transactions here are not for such sizeable amounts that Id necessarily expect 
Revolut to question them. Particularly, as these types of accounts are often used for 
card payments, in a manner in keeping with how Mr Ss payments would have looked 
to Revolut. Whats more, Im not persuaded that there was anything else about the 
payments that should have made them seem overly unusual either. I must consider 
that consumers are able to use their accounts to make purchases and send money 
for a variety of different reasons; this is a matter for their discretion. 
 Mr S submits that a new payee (i.e. setting up a payment to send money to Binance 
for the first time) should have been enough to have triggered Revolut to take action. 
Im afraid I dont agree with Mr S. As Ive already explained, Revolut does have 
responsibilities when it comes to transaction monitoring. But Im not satisfied that, on 
its own, the creation of a new payee is enough to indicate uncharacteristic activity 
and warrant intervention. Indeed, the nature of a new account is that it would be 
expected that a number of different payment destinations would be remitted to in the 
first few months. I turn next to Mr Ss argument that Revolut ought to have recognised these payments 
were going to a cryptocurrency related merchant, and that Binance is well known for 
being affiliated and used in connection with fraud and scams. Its important to note 
that, on the basis of the available evidence, there is no suggestion that Binance was 
complicit in this scam, other than to facilitate the conversion of fiat currency to crypto. 
 Ive thought intently about the fact that these payments were made to a 
cryptocurrency provider. Not least, as its true that scams involving cryptocurrency 
are becoming increasingly prevalent and well known within the payments industry. 
Still, at the time these payments were made, I think it was reasonable for Revolut to 
take into account a range of factors when deciding whether to make further enquiries 
of its customer about a particular payment or set of transactions. Here, its my 
judgment that the pattern of payments was not a strong enough indicator of fraud and 
their values did not signify a heightened risk of financial harm. So, in this particular 
case, I do not find it unreasonable that Revolut did not view the payments as 
attracting suspicion.
 Finally, once made aware of Mr Ss loss, Revolut ought to attempt to try and recoup 
what was paid where feasible. However, Mr S used his debit card to pay a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange platform before the funds were subsequently transferred on 
to the scammer. Meaning that he wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback 
claim in these circumstances, because the service would be considered provided (i.e. 
the purchase of cryptocurrency). Also, it would appear that the claim was submitted 
outside of the relevant timescales, according to the card schemes criteria. Therefore, 
either way, I do not think Revolut has acted unreasonably in respect of chargeback.
 In conclusion, I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr S being the victim of what was 
clearly a cruel scam. Even so, it would only be fair for me to direct Revolut to refund 
his loss if I thought Revolut was responsible  and Im not persuaded that this was 
the case here. Everything considered, I cannot fairly and reasonably hold Revolut 
liable in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman