DRN-4328162
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that it was unfair for Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) 
to record details of a claim it declined.
What happened
Mrs E contacted Lloyds to make a claim for an escape of water in her home. It investigated 
the claim and declined it. Mrs E later complained as she said the declined claim had been 
recorded as a claim and was affecting the premiums she was being quoted when she tried to 
get cover with other insurers.
When Lloyds replied to the complaint, it said when it validated a claim it advised customers 
that if they proceeded it might affect future renewals or premiums. Mrs E had chosen to 
proceed. It said it couldnt remove it from its database.
So, Mrs E complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
Lloyds has a duty to record the details of the claim, even though it was declined. He said 
Lloyds didnt need to reimburse any additional premium charged by other insurers.
As Mrs E didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The majority of insurers are signed up to the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). 
Insurers record on CUE any incidents they are aware of and whether they lead to a claim. 
This includes where incidents and claims have been investigated and declined. This allows 
insurers to share information and to prevent things like fraud.
When Mrs E made a claim for an escape of water, Lloyds investigated it, including 
considering information from Mrs Es plumber about the damage, and declined it. It recorded 
the claim on CUE. Ive looked at the information Lloyds recorded and this showed the dates 
the claim was made and then closed and that no payment was made for it. Im satisfied that 
it was reasonable for Lloyds to record this information.
Mrs E has complained that recording this information affected the premiums she was offered 
by other insurers. Its up to each insurer how they choose to price a policy. Some insurers 
might take into account previous claims and others dont. Lloyds isnt responsible for how 
other insurers price their policies and doesnt need to cover these costs.
So, having thought about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to 
do anything further in relation to it.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman