DRN-3279016
The complaint
Mr W complains One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) did not offer a fair market value for 
his car when it was written off in an accident.
There are several parties and representatives of One Insurance involved throughout the 
claim but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to One Insurance.
What happened
Mr W had a motor insurance policy with One Insurance.
Following an accident in July 2021 Mr W made a claim on his insurance policy with One 
Insurance and the car was written off as a total loss. One Insurance initially offered Mr W 
£12,590 as settlement. This was then increased to £13,494.50. 
After Mr W complained, One Insurance further increased its offer to £13,771.66. One 
Insurance also apologised for Mr W needing to raise a complaint and paid him £50 for the 
inconvenience caused.
As Mr W was not happy with One Insurance, he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and felt that the offer 
made by One Insurance was fair. 
As Mr W is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I have considered whether One Insurance acted fairly and reasonably in 
reaching its decision as to the level of settlement offered to Mr W following the write-off of his 
car. My role is not to provide an exact valuation but to make a judgment as to whether the 
offer of settlement is fair. 
I firstly looked at the details within Mr Ws motor insurance policy with One Insurance. In this 
case within the policy terms and conditions market value is defined as: 
The cost of replacing your car, if this is possible, with one of a similar make, model and 
specification, taking into account the age, mileage and condition of your car, immediately 
before the loss or damage happened.
The policy further says;  In assessing the market value of your vehicle, we may refer to 
insurance industry recognised guides of vehicle values as well as searching for available 
vehicles being offered for sale to the general public.
Although this service doesnt value vehicles, we do check that the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. We use trade guides 
to do this and theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices and take the cars 
specifications, mileage etc into account. 
This service doesnt consider the question of market value to be an exact science, however 
our general approach is that the valuations given in the main motor trade guides provide the 
most persuasive and consistent evidence. These guides are based on extensive nationwide 
research of likely (but not actual) selling prices.
I looked at the information One Insurance had used when calculating the settlement value 
for Mr Ws car. It obtained bespoke valuations from three of the main trade guides in order to 
obtain an accurate valuation for it. The valuations came in as £14,040, £13,435 and 
£13,840. One Insurance offered Mr W the average of the three valuations £13,771.66 as the 
settlement amount.
I checked the valuations to ensure it was the retail value that had been used and that the 
valuation was completed at the date of the accident. I am confident that One Insurance 
acted within the terms of its policy and that a fair offer was made.
Mr W said that he understood the process that had been undertaken to value his car but he 
did not agree that this was a fair process as car prices have been escalating and he did not 
believe the prices in the guides are keeping pace with the movement in prices. He further 
said he had been unable to find a comparable vehicle to buy.
I do accept that prices of used cars can change on a regular basis. This could be an 
increase or decrease. However the guides used are updated on a regular basis. One 
Insurance obtained the valuations using the date of the accident, so I do not accept Mr Ws 
comment that the prices are not keeping pace.
I looked at the time taken to settle Mr Ws claim. The accident took place on 26 July 2021 
and One Insurance made its settlement offer on 12 August 2021. I think that this is a 
reasonable timescale and was not unduly delayed. 
I do agree that there is a shortage of second-hand cars available in the market at the current 
time, but this is a situation that is outside the control of One Insurance and it cannot be held 
responsible for this.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr W, however, Im not persuaded that 
One Insurance have acted unfairly or unreasonably in settling his claim at £13,771.66. I 
believe that this amount is reflective of the value of the vehicle at the time of the claim.
Therefore, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint and dont require One Insurance to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman