DRN-2163366
The complaint
In summary, Ms W has complained that information she provided about an incident with her 
car to UK Insurance Limited, was logged incorrectly on the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) database.
What happened
In 2016 Ms W was told that her car had been damaged. Based on the information provided, 
she contacted her insurer to report the damage. 
Subsequently when Ms W was able to inspect her car in the daylight, she discovered that no 
damage had been caused to her car, contrary to what she had originally been told by a 
witness. She then passed this information on to her insurer and told it that she wouldnt need 
to make a claim.
In February 2019, Ms Ws husband renewed his own insurance policy. Ms W was a named 
driver on that policy. Her husband was told that an increase in his premium would be 
required as a no-fault incident involving Ms W hadnt been declared.
In May 2019, another vehicle with a different insurer was insured by Mr W and Ms W. Mr W 
was told that a no-fault claim wasnt declared in 2016.
Ms W contacted her insurance company. It agreed to amend the entry on the CUE database 
in respect of the incident she reported in 2016, to say information only. 
Ms W complained to UKI about what had happened. In response it explained that when a 
motor insurance claim was logged, the CUE was automatically updated. It corrected the 
CUE record to show the incident as a non-fault and information only event. It apologised for 
this and issued a cheque for £50 as compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Ms Ws complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. She upheld the complaint and 
explained why she didnt think the level of compensation offered by UKI was enough. It 
disagreed, with the investigators view, so the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that Ms W is annoyed and surprised that a no-fault claim has been recorded 
against her name on the CUE database, even though it later transpired no incident had 
occurred; and that she didnt need to pursue a claim. But I dont think UKI did anything 
wrong by recording on the CUE, that Ms W had registered a claim. Ill explain why. 
UKI had signed up to the CUE. As a result, it had to make a record of any event its made 
aware of, even if this doesnt result in a claim being made. As a result, even though Ms W 
didnt need to pursue a claim on her motor insurance, UKI still needed to record that it had 
been made aware of an event that could have led to a claim being made. So, I dont think it 
did anything wrong by recording on the CUE that Ms W had registered a claim.
But in doing so, UKI needed to make sure that the correct information was recorded on the 
CUE. And it accepts that it didnt in this case, as it didnt record the incident as an 
information only event.
 
The consequences of its mistake were that the no fault claim appears to have affected the 
cost of Ms W getting insurance for another vehicle. And it seems to me more likely than not, 
taking into account the effect of this on other insurance policies where she was a named 
driver; that this would have affected the level of premiums on her own car insurance policy.
 
So, Im satisfied from all the information Ive been provided with, that this would have all 
been very upsetting for Ms W when she found out what had happened.
 
I dont find UKIs arguments in response to the investigators view, to be very persuasive. I 
say this because I think it has underestimated the impact on Ms W of not being aware of 
what it had recorded on the CUE.  And it appears to have had an impact on the cost of other 
insurance and her own premiums; since the recorded incident. 
Although UKI has said that Ms W was aware of the premium renewal amount, this doesnt 
take into account that she wasnt aware until 2019 that the amount of her motor insurance 
premium had all in likelihood been affected by UKIs mistake. So, I can understand that 
Ms W would have been upset when she found all of this out.
It is very difficult for me to assess and make an award for the cost of any increased 
premiums Ms W may have incurred. I say this because I simply dont have enough 
information to assess the amount of any increased premiums Ms W may have had to pay as 
a result of the way the incident was recorded on the CUE. But considering what information I 
do have and for the reasons Ive summarised above, I do think that £150 is a more 
appropriate figure to compensate Ms W for the distress and inconvenience she has suffered 
as a result of UKIs mistake.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is to uphold Ms Ws complaint about 
UKI Insurance Limited. If Ms W accepts my decision, I direct UK Insurance Limited to pay 
her a total of £150 inclusive of any compensation she may have accepted from it already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman