DRN-3940847
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc refused to raise an indemnity claim under the Direct 
Debit Guarantee.
What happened
In 2022 Mr B contacted Santander to raise a direct debit indemnity claim. He asked 
Santander to credit his account with the value of a number of direct debits that had been 
claimed from his account over several years by a car finance company up until Mr B 
cancelled the direct debit instruction in 2021. He said that the payments had been taken 
incorrectly. 
Due to the length of time the direct debits had been active on Mr Bs account and the time 
which had passed since Mr B had cancelled the direct debit instruction, Santander asked 
him to provide further information to show that a mistake had been made by the car finance 
company. As Mr B didnt provide the information Santander declined to process his claim.
Unhappy with the response, Mr B referred his complaint his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into it, but he didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He didnt think 
Santander had acted unfairly in seeking evidence to support Mr Bs claim given the amount 
of direct debit payments Mr B was claiming for and the time the direct debt had been active 
on Mr Bs account. 
Mr B didnt accept this. He said  in summary, that the direct debit guarantee didnt stipulate 
that the claimant had to prove there had been error and that Santander hadnt provided a 
copy of the signed direct debit mandate.  
As Mr B didnt accept the investigators outcome, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator. I can see   
Mr B feels strongly about this matter and will therefore be disappointed with my decision. So, 
Ill explain why.
Mr B has questioned whether this service has seen a copy of the direct debit mandate he 
signed. So, I may be helpful if I explain that direct debits are set up electronically by the 
originator (in this case the car finance company) via a system known as the                     
Automated Direct Debit Instruction Service (AUDDIS). As such, the signed mandate is not 
held by Santander. So, I wouldnt expect it to be able to provide this service or Mr B with a 
copy of it.  
Because direct debits are set up using an automated system, a direct debit guarantee forms 
part of the agreement when a customer agrees to making payments using this method. The 
terms and conditions of the direct debit guarantee say:  
The Direct Debit Guarantee applies to all Direct Debits. It protects you in the rare event that 
there is an error in the payment of your Direct Debit, for instance if a payment is taken on the 
incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected. It cannot be used to address contractual 
disputes between you and the billing organisation.
In this case, its not in dispute that the car finance company claimed the direct debit on 
numerous occasions over a period of years before Mr B cancelled the direct debit. And Mr B 
didnt dispute the direct debit for several months after he cancelled it in 2021. Had Mr Bs 
direct debit been claimed on the wrong date or the wrong amount, I consider it reasonable 
that he would have raised this matter sooner than he did.
The direct debit guarantee enables account holders to receive an immediate refund from 
their bank in certain  but by no means all  circumstances. Most genuine errors in 
payments will usually come to light relatively quickly. Where thats the case, in most 
circumstances, I might expect a bank or building society to refund immediately. 
But where several years have elapsed without the payments being challenged, as is the 
case here, Im persuaded that Santander is not obliged to refund immediately and without 
question. Im satisfied the details of the direct debit guarantee Ive highlighted above set out 
that the entitlement to an immediate refund isnt guaranteed. It requires that an error is made 
in the payment of the direct debit. 
Mr B hasnt provided any evidence that demonstrates that the payments he is now disputing 
were made in error. Mr B has more recently provided information he received following a 
Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) he made to the motor finance company. But Im not 
persuaded this shows that Santander should have refunded him under the direct debit 
guarantee. Mr B says details contained within the DSAR show the motor finance company 
refused to provide him with the documentation Santander asked for, but that isnt something 
I can hold Santander responsible for.  
Furthermore, Ive listened to the call recording between Mr B and Santander when he first 
called to make the claim under the direct debit guarantee. During the call Mr B says he is in 
dispute with the company as it had only provided him with an agreement with an electronic 
signature whereas he recalled signing the document in person. So, Im not persuaded I can 
rule out that Mr Bs claim stems from a contractual dispute between him and the motor 
finance company - something the direct debit guarantee doesnt cover. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I dont believe the fair way to resolve this dispute would be 
for me to simply require Santander to refund Mr B. So, I dont find Santander was wrong to 
decline Mr Bs claim. 
I note Mr B has suggested that Santander has breached data protection rules whilst dealing 
with this complaint. As the investigator has explained, Mr B may wish to contact the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) if he believes Santander has breached any 
relevant data rules or regulations. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman