DRN-3366555
The complaint
Mr H complains that QIC Europe Ltd hasnt agreed to cover in full a claim on his home 
contents or legal expenses insurance or make an appropriate payment for the harm he 
suffered.
Where I refer to QIC, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr H has a home insurance policy underwritten by QIC that includes cover for his contents 
and legal expenses insurance. He made a claim after he had an accident in his home. There 
was damage to some items and he suffered an injury.
Mr H was unhappy with the way claim for the damaged items was handled. He said QIC kept 
asking him for more evidence which he had either already sent or couldnt access very 
easily. This was made worse by the fact his glasses were one of the damaged items which 
left him with difficulties reading documents, and this added to the already distressing 
circumstances. 
QIC said it was entitled to seek evidence supporting the claim but accepted there had been 
some delay and poor service. It paid Mr H £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and agreed to waive the £250 excess that would normally have been 
due from Mr H.
Mr H asked for more compensation for the delay and poor service, together with 
compensation for his personal injury. QIC isnt prepared to offer any more. It says theres no 
cover for the injury as the home insurance policy excludes claims for consequential loss, and 
the legal expenses cover is only for legal actions against a third party. 
When the complaint was brought to this service, our investigator didnt think any further 
payment should be made. He agreed that the claim for personal injury isnt covered by the 
policy, and felt the payments already made by QIC in respect of the claim were reasonable. 
Mr H has requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy includes cover for lost or damaged contents, and the legal expenses section of 
the policy includes cover for personal injury claims. But that cover is only for certain types of 
claim, as follows:
to pursue a civil claim for damages relating to death of or bodily injury to an insured 
person caused by negligence.
In the first instance, its for the policyholder to prove their claim. So for the damaged items, 
Mr H needed to provide evidence that he owned the items in question and that they had 
been damaged. It was reasonable for QIC to seek evidence from him relating to this. 
There was some delay and poor service when QIC dealt with this. But it has acknowledged 
this and taken steps to address it. In addition to paying the claim in full, QIC waived the £250 
excess that would normally have been paid by Mr H and offered compensation of £250. So 
hes had that part of the claim paid in full together with an additional £500. I agree thats fair.
To be covered for the personal injury, Mr H needs to show its covered by the policy. The 
contents insurance is just that  cover for his contents. If this part of the policy provided 
cover for injury to the policyholder it would say so, but it doesnt. In addition, it doesnt 
provide cover for consequential loss. So even if the injury was a consequence of the 
accident, hes only able to claim for the value of the damaged items. 
As set out above, Mr H would be covered under the legal expenses section of cover to take 
legal action against someone who has caused him injury through their negligence. So hes 
entitled to cover if hes pursuing a claim against someone else. He cant sue himself for 
negligence. If hes not pursuing legal action against someone else, he isnt covered under 
this part of the policy either.
I appreciate Mr H suffered an injury and that would have been upsetting for him. But hes 
only entitled to a payment in respect of this if its covered by the policy. And for the reasons 
set out above, theres no cover under the policy for an injury he suffers in these 
circumstances. 
If QIC hasnt already made the payment of £250 offered to Mr H it should do so, but other 
than that, theres no further action to be taken.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman