DRN-1586245
The complaint
Mrs B has brought this complaint to our service on behalf of her late husbands estate. For 
the purposes of this decision Ill refer to both Mrs B and Mr B as appropriate. 
Mrs B is unhappy Zenith Insurance plc declined an insurance claim under Mr Bs motorbike 
insurance policy. Shes upset Zenith said they would pay the claim and then changed their 
minds. And she raised concerns about the time taken to consider the claim. Mrs B also said 
Zenith wouldnt confirm that they would not pursue Mr Bs estate for third party claims. 
The claim was dealt with by Zeniths agent. For the purposes of this decision I will refer to 
Zenith when discussing the handling of the claim. 
What happened
Mr Bs motorbike insurance cover started on 19 February 2018. 
In early March 2018 Mr B experienced several symptoms severe enough to prompt medical 
investigation.   
In April 2018 a consultant told Mr B to contact the DVLA and told Mr B not to drive. The 
consultant confirmed the same to Mr Bs GP in a letter. 
Sadly, on 23 September 2018 Mr B was involved in a road traffic accident, which led to him 
losing his life. 
Zenith investigated the claim on Mr Bs policy, and on 30 August 2019 in the morning they let 
Mrs B know the claim of around £9,750 would be paid to Mr Bs estate. However, in the 
afternoon on the same day Zenith called Mrs B to explain the earlier call had been an error 
and in fact Zenith were declining the claim. To recognise the upset this confusion caused 
Mrs B, Zenith paid her £100. Mrs B accepted the £100, but as she was still unhappy with the 
decision to decline the claim, she referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said Mr B had an obligation to let Zenith 
know about any changes, and this would have included the instructions from the consultant 
about not driving and contacting the DVLA. The investigator said if Zenith had been 
informed, then the policy would have been cancelled before the accident, so it was fair for 
Zenith to decline the claim. The investigator also didnt think the time taken to review the 
claim had been unreasonable in the circumstances. And lastly, they said it wasnt possible to 
consider any distress or inconvenience that may have affected Mrs B directly as this was a 
complaint being brought by Mr Bs estate. The investigator explained even though Zenith 
had made an error when saying they would pay the claim, this error hadnt inconvenienced 
the estate. 
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators view and requested the case be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. Mrs B didnt offer any new evidence at that time.
What Ive decided  and why
Before I set out my findings I would like to express my sincere condolences to Mrs B for her 
loss and the clearly difficult circumstances that have brought about this complaint. I would 
also like to reassure Mrs B that while Ive only provided a brief description of events, I have 
carefully reviewed all the submissions from both parties in my considerations. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am broadly in agreement with the conclusions reached by our investigator. 
That is, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr Bs contract of insurance with Zenith included terms highlighting the importance of Mr Bs 
obligations to provide accurate information to Zenith and to let them know about any 
changes to information previously given. The policy document explains that failure to advise 
us of a changemay mean that your policy is invalid and that it does not operate in the 
event of a claim.  
At the time of taking out the insurance it doesnt appear Mr B was experiencing the 
symptoms that led to the need for medical investigation. But by April 2018, it is clear Mr Bs 
consultant felt things were serious enough that Mr B should stop driving and contact the 
DVLA. The available medical notes and records support that Mr B was aware of this. 
I think the consultants instructions were significant enough to be considered a change in 
Mr Bs circumstances and therefore something Mr B should have let Zenith know about. 
Theres also no available evidence that Mr B contacted the DVLA. 
Ive reviewed the available evidence from Zenith together with the available submissions 
from other parties. And Im satisfied that had Zenith known of the changes to Mr Bs 
circumstances, Zenith would have withdrawn the insurance cover  as they would be entitled 
to do. 
Taking everything into account, I think Zenith fairly declined the claim.
 
Im very mindful that Mrs Bs expectations were raised on 30 August 2019 when she was 
told the claim would be paid. And Zenith accepts this was an error. However, I also note this 
error was quickly corrected on the same day. 
I appreciate the second of these two phone calls would have been particularly upsetting for 
Mrs B and I cant imagine how this may have made her feel. I have to say it was unfortunate 
Zenith did this. But it may help if I explain to Mrs B that simply because an error like this is 
made, it doesnt automatically follow that the claim should be paid. And as our investigator 
said, because this complaint is being brought by Mr Bs estate, Im unable to make any 
award for the upset and trouble this has caused Mrs B directly. So Im afraid I cant do 
anything here.
Given Zenith should handle claims promptly, Ive considered the time they took to decide the 
claim. While it took close to a year, Im mindful this claim wasnt straightforward. I can see 
Zenith communicated with and gathered information from various parties associated with 
what had happened. This took time and not all things were in Zeniths control. And I do note there were updates to Mrs B. Overall, I therefore dont think the time taken by Zenith to 
consider the claim was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs B initially raised concerns with us that Zenith would not commit in writing that they 
wouldnt pursue Mr Bs estate for third party claims. I can understand how this would be a 
worry to Mrs B, particularly with several third parties involved and there being significant 
costs far in excess of what I understand to be the value of Mr Bs estate. Im pleased to see 
Zenith has since confirmed in writing that they will not be pursuing Mr Bs estate in this 
regard. So I wont comment on this any further.
My final decision
I recognise none of this has been easy for Mrs B, and Im sorry this wont be the answer she 
was hoping for. However, having carefully reviewed everything, for the reasons above, my 
final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B, on behalf of 
the estate of Mr B, to accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman