DRN-3148999
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Mortgages plc advised them to take an interest-only mortgage 
in 2008. They say it didnt warn them about the risks of having a mortgage on that basis, or 
assess how they would repay the capital at the end of the term. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M applied for a re-mortgage through a broker in 2005. They wanted to 
consolidate some debts and pay for home improvements. The broker advised them to take a 
mortgage with Mortgages plc, payable on a capital and interest repayment basis, over a term 
of 15 years. Mr and Mrs M went ahead with the recommendation.
In 2008, the mortgage was changed so it was paid on an interest-only basis. It has remained 
on that basis ever since. The mortgage was transferred to another lender in 2019, and the 
term ended in 2020. 
In 2020, Mr and Mrs M complained. They had a mortgage which had come to the end of its 
term and which they couldnt repay. They said Mortgages plc should have warned them 
about this, and that they have paid more interest than they would have done had they kept 
the mortgage on a capital and interest repayment basis.
Mortgages plc said it had converted Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage to interest-only in 2008 at Mr 
and Mrs Ms request, for forbearance reasons. It hadnt advised them to do this; it was Mr 
and Mrs Ms decision. It also said it had written to Mr and Mrs M numerous times over the 
years to remind them that they would need to make arrangements to repay the capital 
balance of the mortgage at the end of the term.
After Mr and Mrs M got in touch with us, Mortgages plc said it consented to our considering 
the complaint, even though more than six years had passed since the change Mr and Mrs M 
were complaining about was made. 
Our investigator went on to look into what had happened. He didnt think Mortgages plc had 
done anything wrong. He concluded that it hadnt advised Mr and Mrs M to change their 
mortgage to interest-only, and it had given them enough information to explain how an 
interest-only mortgage worked.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept that conclusion. Their representative said that they hadnt asked 
for an interest-only mortgage; it was Mortgages plc which had suggested it to them when Mr 
M was ill and they were struggling financially. 
They said Mortgages plc hadnt checked they would be able to repay the mortgage at term 
end, hadnt given them the right support and advice, and hadnt explained the long-term 
risks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs M were struggling financially in 2008, when their 
mortgage was changed so it was paid on an interest-only basis. Mr and Mrs M have said 
they asked Mortgages plc about a range of options, including changing the mortgage 
payment date and switching to interest-only. So I think its clear that they were looking for 
ways to make their mortgage payments more manageable. 
The switch to interest-only achieved that objective: Mr and Mrs M had been paying just over 
£900 a month on a capital and interest basis. Following the switch, they were paying almost 
£400 less each month  almost halving their previous monthly payment. It meant Mr and Mrs 
M could afford the mortgage at a time when they had been finding things difficult. So, at the 
time, I dont think changing to interest-only was necessarily the wrong thing to have done  
irrespective of whether it was Mr and Mrs M who requested it or whether Mortgages plc 
suggested it.
Ive seen copies of the letters Mortgages plc sent to Mr and Mrs M in April 2008, firstly 
enclosing an illustration so they could see what the monthly interest-only payments would be 
and how much it would cost to switch, and then later to confirm the change had been made. 
The second letter went on to say:
Interest Only
Please note once you convert your account to repay on an interest only basis the balance 
outstanding will remain the same and you will still owe this amount at the end of the 
mortgage term. You will need to make separate arrangements to repay this.
I think Mortgages plc did enough to explain how the mortgage would work on an interest-
only basis and what that would mean at the end of the term. It also reminded Mr and Mrs M 
about this in their annual statements and wrote to them separately each year from 2014 
onwards, reminding them about the need to repay the capital at the end of the term in 2020.
Mortgages plc has also provided a copy of a letter Mr and Mrs M sent to it in May 2014, in 
response to its enquiries about the eventual repayment of the mortgage. That said they 
intended to use various pension lump sums to repay the mortgage, and they also planned to 
downsize on retirement. 
So it appears that Mr and Mrs M understood when they would need to repay the mortgage 
and they had a plan for how they would do so. I understand that things have changed since, 
but Mortgages plc didnt have to make detailed checks on Mr and Mrs Ms repayment 
strategy when it made the change to their mortgage in 2008. In all the circumstances, I cant 
fairly uphold this complaint. 
Finally, I was very sorry to read that Mrs M is so unwell, and I recognise that Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances are now extremely difficult. Mortgages plc is no longer Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage lender, so I cant give any directions here about what should happen next, but I 
would encourage Mr and Mrs M  or a representative on their behalf  to talk through their 
situation with their current lender to see whether it can do anything to help. They may also 
consider taking independent advice; our investigator can provide details of free debt advice 
organisations should they need them. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman