DRN-1535722
 
The complaint
Mr E complains about how Santander UK Plc dealt with an international payment.
What happened
Mr E says he asked Santander to send just over £82,000 to an account in Congo for a 
business opportunity. He says he first spoke to Santander about this on 1 or 2 October 2019 
and received a call from it on 7 October 2019 telling him the payment would reach the 
beneficiary account in four days. Mr E says the beneficiary didn't receive the money and on 
18 October 2019 asked Santander to trace the money. He says he was then told the 
business opportunity couldn't proceed due to the delay and asked Santander to recall his 
money. Mr E says just over £76,000 was returned, and he lost about £5,400 as well as the 
business opportunity. He says in summary  Santander was responsible for what took place 
and the beneficiary told him he hadn't received the money.
Santander doesn't accept making a mistake and says it released the payment and applied a 
trace on it when Mr E asked it to. It says the payment passed through an intermediary bank 
before being sent to the beneficiary bank and it isn't responsible for the actions of either, 
which is made clear in the account terms and conditions. Santander says it acted in line with 
Mr E's instructions by placing a trace on the money and later recalling it. It says it asked the 
banks involved if the beneficiary account was credited with the money and if so when but 
didn't receive a full response. It also says it was told by the beneficiary bank that it was 
waiting for permission to recall the money. Santander says it's not responsible for exchange 
rate losses that Mr E suffered.
Mr E had brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr E was told on 2 October 2019 that the payment would be subject to further 
checks and would pass through an intermediary bank before reaching the beneficiary bank. 
The investigator thought Santander released the money on 7 October 2019 which was two 
working days after the first contact and that Mr E was told by the beneficiary on 11 October 
2019 that he hadn't received the money. And Mr E asked Santander some seven days later 
to trace the money. The investigator thought Santander had provided evidence that the 
beneficiary bank had asked for permission to recall the money but was waiting for the 
beneficiary to authorise the return. The investigator concluded that Santander was not 
responsible for what took place and for any losses caused by the actions of others which 
was in line with the account terms and conditions.
Mr E doesn't accept that view and says he didn't receive Santander's final response letters 
and says the investigator hasn't conducted a full investigation into what took place or 
examined the electronic footprints of the money transfer. He questions Santander's time 
scales and says no-one can tell him if and when the beneficiary received his money or what 
has taken place.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise Mr E will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate that he will still have unanswered questions 
about the whereabouts of his money in October and November 2019. 
I have looked at Mr E's account terms and conditions which I think he would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. I can see those terms and conditions make clear that 
Santander is not responsible for the actions of other banks in these sorts of international 
payments or transactions or that it is liable for any losses suffered as a result. I can see here 
that Santander carried out Mr E's instructions and sent the money to the beneficiary. And I 
think at that point it was no longer responsible for what happened or that it had any control 
over the other banks involved in the process. So I'm satisfied that Santander didn't make a 
mistake or act unfairly and isn't responsible for the loss Mr E suffered or the lost business 
opportunity.
I don't think Santander delayed the payment, as Mr E spoke to it on 2 October and it then 
processed the payment two working days later after speaking to him. I can see that during 
the call of 7 October 2019 Santander fairly explained the process of an international 
payment to Mr E and told him his money would pass through an intermediary bank. I'm also 
satisfied that Santander followed Mr E's instructions in tracing the money and later making 
attempts to recall it. I'm satisfied that Santander asked the banks involved if and when the 
beneficiary received the money but didn't receive a full answer to that question. I can't fairly 
hold Santander responsible for the other banks actions and I don't think Santander could 
reasonably check itself if the beneficiary ever received the money but could only rely on 
information from the other banks.
I have looked at Santander's records about the payment. I can see evidence that it was told 
by the other banks involved that, before the money could be returned to Mr E's account,  
permission was needed by the beneficiary. So I think it likely that the beneficiary did receive 
the money and the delay in returning the money was caused by the beneficiary. I appreciate 
that Mr E says the beneficiary says he didn't receive the money. But I have to consider what 
I think is more likely to have happened. And for the reasons I have explained I think it more 
likely the money was at some point received by the beneficiary. I also think that is something 
Mr E will have to take up with that person directly.
I appreciate that Mr E says he didn't receive Santander's response letters to his complaint, 
and he didn't receive appropriate service from Santander. But I'm satisfied that the response 
letters were sent to Mr E and I can't fairly hold Santander responsible for the safe delivery of 
mail. I also think that Santander followed Mr E's instructions and I have explained why I don't 
think it was responsible for what took place.
Overall as I don't think Santander made a mistake or acted unfairly I can't order it to pay any 
compensation of refund the exchange rate loss Mr E suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman