DRN-3553412
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) used funds received into an old 
account to repay a credit card debt. Mr S also complains that RBS failed to respond to a 
Section 78 request. 
What happened
Mr S had a credit card with RBS but fell into arrears following ill health. The last payment 
RBS received was February 2019. Since that time, RBS has referred the credit card debt to 
four debt collection agencies but no arrangements to make payments were made. 
In June 2021 RBS wrote to Mr S after he received a substantial deposit into his current 
account. RBS letter said it intended to use funds from Mr S current account to clear his 
credit card balance. A month later, RBS used funds from Mr S current account to clear the 
outstanding balance of his credit card. 
Mr S complained and RBS sent him a final response on 10 August 2021. Mr S also asked 
RBS to send him documents as a Section 78 request. RBS said it had exercised the Right of 
Set Off as noted in the banking regulations and account terms and conditions. RBS didnt 
agree it had acted unfairly by using the funds to repay Mr S outstanding credit card balance. 
RBS said Mr S could submit requests for sums to be refunded to cover priority bills. 
Mr S has told us he didnt receive a response to his Section 78 request. But RBS says it 
responded on 8 September 2021 and sent Mr S a copy of his credit agreement. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. RBS 
provided its case file and also offered Mr S £100 as a gesture of goodwill to settle his 
complaint. Mr S didnt accept. An investigator looked at Mr S complaint but thought RBS 
had dealt with it fairly. Mr S asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S was surprised to find funds paid into his current account had been used to 
repay his credit card debt. Ive considered whether RBS acted unfairly by using its Right of 
Set Off to clear the credit card balance. 
When Mr S opened the credit card he accepted a credit agreement along with terms and 
conditions. The credit agreement contained a provision (already quoted in the investigators 
view) that said RBS could use money Mr S may have in other accounts he holds with the 
bank to repay the outstanding balance. In addition, industry regulations also allow RBS to 
apply its Right of Set off to cover an outstanding debt. 
Mr S has explained he received a sizeable deposit as part of a settlement for a private 
matter and was shocked to see his funds being used to repay the credit card. Mr S has told 
us he didnt receive notice of RBS intention so wasnt aware that his account would be 
debited in July 2021. 
RBS view is that Mr S stopped making credit card payments in 2019. RBS has also 
explained that four separate debt collection agencies had been unable to agree a payment 
arrangement with Mr S. Whilst the credit card was closed, the debt remained. RBS has told 
us it used its Right of Set Off appropriately and in line with the account terms. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I havent been persuaded that RBS acted unfairly by using 
funds from his current account to repay his credit card. I think its fair to say RBS acted in 
line with the credit agreement and terms. Regulations also allow RBS to use its Right of 
Offset in this scenario. I note RBS final response said Mr S could submit details of any 
priority bills for consideration with the potential for money to be returned to cover them. And I 
havent seen anything that shows Mr S made requests of that nature or that, if he did, RBS 
declined them. I also think its fair to say that the outstanding balance was owed to RBS by 
Mr S, so Im satisfied its acted fairly by repaying it. 
As I havent found that RBS unfairly exercised its right of set off, Im not telling it to refund 
the money it used to repay Mr S credit card balance. 
Mr S also complains that RBS failed to comply with a Section 78 request to send a copy of 
his credit agreement. RBS sent a copy of its letter to Mr S in September 2021. RBS letter 
advised that a Section 78 request doesnt apply once a credit agreement has ended. But the 
version Ive seen includes copies of Mr S credit agreement along with the associated terms. 
The information available shows RBS sent Mr S his credit agreement and associated terms 
in September 2021. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S but as I havent been persuaded that RBS treated him 
unfairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. RBS offered Mr S £100 to settle his complaint. I 
leave it to Mr S to decide whether to accept RBS offer.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 26 
October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman