DRN-2369788
The complaint 
Mr A says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to him irresponsibly. He says that 
he needed to re-borrow to make the loan repayments and he fell behind with other bills. He 
says he is still struggling financially because of the lending. 
What happened
This complaint is about six loans Mr Lender provided to Mr A between November 2015 and 
November 2016.
loan date taken amounthighest 
repaymentinstalments date repaid
1 13/11/2015 £150 £124.20 2 26/11/2015
2 26/11/2015 £300 £167.20 3 21/12/2015
3 21/12/2015 £400 £191.46 6 25/01/2016
4 25/01/2016 £750 £329.75 6 04/02/2016
5 03/04/2016 £1,500 £323.00 12 25/11/2016
6 25/11/2016 £1,500 £361.25 12 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought Mr Lender was wrong to have 
approved loans 4 to 6. 
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that Mr A used some of the loan 
proceeds for a holiday, so this showed it was likely he was not in financial difficulty. And 
there was a break in the lending between loans 4 and 5 which showed he was not 
dependent on short term lending. It says its checks showed the loans were affordable. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mr A didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision 
about them. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr A had with Mr Lender. So 
they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
By loan 4 Mr A had been borrowing from Mr Lender for just over two months. But loan one 
was for £150 and loan 4 was for £750. The term of the loans had increased from two 
monthly repayments to six, presumably to lower the repayments. I think this is evidence that 
Mr A was in financial difficulty on its own. 
Mr Lender has said that the point of sale evidence showed that Mr A could afford the 
repayments for loan 4. And this would be the case for the coming six months. 
But the highest repayment for loan 4 was around £330 which is a significant proportion of 
Mr As total monthly declared income of £1,400 and his disposable income of £840. And 
these figures dont seem quite right. For example, its not clear to me how it was reasonable 
to think Mr A would get by spending only £100 on food and travel each month. This seems 
very low. 
But leaving this aside Mr A had effectively been taking and repaying his loans monthly. And 
so it was a reasonable assumption that this would continue. Which would make the loan 
repayments unaffordable if it was assumed that he would repay the loan in full. I think 
Mr Lender should have looked at the loans 4 and 5 on this basis. I doesnt necessarily follow that because loan 4 was approved for holiday that it was 
affordable. But, in any event, the point of sale information said the loan was for a deposit for 
a holiday. So its also unclear how Mr A would repay the remainder (assuming this is 
correct), whilst also making the loan repayments, without further borrowing. 
Overall, I think this sharp increase in borrowing over a short period of time, taken into 
consideration alongside Mr As declared income and expenditure is evidence that he was in 
financial difficulty. And its likely this was in part due to increasing loan repayments he was 
making over this period. So I dont think Mr Lender should have approved loans 4 and 5
And going forward this pattern of lending didnt materially change. Loans 5 was for much 
larger amount than what had gone before. So I dont think the break in lending between 
loans 4 and 5 changes my findings above. 
And I think that by loan 6 Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided this loan. 
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr A was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr A had taken out six loans within 12 months. Mr Lender ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not he was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole making his previous loan repayments was leaving in his finances and that Mr 
As indebtedness was unsustainable.
Mr As first loan was for £150 and loan 6 was for £1,500. This is a very large increase 
and points to Mr A having an ongoing and increasing need for this type of credit. 
Mr A wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender. As can be 
seen his indebtedness increased. Mr A had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Mr Lender over an extended period.
I think that Mr A lost out because Mr Lender continued to provided loan 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr As indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr A borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr As ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 6 and Mr Lender should put things 
right.
Putting things right
Mr Lender shouldnt have given Mr A loans 4 to 6.
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debts Mr Lender should buy these back if it is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Mr Lender is not able to buy the debts back then 
Mr Lender should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr A towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.B) Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr A 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr A originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr A as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr A having made 
overpayments then Mr Lender should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr A. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr A. Mr Lender 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mr Lender has already written-
off.
E) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in 
relation to loans 4 and 5. The overall pattern of Mr As borrowing by loan 6 means any 
information recorded about it is adverse, so it should remove this loan entirely from Mr As 
credit file. Mr Lender does not have to remove loan 6 from Mr As credit file until it has been 
repaid, but Mr Lender should still remove any adverse information recorded about this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax Mr Lender has deducted, if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr As complaint.
PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman