DRN-4000900
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc withdrew the new spending facility from his credit 
card. 
What happened
In May 2020 BOS reviewed Mr Ms account and noted it was in a persistent debt position as 
hed paid more in interest and charges than reductions in the outstanding balance in the 
previous 18 months. BOS contacted Mr M and recommended he increase his payments 
above the minimum required each month. 
In February 2021 BOS contacted Mr M and said his account remained in persistent debt and 
gave information about making increased payments to reduce the outstanding balance. BOS 
contacted Mr M again in September 2021. The November 2021 statement included a 
Recommended Payment Amount (RPA) that BOS recommended Mr M make in addition to 
his contractual minimum payment. 
Mr Ms payments didnt increase and BOS took the decision to block his account. In January 
2022 Mr M spoke with BOS and discussed the persistent debt position of his credit card. Mr 
M went on to make a substantial payment to reduce the outstanding balance and BOS 
reinstated his credit card. 
In March and April 2022 BOS credit card statements included a minimum payment figure of 
£5 and an RPA figure of £5.06 and £5.07. Mr M made the minimum payments of £5 but the 
RPA wasnt made. As a result, BOS withdrew the ability to use the credit card for further 
purchases or payments. 
Mr M complained and BOS sent him a final response. BOS said it had identified Mr Ms 
account as being in persistent debt and taken steps to address the situation with him. BOS 
said new spending was initially withdrawn in January 2022 when Mr M failed to make a 
payment in line with the PRA figure noted on his statement. But the spending facility was 
reinstated when Mr M agreed to reduce the outstanding balance. BOS advised the new 
spending facility had been withdrawn again when later payments didnt include the PRA 
element and declined to reinstate it. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ms complaint. They thought BOS had dealt with 
Mr Ms case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr M asked to appeal so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Ms credit card statements and Im satisfied BOS correctly identified his 
account as being in a persistent debt position when it reviewed it over the course of 2020 
and 2021. New legislation came into effect which means lenders are required to contact 
customers whove been making the minimum payments for a long period to discuss 
affordable ways of bringing the balance down. Im satisfied BOS was reasonably contacting 
Mr M about the position of his credit card balance. 
When no contact was received and Mr M didnt increase his payment to include the RPA, 
BOS took the step of restricting new spending. I understand Mr M wanted to retain use of the 
card. But I havent been persuaded BOS acted unfairly. And when Mr M contacted BOS in 
January 2022 and agreed to make payments to reduce the outstanding balance it agreed to 
reinstate the full use of his credit card. When Mr Ms payments were made, the credit card 
was reinstated. Thats in line with what Id expect from BOS. 
Ive listened to Mr Ms call with BOS in January 2022. During the call, the agent advised that 
if the RPA wasnt met on future occasions it would likely lead to a permanent withdrawal of 
the spending facility. 
Mr Ms pointed out the RPA given by BOS for April 2022 was £5.06 and the RPA for April 
2022 was £5.07. Mr M made two payments of £5 but was 6p and 7p short in terms of the 
RPA. I can understand why Mr M feels the decision to suspend his spending facility was 
harsh when considering the amounts hed missed. And taken in isolation, Id agree. But 
here, BOS had given Mr M lots of information about persistent debt and why it was 
requesting more than the contractual minimum payment. And ion January 2022 BOS was 
clear in explaining that if payments werent made in line with the RPA again in the future, the 
spending facility would likely be withdrawn. Ultimately, BOS has done what it said it would in 
so Im unable to agree its acted unfairly, even taking the level of shortfall into account. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr M but as Im satisfied BOS dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to reinstate the spending facility on his credit card or take any other action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman