DRN-3419692
The complaint
Ms G and Mr G complain Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) withdrew their 
mortgage offer which forced them into taking out a mortgage elsewhere and incurring early 
repayment charges as a result. 
What happened
Ms G and Mr G held a mortgage with Halifax and says they were looking to move home, so 
in May 2021 they contacted Halifax to establish how much they could borrow. Ms G and Mr 
G says Halifax informed them at this time they could obtain a mortgage with a 10% deposit, 
and with that in mind found a property with the higher budget available to them. Ms G and Mr 
G says when they formally applied for the mortgage, Halifax changed the mortgage offer 
saying a 15 % deposit was now required. 
Ms G and Mr G says as a result of this they were forced to look elsewhere and found 
another mortgage provider who could help them, but on redemption of their mortgage with 
Halifax it charged an early repayment charge (ERC) of £6,646.33. Ms G and Mr G dont feel 
it was reasonable to charge this fee given it was Halifaxs mistake in the first instance, when 
it told them they could obtain a mortgage with only a 10% deposit, leaving them no option 
but to look elsewhere. 
Ms G and Mr G also feel Halifax didnt handle their complaint promptly enough and should 
have returned telephone calls sooner. Ms G and Mr G says this has been a very stressful 
time for them and Halifaxs offer of compensation of £500 doesnt go far enough and wants it 
to refund the ERC.
Halifax says it accepts Ms G and Mr G shouldnt have been told initially they could obtain a 
mortgage with a 10% deposit and have apologised for that and paid £500 by way of 
compensation. Halifax says although it did make a mistake this was an offer in principle and 
not a guarantee of funding, as a formal application is always required before a mortgage 
agreement is provided. 
Halifax says the ERC was charged correctly and as detailed in the original mortgage offer 
Ms G and Mr G had signed. Halifax says Ms Gs and Mr Gs complaint was dealt with in the 
correct timescales and it feels the compensation paid of £500 is fair.
Ms G and Mr G werent happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt while Halifax had made an error initially, this was an agreement in principle 
and was always going to be subject to a full mortgage application. The investigator says it 
wasnt for this service to penalise Halifax for that mistake and the £500 offered was 
reasonable here. The investigator says the ERC Halifax charged was detailed in the 
mortgage agreement signed by Ms G and Mr G and was therefore taken correctly. 
Ms G and Mr G didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Ms G and Mr G to have been informed 
they were not now eligible for a mortgage with a 10% deposit, having been previously told 
they would. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Halifax acted reasonably when it 
refused to provide the mortgage it had previously agreed in principle with Ms G and Mr G, 
and whether it was fair for it to then charge the ERC when Ms G and Mr G went elsewhere 
for their mortgage needs. 
Ms Gs and Mr Gs complaint centres around Halifax charging a sizeable ERC when they 
changed mortgage providers to buy their new home  that decision they say was forced 
upon them when Halifax reversed its original agreement to provide a mortgage requiring only 
a 10% deposit the previous month. Ms G and Mr G also feel Halifax took longer than 
necessary to deal with their complaint, in particular not returning their telephone calls. 
I should say its not the role of this service to scrutinise Halifaxs complaints process or to tell 
Halifax how it should deal with complaints more widely  my role is to look at whats fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of a complaint. 
The first thing to say here is Halifax have accepted it made a mistake, when in early May 
2021 it had agreed in principle to provide a mortgage to Ms G and Mr G, that required them 
to only provide a deposit on the purchase property they were considering of 10%. Put more 
simply it had agreed in principle a 90% loan to value (LTV) mortgage request. 
So here, theres no disputing what Ms G and Mr G have said, but what is important here is, 
Ms G and Mr G were actually given an agreement in principle and not a formal mortgage 
agreement. That can only be provided and relied upon, following a full mortgage application 
being submitted and considered by Halifaxs underwriters. As the investigator has pointed 
out the Mortgage Promise provided to Ms G and Mr G states clearly :
Provided you meet the conditions of this Mortgage Promise, a full mortgage offer can be 
made if you make a full mortgage application. 
You should not enter into a binding legal commitment to buy a property until you have 
received, and are happy with, the full mortgage offer.
While I do have sympathy with Ms Gs and Mr Gs situation, its fair to say no formal approval 
had been provided or full mortgage application had been processed in May 2021, and it was 
only when they later looked to formally apply for the mortgage, they were told by Halifax it 
could only provide an 85% LTV mortgage. Halifax have provided this service with the details 
of how it reached that decision, based on its lending criteria at the time, and its not for me to 
tell Halifax it must change its criteria here. 
So while I can see it would have been disappointing for Ms G and Mr G to learn the original 
mortgage agreement in principle was incorrectly provided to them, it was never a formal 
approval of funding and so I cant say Ms G and Mr G should have relied upon it. Nor can I 
say that Halifax are responsible for Ms G and Mr G proceeding with the house purchase and 
obtaining a mortgage elsewhere or any extra costs that may have incurred, after all that was 
a decision Ms G and Mr G chose to make. It follows, as far as the ERC is concerned while Ms G and Mr G feel this should be refunded, 
it is clear in the original mortgage agreement they signed under section 8, that such fees are 
payable should the mortgage be fully or partially repaid before the expiry of the fixed interest 
rate product.  
Like the investigator here, its only right that Halifax apologise and provide some redress for 
the misinformation about the agreement in principle it provided in May 2021. That said, its 
not the role of this service to penalise businesses when mistakes are made, but to see that 
reasonable redress and an apology is given in those circumstances, and Im satisfied that 
happened here.
While Ms G and Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Halifax.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman