DRN-2569588
The complaint
Mr & Mrs M complain about the service received from Lloyds Bank PLC when they returned 
a cheque unpaid.
What happened
Mr & Mrs M wrote a cheque from their Lloyds account, for the purpose of paying a lump sum 
off their mortgage before the start of a new mortgage product. 
Lloyds returned the cheque unpaid, they say it appears to the system that the cheque has 
been altered because Mr & Mrs Ms initials have been added above the pay line. 
Mr & Mrs M say it was it clear the cheque hadnt been altered. Theyre also unhappy that 
Lloyds didnt call or email them, and they only received notice of the unpaid cheque by letter, 
which was sent in second class post. 
Mr & Mrs M complained to Lloyds about the service theyd received, and that theyd been 
charged fees and extra interest on their new mortgage because of the unpaid cheque. 
Lloyds responded to Mr & Mrs Ms complaint to say they didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong, but they paid Mr & Mrs M £49 to cover the fees and additional interest. 
Unhappy with this, Mr & Mrs M brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into things for Mr & Mrs M. They didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly in returning the 
cheque, and they didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything more. 
Mr & Mrs M say Lloyds should have contacted them by telephone or email to discuss the 
cheque, and they shouldnt have sent the letter by second class post. They believe that the 
communication was outdated and taking phone numbers and email addresses that arent 
used as a first point of contact, made the process slow and inconvenient. As an agreement 
cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the cheque that was returned unpaid, and Mr & Mrs Ms initials are above 
the line of pay section. Lloyds say their system detects this as an alteration, as its possible 
that the initials couldve been entered at a later date.
I appreciate Mr & Mrs Ms frustration at having the cheque returned unpaid, particularly as 
the initials match the names on their account. But I find Lloyds havent acted unreasonably in 
stopping the cheque where it had legitimate security concerns, as appears to have been the 
case here. 
Mr & Mrs M are unhappy that Lloyds didnt call them to talk about their concerns with the 
cheque, and that the letter they sent was sent in second class post. Theyve said they want 
to prevent other customers having the same experience. 
Ive considered Lloyds explanation. They say they dont contact customers by phone for 
cheques unpaid as a result of possible alterations for security reasons. They say that any 
alteration to a cheque needs to be initialled by the drawer, and as that cant be done via the 
telephone, they dont use this method of communication. They say its their standard 
procedure to send letters by second class post. I do understand Mr & Mrs Ms frustration 
with the process, but Im satisfied overall that this is reasonable. 
Mr & Mrs M were charged £49 in fees and interest on their mortgage because of the unpaid 
cheque. Lloyds have paid Mr & Mrs M £49 to cover this cost.
I understand Mr & Mrs M are upset that Lloyds used other methods of communication on this 
occasion. But I find that it wasnt unreasonable for Lloyds to return the unpaid cheque 
through the post, as it couldnt have been rectified in a phone call. 
Mr & Mrs M did experience a short delay, but I find the refund of their financial losses is 
enough to rectify this, so I dont require Lloyds to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC dont need to do anything more to settle this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman