DRN-2836062
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim he made for storm damage 
under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr D said a recent storm caused damage to his roof and this led to an 
ingress of water into his home. Mr D made a claim to his insurer, AXA. 
AXA instructed a loss adjuster (LA) to visit Mr Ds property and carry out an inspection. The 
LA reported to AXA that the damage wasnt caused by a storm, but was due to wear and 
tear. It accepted a claim for the internal damage under the accidental damage section of the 
policy, but said the excess was more than the estimated costs of the internal repairs. 
Mr D complained to AXA. He wanted it to meet his claim to have the roof replaced. But AXA 
said its decision not to meet the claim for storm damage to the roof was correct as it 
excluded cover for damage caused by wear and tear. 
Mr D asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought AXA had reached its 
decision reasonably. 
Mr D provided a copy of a roofers report with photos from September 2020 and a report 
from a waterproofing specialist company. 
The investigator passed the reports to AXA. And he made a number of attempts to contact 
the waterproofing company, but didnt receive a reply. 
AXA maintained that its decision was correct. And having considered its reasons, our 
investigator didnt think there was enough to show AXAs decision was unreasonable. 
Mr D didnt agree. In summary he says:
The LA has changed his findings to challenge the information hes provided.
The view is inconsistent with the information provided.
We have ignored the evidence provided by Mr Ds roofer and the waterproofing 
company. 
The waterproofing company told Mr D it wasnt contacted by this service.
AXA hasnt confirmed the qualifications of the LA. Nor has it confirmed if it has 
ever accepted a claim for a damaged roof for a property over 100 years old.
So as Mr D didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We ask three questions when considering storm damage claims to help decide whether an 
insurer has acted in a fair and reasonable way. These are: 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is  
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then we think the claim is likely to succeed. But, if 
the answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to 
be covered.
AXA explains that it will meet a claim for storm damage which it defines as a period of 
violent weather and the relevant sections in this case being:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph) which are the equivalent to 
Storm Force 10 on the Beaufort Scale. Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm 
per hour.
Having reviewed weather reports from the time of the incident, I think there was sufficient 
rainfall to meet AXAs definition of storm conditions. 
Ive looked at the key comments from the LA, Mr Ds roofer and the waterproofing specialist. 
Ive also considered Mr Ds comments to support his view that his claim for storm damage 
should be met by AXA. 
Mr Ds roofer visited the property on 2 September 2020, shortly after the incident around 27 
August 2020. He said that slates had slipped as a result of the storm. He found the roof to be 
in generally good condition and well maintained, the roof having had previous repairs for 
slipped tiles. (Mr D confirmed this was by the roofers predecessor).
The roofer concluded that to avoid further damage, Mr Ds roof would require complete 
replacement and said this would cost £23,600 including VAT. 
Photos provided by the roofer are from the inside of the property in the loft. They show the 
area where water has come through. They also show that foam has been added to areas 
under previous repairs. 
The LAs report said that the damage to Mr Ds roof was caused by wear and tear. Mr D had 
bought the house next door and knocked it through to have one property. Photos provided 
by the LA show where the roofs join and it is raised in this area. And they show that tabs 
have been previously added to several tiles to keep in place. Mr D said these were fitted as 
a precautionary measure around 10 years before due to a slipped tile. He says the ridge in 
the roof isnt the cause of the tiles slipping. 
However, the LA disagreed. He provided a photo from an external website showing the roof 
of Mr Ds property from 2016 and says this shows the rise in the roof has been apparent for 
some time. He said the rise is due to the adjoining joists sagging. And this caused the slates 
to spread.
The LA said there was no issue with lead tingles/tabs being used to secure individual slates 
that have slipped over time. But he said these repairs and the age of the roof provide a clear picture of a roof suffering from nail corrosion. He found no evidence of damage to the roof 
that is consistent with storm damage. He said that the weathering to the slipped slates also 
indicate the slates have been slipped for some time and this is not recent damage. 
Mr D provided photos of a lean to. Mr D says he isnt claiming for damage here because 
two of the pillars had rotted at the bottom and the lean to had exceeded its life span 
because of is defections. But he says a third pillar had split during the storm due to water 
pressure and this is further evidence of the damage that had occurred.
The LAs comments on this are:
The customers own photos show that the lean-to roof is suffering from advanced 
rot. This is not related to water pressure but the rot at the base of the posts meaning 
the lean-to is no longer adequately supported.
I appreciate that Mr D feels the LA changed his view. However, we asked AXA and the LA to 
provide their comments on the additional information Mr D provided to make a fair and 
reasonable assessment of all of the information. This is what they have done.
The final report is one provided by a waterproofing company. The specialist provided photos 
of the inside and outside of Mr Ds home. He concluded that the damage was caused by 
storm. He said that any knock through works carried out years before wouldnt have affected 
the roof in any way. I have kept in mind the fact that the author specialises in waterproofing 
and isnt a roofer. He concluded that an earlier picture of Mr Ds roof from an external 
website showed it was in a good and watertight condition before heavy rainfall damaged the 
roof tiles. I dont think its possible for the waterproofing specialist to be able to conclude this 
from the external website photo taken a number of years before Mr Ds claim. However, the 
photo used does show a rise in the meet between the two roofs of the adjoining properties. 
The specialist also said that damage was caused by high winds as well as heavy rainfall.
While there is evidence of previous repairs to different areas of the roof, the area of damage 
showing slipped tiles seem to be mainly in the area of the meet between the two roofs. 
Our investigator attempted to contact the waterproofing specialist to further discuss his 
report using his direct telephone number and email address provided on his website. Having 
checked, Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries were made by phone and email by this 
service on three separate occasions. But the specialist didnt provide a reply.
In response to the waterproofing specialists report, AXA said the damage to the slate roof 
isnt consistent with being caused by high winds. It says the damage can be tracked in a 
straight line down both roof pitches (front and rear) and is at the juncture of what was two 
separate properties. AXA concluded:
Storm winds cause damage by the negative pressure acting above the tiles and 
lifting them. The effects tend to be greater on the opposite pitch to the direction of the 
prevailing winds with the greatest negative pressure being created as the air moves 
over the ridge line. It would be very unlikely that the wind would cause damage in a 
straight line up both roof pitches.
The evidence of nail fatigue across the roof covering would also contradict the 
specialists view that the roof was in a good state of repair.
In response to AXAs comments, Mr D says:If the damage seen on my roof was not done by storm winds then surely it would 
make sense that the rain damage that occurred in the storm on 27th August 2020 
has caused it, as I have been claiming continually!
I understand how strongly Mr D feels that the damage he is claiming for was caused by the 
storm  and that in his view the roof was in good condition before that. But I dont think the 
evidence provided shows that. I find the detailed explanations along with the photos 
provided by the LA more persuasive. I think some of the damage could be consistent with 
damage typically caused by a storm in terms of the heavy rainfall. But I dont think that storm 
conditions were the main cause of the damage. I think the heavy rainfall made existing 
damage caused by wear and tear worse.
This means I think AXAs decision not to meet Mr Ds claim for roof repairs due to wear and 
tear was reasonable and in line with the policy.
The Director of the LA company has provided details of the LAs accreditation qualifications 
and confirmed his suitability to carry out the role. Our role is to look at each case on its own 
merits. How AXA has dealt with other claims has no relevance on our approach to 
investigating Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman