DRN-3766757
The complaint
Mr D complains National Westminster Bank Plc refuses to refund money he lost to an 
investment scammer.
What happened
Mr D has explained that in 2021 he made the following debit card and bank transfer 
payments from his NatWest current account, for what he thought was a legitimate 
investment.  
Transaction 
number DateMethod of 
paymentMerchant Amount 
(£)
1 14 April 2021 Debit card Wyre-143030 £268.47
2 21 April 2021 Debit card CRO £1,074.54
3 28 April 2021Bank transfer Foris DAX MT 
LIMIT £750
4 29 April 2021 Debit card CRO £2,012.88
Total £4,015.89
When Mr D subsequently got in touch with NatWest to explain hed been scammed, 
NatWest didnt reimburse his lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Mr D referred his complaint 
about NatWest to this service. As our investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the 
case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint, for materially the same reasons as the investigator. 
At the time Mr D made his payments, banks were expected to process payments a
customer authorised it to make; but as a matter of good industry practice, a bank should
have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
There is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every
transaction.
Ive noted Mr Ds comments about being vulnerable because he was an inexperienced 
investor. But Ive seen no reason for NatWest to have stopped Mr Ds payments on this 
basis. I dont see that there was any record of an inability for Mr D to manage his own money 
to warrant an automatic block on his payments. Ive therefore reviewed the prior operation of 
Mr Ds account to see if NatWest ought to have had reasonable concerns before allowing 
any of the payments through. 
I dont think I can say  given the payments in question here, taken singularly or collectively 
 that NatWest unreasonably failed to intervene before executing Mr Ds instructions, or that 
it would be reasonable here to hold NatWest responsible for Mr Ds loss and Ill explain why. 
Firstly, all the payments in dispute were sent to legitimate crypto exchanges and NatWest 
would reasonably have known this at the time they were processed. So, Ive thought about 
whether there was anything else about the payments which ought to have concerned 
NatWest. 
The first three payments
There is a balance to be struck. Banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and 
scams and to act in their customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be involved in 
every transaction. And here I dont think I can fairly say that the first three payments were 
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account. They were of relatively low value 
when compared to Mr Ds normal account spend over the last 12 months. For example, Mr D 
made an undisputed debit card payment of £1,656 in November 2020. The payments were 
also spaced out by more than one week apart and so appear to be one-off payments. I dont 
think NatWest ought to have been obliged to have intervened before allowing any of them 
through, to protect Mr D from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Payment four
Whilst payment four was higher than payments one to three and was also the day after 
payment three, I dont think NatWest ought reasonably to have suspected Mr D was at risk 
of financial harm. Its not uncommon for customers to spend larger amounts at any given 
time. I dont think payment four was sufficiently unusual and uncharacteristic to mean that 
NatWest ought to have suspected that Mr Ds account was at risk of financial harm from 
fraud and therefore warrant an intervention. 
Chargeback 
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme  in this case Visa -
whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it 
cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the 
rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or 
be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. NatWest) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mr D.
In respect of the debit card payments (payments one, two and four), I dont see that NatWest 
attempted chargeback claims. Ive noted Mr D feels there were chargeback 
misrepresentation reason codes that could have been used had NatWest tried but I dont 
agree. Mr D didnt pay the scammers directly and instead paid legitimate crypto exchanges. 
His payments would have been converted to crypto before being sent to the scammers 
wallet. I therefore think the crypto exchanges would have likely defended the chargeback 
claims on the basis that Mr D received the service he paid for. But before a chargeback 
claim can be defended, NatWest would need to have valid grounds to process any claim and 
it doesnt appear it would have had any because there is no dispute Mr D received crypto in 
exchange for his payments. And so, I dont think NatWest acted unfairly by choosing not to 
raise chargeback claims on Mr Ds behalf. 
Recovery for the bank transferI note Mr D feels that NatWest should return his payments in accordance with the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. The CRM Code is only applicable to domestic bank 
transfer payments that were the result of a scam, so debit card payments wouldnt be 
included. Our investigator explained the CRM Code didnt apply to Mr Ds third payment 
because the payment went to an account in his own name. Im satisfied this is correct and 
the CRM Code is only relevant when the domestic transfer is sent to another person. But I 
dont see that NatWest attempted to recover Mr Ds third payment from the beneficiary bank. 
I dont think this makes a material difference here because when this payment was sent to 
Mr Ds Foris account, his £sterling was converted to crypto before being sent to the 
scammers wallet. I therefore dont think these funds would have remained in the beneficiary 
account (his account with Foris) had NatWest tried to retrieve them.  
I therefore dont think NatWest could have recovered any of Mr Ds payments. 
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed with this outcome, especially as hes lost his life 
savings. But I can only uphold this complaint if Im satisfied NatWest did something wrong 
that caused his loss. And in this case, whilst I sympathise with Mr Ds position, for the 
reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded NatWest can fairly be held responsible for his 
loss.
 
My final decision
My final decision is, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman