DRN-3645363
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) registered a default 
with credit reference agencies (CRAs) and transferred her account to a third party debt 
management company (DMC).
What happened
Mrs T had an account with M&S. She got into financial difficulty, the account defaulted and 
then the account was passed to a DMC. She says she didnt know that she had to make a 
payment arrangement and she would like M&S to take the account back from the DMC and 
to set up a payment arrangement with M&S directly instead. Mrs T made a complaint to 
M&S.
M&S did not uphold Mrs Ts complaint. They said she had a payment break from 6 
November 2021 to 6 January 2022. M&S said they wrote to her on 11 January to advise her 
that they were passing her account to a DMC. They said a collections agent taking on 
responsibilities for her account, doesnt represent an escalation of their collections activity 
and there would not be any interest or charges applied because they had passed the 
account to the DMC. They said they had not sold or assigned her account and M&S 
remained the owner of her account. They said the account defaulted after they had sent a 
default notice and a final demand letter prior to this. Mrs T brought her complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ts complaint. He said she had contacted M&S and 
advised them that she expected an increase to her working hours over the next three 
months, as well as advising she was due to receive her pension  so a payment break was 
applied to her account to allow her to review her finances and return to contractual 
payments, or to make an acceptable offer, otherwise her account would be defaulted. She 
was supposed to contact them by 6 January 2022, but as M&S didnt hear from her by that 
date, they defaulted the account and recorded this with the CRAs. M&S then passed her 
account to a DMC and advised her of this in a letter on 11 January 2022.
Mrs T asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said she is not lodging a complaint against M&S as such, as she is aware 
they have treated her fairly and patiently in the past. But she is simply concerned about the 
implications of the collections being with a DMC will have on her credit report and she 
wishes to be able to resume her payments in the usual way through M&S. Mrs T detailed her 
individual circumstances and documented how this could affect her in the future. She said 
she tried to obtain credit with another company to make purchases, but she had been 
declined as a result of being with the DMC and she feels she is unable to obtain credit with 
any other company.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. For ease 
of readability, I will address the default being registered and the account transfer to the DMC 
separately below.
Default
A default can only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least three
months. Mrs T had trouble making her repayments in 2020 originally. Ive read everything 
that she has said about her difficulty during this timeframe, so Im aware of her 
circumstances here. 
Im satisfied that M&S were fair in registering a default, despite Mrs Ts circumstances. They 
had shown her forbearance on a number of occasions with her financial difficulty from 
arranging repayment breaks and repayment plans, but ultimately the arrears on the account 
were continuing to accrue. So Im persuaded M&S were fair to take action to default the 
account when Mrs T did not contact them before the last plan expired with an update on her 
circumstances. It would also mean interest, fees and charges would not be added to her 
account when it was defaulted. 
Ive listened to a phone call Mrs T had with M&S when she made her complaint and she 
acknowledges that she should have contacted them. I know Mrs T was going through some 
health issues at the time and she had issues receiving her pension, but Im persuaded that 
she was aware that she needed to contact M&S before the payment plan had ended. So 
when they didnt hear back from her, and due to the arrears which had built up and the 
forbearance they had previously shown her, where her circumstances still hadnt improved 
the situation, and with her financial difficulties happening for a prolonged period of time, then 
Im satisfied they were fair in registering the default. 
I can see M&S had previously sent Mrs T letters outlining the potential impact of not clearing 
the arrears or agreeing a new repayment plan and since the arrears werent cleared or a 
new arrangement agreed prior to the existing one expiring, Im satisfied M&S were fair to 
default the account. M&S have to report the accurate account activity to the CRAs, which 
includes payment history and defaults. So Im unable to ask them to remove the default 
here.
The account transfer to a DMC
Ive considered what Mrs T has said about M&S passing her account to a DMC. I can see 
that they wrote to Mrs T on 11 January 2022, to confirm they were going to do this. Ive also 
looked at the M&S terms and conditions on their website  as Mrs T will have needed to 
agree to the terms when she opened her account. 
Section 11 of the terms and conditions state Can we transfer our rights and obligations 
under this agreement? it goes on to say We may transfer our rights and our obligations 
under this agreement to a third party, including information about you and how you have 
managed your account which the third party needs to know. We will tell you if we do this.
So Im satisfied M&S were entitled to do this here. And they wrote to Mrs T to inform her of 
this. As M&S had made a commercial decision to do this, it is not within the remit of this 
service to demand that they take the ownership of the collection of her repayments back and 
arrange a payment plan with her when they have made no error here. And Im satisfied they 
have made no error in transferring the account to the DMC. M&S do not have to take the ownership of collecting repayments back and may feel the DMC is more suited to collect the 
payments from Mrs T than themselves directly. 
I can also see that on the final demand letter which M&S sent Mrs T, it states that if she cant 
make the full repayment that they may take steps to recover the debt. These could include 
passing your account to a debt collection agency. So Im satisfied that they have made her 
aware of the possibility of transferring the collection of the payments to a DMC on more than 
one document. 
I know Mrs T has concerns that the transfer of ownership rights to a DMC may negatively 
affect her credit file. Mrs T may wish to check her credit file to ensure the accurate 
information is recorded on there and that only one default is showing. If there is any incorrect 
information, she may want to contact any company who has recorded any incorrect 
information on her credit file to have this corrected. 
Ive considered what Mrs T has said about transferring the rights to a DMC would affect her 
ability to obtain credit. But a DMC showing on her credit file alone is unlikely to be the sole 
factor in her not being approved for credit. Lenders will look at a number of factors, including, 
but not limited to any defaults on her account, how many months had passed since the last 
default, her payment history, her repayments, and number of accounts. So if Mrs T had just 
defaulted, this could be a reason why a lender has not approved an application for credit 
where they previously might have done. If the collection stayed with M&S, it is unlikely the 
outcome of a third party lending application would be different. I say this as the third party 
lender would still see Mrs Ts account had defaulted and any repayment history. So Im not 
persuaded transferring the collection of her repayments to the DMC would make the 
difference to any credit applications that she believes it may.
It's clear to me what a difficult time Mrs T has been through and is going through here. She 
has been clearly trying to be proactive in dealing with her finances at a very tough time. Mrs 
T's repayments to the account should be reflected on her credit file, even when she had an 
arrangement with them.
In addition, Mrs T may wish to consider registering a notice of correction with the CRAs to 
explain what happened during her financial difficulty here. This is a short explanatory note 
that she can add to an entry on her credit file, to explain the background to that entry. So 
anyone who searches her credit report, such as a credit card provider, would see the notice 
of correction and take the notice into account if they viewed her credit file. Prospective 
lenders will each consider a notice like this differently and it isn't a guarantee that they will 
put the underlying payment information to one side. But given how strongly Mrs T feels here 
- it is an option that is open to her. She would need to contact the CRAs to do this.
In summary, in order to ask M&S to remove the default, I would need to see that they had 
registered the default incorrectly. But as the account was in arrears for several months and 
they had sent letters to Mrs Ts registered address with the implications of this and what 
would happen, including a notice of default, then Im satisfied that M&S did not make an 
error in defaulting the account. I understand this decision may have an impact on Mrs T 
obtaining credit in the future, so I havent made this decision lightly, and I commend her for 
wanting to set up another payment arrangement, but it follows I dont require M&S to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman