DRN-2736412
The complaint
Mr I complained because Revolut Ltd refused to refund him for transactions which he said 
he didnt authorise.
What happened
At around 10.30 pm on 15 May 2019, Mr I had his phone stolen by thieves on a moped. 
They drove past him and snatched it from his hand. 
Mr I went to a station to get a train home, but found his Revolut debit card was no longer 
working. Mr I later discovered there had been two bank transfers from his account to a 
person he didnt know. These were for £2,000 and £93, at 11.11 pm and 11.12 pm. The next 
day, Mr I rang Revolut from his partners phone, to tell them what had happened. Revolut 
told Mr I to report the theft to the police, which he did.
But Revolut refused to refund Mr I with the £2,093 which the thieves had stolen. Mr I had 
said his phone had been unlocked in his hand at the time of the theft, but he hadnt been 
logged in to the Revolut app. Revolut explained that the app closes automatically after use 
anyway, and would have needed the passcode, or fingerprint, to log in again. So Revolut 
believed that the thieves must have been able to access Mr Is passcode. The passcode 
would also have been needed for the thieves to have set up the new fraudulent payee. 
Revolut said there had been nothing to suggest that the thieves had threatened Mr I to 
obtain the passcode. It pointed out that the terms and conditions required customers to keep 
their security details safe, and said that for the thieves to have been able to access Mr Is 
money, he must have been grossly negligent with his security details.
Mr I wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He explained that Revolut hadnt been 
helpful. It could only be contacted by chat with an automated response, and by email. He 
wanted an apology for Revolut being slow to reply and unclear about how to solve the 
problem. He also wanted to get his money back. 
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. He accepted that Mr I hadnt authorised the 
transfers, which had been done by the thieves. But he considered it was most likely that Mr I 
had recorded his passcode, either on the phone itself, or in the phone case. The computer 
records showed there had been no failed attempts to access the app using an incorrect 
passcode. Once the thieves had been able to open the Revolut app, theyd changed the 
passcode on Mr Is phone, and had then gone on to set up the new fraudulent payee and 
make the transfers. 
So the investigator thought it was more likely than not that the passcode was stored 
somewhere on or around the phone. Doing this would count as gross negligence and 
would mean that Revolut didnt have to refund Mr I.
Mr I wasnt happy with this. He said that everything had happened because the thieves had 
put in a new passcode. He said that all his savings had been with Revolut and it couldnt be 
a safe bank system that was only protected by a four-digit code. He said that any e-bank 
should have several safety procedures before enabling money transfer, not just one. Mr I 
said that £2,093 was a huge sum of money for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im sorry that Mr I was the victim of thieves and fraudsters. I do understand that this is 
a shocking and very upsetting situation, especially as the loss was a great deal of money, 
and really mattered to Mr I. 
The people who are really responsible for Mr Is financial loss and distress are, of course, 
the fraudsters. But my job is to see whether, under the relevant regulations, Revolut has a 
responsibility to refund Mr I.
The relevant regulations
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in May 2019 are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Revolut) 
must show the payment was authenticated. Thats the technical part. The regulations also 
say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the payments. In 
general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the 
customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account holders can 
still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for example if theyve 
failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed gross negligence.
Here, Revolut hasnt provided as much information about authentication as Id like to see. 
Ive asked for this, but Revolut hasnt provided it. This is frustrating, but when evidence is 
missing, I take my decision on the basis of what I think is most likely to have happened, 
taking into account what information is available, and the circumstances of the case. 
Here, the evidence I do have suggests that its more likely than not that it was the passcode 
which was used to authenticate the fraudulent transactions. And this existing passcode 
would have been needed for the fraudsters to change to a new one.
Mr Is phone was unlocked and in his hand at the time of the theft. So the fraudsters wouldnt 
have had to get past a PIN or security lock on the phone itself. But they would have had to 
gain access to the Revolut app,by using a passcode or biometric measure (such as a 
fingerprint). The fraudsters then set up a new payee and made the transfers. 
Its difficult for me to see how it was possible for the fraudsters to do this quickly as they did 
here. When we asked Mr I, he said that he didnt have his passcode for the Revolut app 
anywhere on the phone, or inside the case. He told us that this was because it was a 
numeric code that was impossible for me to forget.
The problem with this is that it appears from the evidence that the passcode was 
successfully used within a relatively short time from when Mr I said the phone was stolen. All 
of this suggests that the thieves found the passcode on the phone, or in the phone case  or 
that it was something which was so easy to guess that the fraudsters found access easy. So 
while Ive taken everything that Mr I has said into account, I cant see any other way in which 
the thieves could have carried out the transactions that they did. Revoluts terms of business require account holders to keep their security details, including 
passcodes, secure. In the circumstances of this case, the only conclusion I can come to is 
that Mr I didnt do this. And under the regulations, not keeping security details including 
passcodes safe, counts as gross negligence. And although I do appreciate that this is hard 
for Mr I, who was a victim of crime, it means that Revolut doesnt have any obligation to 
refund Mr I. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that its not open to me to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman