DRN-3051833
The complaint
Ms L complains that Experian Limited has unfairly reduced her credit score over the past 
year. Ms L says that Experian hasnt explained why this has happened. And it has left her 
unable to access credit at the rate shed like.
What happened
Ms L says that shes always had a credit score in the excellent range but that last year, it 
went down to a poor score. Ms L says she pays her debts in full and on time and only uses 
a small percentage of her available credit.
Ms L says the only negative entry is a late payment in mid-2020 that was due to a 
misunderstanding but that this didnt stop her getting a new mobile phone contract. Ms L 
points out that she has enough savings to settle her debts in full if necessary. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Ms Ls complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Experian gave Ms L an explanation of why her credit score had changed. The investigator 
told Ms L that Experian doesnt share her credit score with potential lenders. 
Ms L disagrees with the investigators recommendation. She explains shes not seeking 
compensation. Ms L just wants Experian to explain the process it uses to determine her 
credit score.
Ms L says Experian does share her credit score with businesses who then use that to decide 
what credit they will offer her. Ms L says that when her Experian credit score was high, she 
was able to access interest free credit. Ms L asks if the default lowered her score, why did it 
not drop until several months after the default was applied.
Ms L questions why Experian views a new utility contract as having a negative impact on her 
credit score, if its supposed to boost her score. Ms L says other people earning less than 
her but with a high Experian credit rating have been offered interest free credit cards. Ms L 
says that her low Experian credit score has deprived her of access to interest free borrowing 
on a credit card. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key 
issues here. The rules that govern this service allow me to do this.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Ms L is facing with accessing interest free credit. But 
my role is to consider whether Experian has done anything wrong or treated Ms L unfairly. 
Ms L wants Experian to explain how it calculates her credit score, but I wouldnt expect it to 
share commercially sensitive nature about its algorithm. Im satisfied that Experian has given 
Ms L quite a detailed explanation of the information it has considered when generating her 
credit score. From reading Experians response, the negative factors include a defaulted 
account, increased credit usage and opening new credit accounts within the previous six 
months. 
Ms L makes the point about the negative impact of opening new credit accounts when 
Experian says that they will benefit a consumers credit score. Experians website says that a 
consumer may need to wait for new accounts to mature before they help with their credit 
score. This is reflected in Experians response to Ms L where it says her credit score had 
recently increased due to the new accounts aging. 
Although Experian gives Ms L a credit score; lenders and other businesses will use the data 
recorded on her credit file together with their own criteria to make lending decisions. The 
credit score on Ms Ls personal Experian file is just an illustration of how Experian thinks 
lenders might look at her credit history. Experian doesnt share it with businesses when a 
credit search is carried out. This means I cant agree that Ms Ls low Experian credit score 
has altered lenders attitude to her. It seems more likely that prospective lenders are taking 
account of similar factors as Experian has done when it generates Ms Ls credit score. 
I appreciate that Ms L knows of friends who earn significantly less than her but have high 
credit scores and can access interest free credit card offers. As Ive said above, it is the 
lender who will make the decision on whether and at what rate it wants to lend money. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms L but I dont require Experian to take further action in response to 
her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman