DRN-3539669
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd declined her claim and
subsequently voided her home insurance policy for misrepresentation.
What happened
Mrs M had home insurance with Accredited. In April 2021, she made a claim when a water
tank burst and flooded her house, damaging the roof and rooms in the middle and at the
front of the house. Accredited appointed a loss adjuster, and Mrs M appointed loss
assessors to assist her with the claim.
Mrs Ms loss assessor met with the loss adjuster on 20 April. At this meeting Mrs M
mentioned there was an extension at the back of the house which still had some internal
finishes to be completed. On 23 April the claim was re-allocated to a second loss adjuster
who undertook a site visit. On 2 July an independent survey was carried out to provide a
comparison estimate for the repairs, but Accredited said it wouldnt accept the independent
survey and a further survey was carried out in September. The second loss adjuster then left
and was replaced with the first loss adjuster and the claim was eventually sent for
underwriting in October 2021.
Accredited told Mrs M the claim was being declined because it hadnt known there were
outstanding building works when it offered the policy. Mrs M wasnt happy her claim had
been declined and so she complained to Accredited.
Having previously said it didnt accept there had been delays, Accredited offered Mrs M
£150 compensation for the time it had taken to review the claim. But it maintained its position
in respect of the outcome of the claim, stating it wouldnt have offered the policy if it had
known about the extension works.
Mrs M remained dissatisfied and so she complained to this service. She explained the
building of the extension started in 2017 and, by December 2019, the full exterior, roof,
windows, doors, floors, and roughcasting were all complete with only the electrics and
internal walls outstanding. This had been due to begin in January 2020, but the builder
cancelled due to illness and then it didnt go ahead because of the pandemic.
Mrs M explained the policy was taken out in October 2020 and when she told Accredited she
had no building work in progress, she didnt foresee the work going ahead because of the
pandemic. She argued the extension didnt cause nor was it affected by the flood and it
wasnt part of the claim.
She said it took Accredited seven months to tell her the outcome of the claim and has
questioned why she wasn't told there was a problem after the first or second visit. In the time
it took Accredited to review the claim, she was left with concrete floors, plasterboard walls,
damp bathroom walls and ceiling, and her husbands health deteriorated due to the
dampness and mould. During that time, she was unable to go away because she didn't know
who might need access to her home, and her furniture was left sitting in a container. Mrs M
also complained about the time she spent dealing with the claim, including completing
paperwork, sending video and photographic evidence, and going through emails looking for
confirmation of suppliers and materials. Finally, she has since found it difficult to gain
insurance and her premiums have increased.
After Mrs M had complained to this service, Accredited confirmed that the policy had since
been cancelled for misrepresentation and that she would receive a refund.
My provisional findings
I stated the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care
not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance policy. The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying 
misrepresentation.
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the
policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless.
I explained that when Mrs M took out the policy in October 2020, all external building work 
on the extension was complete with only internal work such as plumbing, electrics, internal 
insulation and plaster boarding outstanding. The work had unfortunately come to a halt due 
to Covid and at the time Mrs M applied for the policy, there was no work taking place. Mrs M 
applied for the policy online and was asked two questions which were relevant to the issue 
of whether she made a misrepresentation when she applied for the policy.
When she was on the price comparison site, she was asked is your house undergoing any
building work? The question was accompanied by a prompt stating answer yes if theres
any ongoing or incomplete building work. Mrs M answered yes to this question and I was
satisfied this was a clear question and that Mrs M answered it correctly because, while there
was no work ongoing at the time of the application, the extension was incomplete.
She was then taken to Accrediteds website where she was asked are there any building
works in progress?, to which she answered no. I considered whether this was a clear
question and I didnt think it was. The words in progress suggest the question is asking
whether there was actual building work taking place at the time of the application and, if the
question was intended to include incomplete building work (which would need to be
completed at some stage), I thought Accredited shouldve been specific about this.
Mrs M had explained she answered no because there was no building work taking place on
the extension at the time. While there was outstanding work which needed to be finished
before the extension was completely finished, I was satisfied there was no building work 
taking place or in progress at the time of the application, so I was satisfied Mrs Ms answer 
was correct.
Accredited had said it wouldnt have offered Mrs M insurance if shed told it about the
extension when she applied for the policy but, as I didnt think there was a clear question or
that Mrs M answered the question incorrectly, I didnt consider this.
Consequently, I didnt think Accrediteds decision to decline the claim and void the policy
based on a misrepresentation was fair. I was therefore minded to direc it to reconsider thisclaim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. I said it should also reinstate 
the policy and ensure any adverse markers were removed from Mrs Ms insurance record.
underinsurance
I wasnt minded to deal with underinsurance as part of this complaint, explaining it was a 
matter for Accredited if it raised the issue as part of its reconsideration of this claim.
compensation
Mrs M insurance premiums have increased, and I explained this isnt a result of the way
Accredited handled the claim but likely a result of her policy having been cancelled.
I agreed there were delays in telling Mrs M about the outcome of the claim and that these
delays were unnecessary because the loss adjuster knew about the extension from the date
he first attended the property. Insurance claims can often by very time consuming for the
policy holder, but I accepted the time Mrs M had to spend living in very difficult conditions 
had a significant impact.
Taking into account both the increase in Mrs Ms insurance premiums and the trouble and
upset she experienced as a result of Accrediteds handling of the claim, I was minded to 
direct it to pay her £700 compensation (on top of the £150 its previously offered).
Developments
Neither party has submitted any additional comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has submitted any additional comments or evidence, the findings in 
my final decision will be the same as the findings in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to reconsider the claim. 
If this results in a cash settlement this should include a payment of 8% simple interest* from 
the date of the claim to the date it makes the payment. It should also pay Mrs M £700 
compensation for the trouble and upset shes experienced as part of its poor handling of the 
claim.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require Accredited to deduct tax from the interest it pays Mrs
M. If it does, and if Mrs M requests it, Accredited should provide her with a certificate
showing how much tax it has taken off so that she may reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman