DRN-2256763
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out during a meeting in 1991 to protect Mr and 
Mrs Rs mortgage repayments. The policy was in Mr Rs sole name and gave him accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Nationwide disagreed so the complaint was passed to
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) Ive reached my decision based on 
the balance of probabilities. In other words, based on what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
I have decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to give Mr and Mrs R enough clear information so they could make an 
informed decision whether or not to buy PPI. I dont think its shown it did this and I think this 
mattered to Mr and Mrs R.
I say this because Mr R had a medical condition which met this policys definition of 
pre-existing and so would not have been covered by the policy. So it was likely that Mr R 
would not have been able to claim on the policy when he needed to, and when he expected 
to be able to. And I cant see Nationwide made this clear to Mr and Mrs R. To the contrary, 
Mr R recalls telling the adviser that he was undergoing tests at the time for an unknown 
medical condition, asking if this would affect his cover - and being assured it wouldnt.  
Nationwide says that Mr and Mrs R would have been given a leaflet that explained the 
exclusion and that the policy document provided information on the same. But I dont think 
this evidences that it clearly highlighted that pre-existing medical conditions would be 
excluded from cover. 
The bank asked for copies of Mr Rs medical records arguing that his condition was 
diagnosed in 1993 and we only have his testimony to evidence that he both had symptoms 
and was undergoing tests at the time of the sale. I see Mr R tried to obtain his records, but 
has been told they can no longer be accessed due to the way they were stored. 
However Im satisfied I can reach a fair decision based on the evidence we have. I disagree 
with Nationwides view that Mr R has created doubt  he has been consistent throughout in 
saying his diagnosis date wasnt until 1993. And given the nature of his condition I think its 
likely he was seeking medical advice and undergoing tests for a significant period of time 
prior to diagnosis, including at the time of the sale as he says. So I think its fair to conclude 
that his condition met the policy definition of pre-existing medical conditions. For this policy 
that included conditions which the policyholder was aware of or had suffered from in the 
12-month period immediately prior to cover commencing. 
As Mr R was seeking medical attention at the time of the sale for what went on to be 
diagnosed as a severe degenerative condition, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs R wouldnt 
have taken out the PPI if theyd been better informed 
It follows I think Mr and Mr and Mrs R lost out because of the problems with this sale.
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs R in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs R the amount paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If a successful claim was made under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off the 
value of the claim from the amount it owes. If applicable, it can also deduct any 
commission already refunded.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide
must give Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My decision is I am upholding this complaint and Nationwide must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman