DRN-3549940
The complaint
Mr W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) wont refund payments he made 
to what he says were investment scammers.
What happened
In 2018 Mr W made a series of payments to two different merchants Ill call S1 and S2. S1 
initially contacted Mr W and advised theyd show him how to trade and offered to trade on 
his behalf. They said he could earn at least 10% per month and Mr W invested a small 
amount of £250 in January 2018 to start with. S2 cold called Mr W and promised him a 
return of 10% per month and advised hed be able to get his money out at any time and 
could make withdrawals if he was unhappy. 
When Mr W saw some profits on his S2 trading account, he requested a withdrawal. S2 
advised they could only pay in Bitcoin. They subsequently closed all communication with 
him, along with his account. 
Between January 2018 to March 2018, Mr W paid S1 and S2 a total of £10,720.31 using his 
Tesco Mastercard credit card (this includes transaction fees that Tesco charged him). 
The first two payments showed on Mr Ws statement as going to S1 directly but the 
remainder went to a different merchant Ill refer to as Z. 
Mr W said he approached Tesco in 2018 to assist him with chargeback claims but it chose 
not to help him. He said he deposited money with S2 via another banking provider and that 
banking provider successfully recovered his payments via the chargeback scheme. Mr W 
complained to Tesco in 2020 about not assisting him and it replied advising it had no 
chargeback options via the Mastercard chargeback scheme, nor did s.75 apply.
 
Mr W referred his complaint to this office. One of our Investigators suggested that Tesco 
should refund Mr Ws his payments. In summary she thought Tesco should provide a refund 
under s.75 for the payments to S1. She thought some of the payments to S2 were unusual 
and that Tesco should have intervened and could have prevented some of those losses. 
On 20 May 2022, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings (which form part of this final decision) below:
I have considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached a different outcome to that of our Investigator. So, Im issuing 
this provisional decision to give everyone a further opportunity to comment before finalising 
my decision. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr W authorised the payments relevant to this complaint. And I dont 
think Tesco were wrong to allow these payments to go through mostly unchallenged at the 
relevant times  Ill consider the payment it did challenge later below. Mr W is seeking 
reimbursement through either chargeback or s.75. He believes he has been scammed by S1 
and S2. Whether S1 or S2 were operating a scam is potentially relevant to chargeback and 
s.75, so Ill deal with that first. 
Not every complaint referred to this office and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a 
scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in 
disappointing returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using 
sales methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers 
who lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006).
Ive paid particular attention to the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's 
securities regulators. Its my understanding that neither S1 or S2 have any adverse 
information reported about them on this source. I also wasnt able to find any warnings about 
S1 or S2 on the Financial Conduct Authoritys website (FCA  the UK Regulator). Ive noted 
S2 is still in operation today. 
Ive no reason to doubt Mr Ws testimony about his issues with S1 or S2. But in the 
communication Ive seen from him, the issues he experienced with withdrawals were due to 
the method by which they were due to be repaid rather than S2 refusing to permit 
withdrawals at all. I accept our Investigators conclusion that neither S1 or S2 appear to have 
been regulated, but this doesnt in itself mean they were operating scams. Ive noted he was 
dealing in cryptocurrency which was unregulated at the time of his payments. Overall, I cant 
say with any certainty that S1 or S2 were operating scams and werent just offering high risk, 
unregulated investments. 
Chargeback
Tesco are bound by the card scheme providers rules which in this case is Mastercard. And 
whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally think its good practice to raise one 
where there is a reasonable prospect of success. Our service has clarified the position with 
Mastercard themselves and theyve confirmed there are very limited options for payments 
that have gone to any type of investment. The only possible avenue for success is if funds 
arent credited from the card to the investment account. 
I appreciate Mr W was able to recover his S2 payments via the chargeback scheme and 
another banking provider but this may have been due to S2s bank not defending the claim 
or Mr Ws other bank being part of another chargeback scheme entirely (subject to different 
rules). Being the victim of an alleged scam isnt something the Mastercard chargeback 
scheme provides dispute resolution options for. So taking all of this into consideration I think 
Tesco declining to raise chargeback claims on Mr Ws behalf was a reasonable exercise of 
its discretion. 
Section 75
For this to have been a valid option there must have been an unbroken chain between the 
debtor (Mr W), creditor (Tesco) and the supplier (S1 and S2 or potentially Z). Ill refer to this 
as the DCS chain. And any claim being made would have to have related to a breach of 
contract and or a misrepresentation between Mr W and S1 and S2 (or potentially Z) in 
relation to a contract that was funded by the Tesco credit card.
Tesco questioned whether there was an unbroken DCS chain for all except the two 
payments that went directly to S1. As Ive mentioned above, the majority of the payments (in both value and number) went to Z. Should Z have been acting as a payment processor for 
S2, this wouldnt break the DCS chain. But Im not going to make a finding in relation to the 
DCS chain as I dont think this makes a difference for the reasons Ill come to. 
The basis of our Investigator upholding the complaint was that she thought S1 had mis-
represented themselves as a genuine investment firm and that this had induced Mr W into 
entering an agreement with them. But as Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to 
support that S1 were operating a scam, I dont think Mr W has evidenced a valid claim for 
misrepresentation. Similarly, Ive not seen evidence of the contract / agreement between S1 
and Mr W to support that there has been a breach of contract. As such, I dont think Mr W 
has evidenced he has a valid claim under s.75.
 
In relation to S2, our Investigator concluded that Mr W hadnt presented any evidence to 
show that the payments via Z went to his trading account with S2. But she felt that Tesco 
ought to have provided a warning to Mr W when it intervened in his payments to them on 6 
March 2018. Ive thought very carefully about this as it would appear Tesco contacted Mr W 
to confirm whether the payment to Z was genuine. Given that Im not persuaded that S2 
operated a scam, I dont think Tesco were required to give Mr W a warning as there was no 
indication hed fallen victim to a scam. 
Even if I found there was no break in the DCS chain between Mr W, Z and S2, there is no 
credible evidence that S2 (still in operation) misrepresented themselves to Mr W or breached 
any agreement they had with him. 
Im of course sorry to hear Mr W lost such a significant amount of money. But on the 
evidence Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded there is a reasonable basis upon which I can 
tell Tesco they need to do more to resolve this complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Tesco didnt reply and so I assume it has nothing further to add. 
Mr W replied, he disagreed with the outcome and provided some further comments and 
information. He said in summary:
Hes not sure what other evidence he can provide. Hes been on websites that show 
others have been scammed by the same people. His other banking provider agreed 
and returned his money via chargeback and wouldnt have done so if it wasnt a 
scam. He was told by the merchants his money was growing each week and as soon 
as he asked to take profit, they locked him out of his online platform and stopped all 
communication. 
Mr W provided email messages from his S2 account manager dated 22 May 2018 which 
stated his account made €90 profit and the balance stood at €28,578.
 
Mr W further provided a link to teamviewer (which is how he communicated with his 
account manager); a link to anydesk  the screensharing software  sent to him from S2; a 
personal questionnaire sent to him from S2; a registration document sent to him by S2; a 
deposit confirmation email from S2 and a link to a forum alleging that S2 were scammers. 
Mr W said hes disappointed with Tescos attitude to this case and he contacted them when 
he still had contact with the so-called traders and offered to make a small deposit so they 
could track the funds. He also asked Tesco to block his card so not even he could get 
money out of the account after it said it couldnt help. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Much of the information Mr W provided isnt in dispute. I dont dispute that he had a trading 
platform with S2 and that he would have needed to have provided personal information to 
activate this account. But Im still not persuaded that S2 operated a scam investment 
trading platform.
Ive reviewed the forum webpage Mr W provided about S2 where he states other people said 
they were scammed by them. I saw one review from an individual that said they were unable 
to withdraw funds because S2 could only pay in Bitcoin to a cryptoasset provider. This 
repeats what I noted from Mr Ws correspondence with S2. There wasnt a refusal on S2s 
part to permit Mr W to withdraw his funds, there was a disagreement about the method in 
which the withdrawal could be paid. Ive seen no agreement between Mr W and S2 that 
would suggest S2 was acting in breach of it. 
Mr W provided no new information about S1 or his dealings with them, so I remain of the 
view that they there is no persuasive evidence they operated a scam trading platform. Im 
also of the view that Mr W hasnt persuasively demonstrated how they misrepresented 
themselves to him or that they breached a contract he had with them. 
Overall, I dont agree that Mr W has established a valid misrepresentation or breach of 
contract claim under s.75 for his payments to S1 or S2.
 
I do appreciate Mr Ws point that he was able to recover his payments to S2 via another 
banking provider through successful chargeback claims. But I can only consider whether 
Tesco acted fairly when considering chargeback claims in accordance with Mastercard rules. 
And for the reasons already explained, I dont think Tesco acted unfairly when choosing to 
decline Mr Ws chargeback claim  and thats because the dispute rules didnt allow them 
the option to do so. 
I also appreciate that Mr W didnt find Tesco particularly helpful when he was attempting to 
recover his payments. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think Mr W had any 
valid options for Tesco to either assist with recovering his payments via the chargeback 
scheme nor do I think he demonstrated that they were jointly and severally liable to refund 
them in accordance with s.75. 
And so, despite my natural sympathies for Mr Ws losses, for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I dont think Tesco acted unreasonably by not refunding his disputed payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman