DRN-3204513
The complaint
Mr M complained that Everyday Lending Limited acted irresponsibly when it gave him 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr M took out three Everyday Lending loans as follows:
Loan Loan start 
dateLoan 
amountMonthly 
repaymentTotal loan 
repayableLoan term
(months)Loan 
ended
1 19/03/13 £2,270 £188.10 £4,514.40 24 28/10/13
2 28/10/13 £4,218.16 £242.72 £8,737.92 36 05/01/15
3 05/01/15 £7,775.65 £344.68 £14,476.56 42 11/09/18
Mr M has brought his complaint to us through his representative, but to keep things 
simpler, Ill just refer to Mr M.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and whilst he didnt think that we could uphold 
Mr Ms complaint about loans 1 and 2, he did think that loan 3 should have been provided. 
He set out his findings in a letter explaining how hed come to his view. 
Everyday Lending said it accepted what our adjudicator said and agreed to pay the 
recommended redress in respect of loan 3 to put things right. 
Mr M also agreed with our adjudicator about loan 3, but felt that his complaint about both the 
other loans should be upheld as well. 
Mr M mainly said that:
on the first loan, overtime pay was included when assessing affordability even though 
it wasnt guaranteed and the lender could have calculated his income and 
expenditure on basic pay online 
he was using other lenders which was identified on his bank statements but the use 
of his overdraft doesnt appear to have been taken into account 
given the amount of loan 1 the lender ought to have done more to ensure the loan 
wouldnt adversely impact on his circumstances
had the lender increased checks with each application, dependency on the loans 
could have been avoided.
As Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view, it has come to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. Id like to reassure Mr M that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and 
Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain why I say 
this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must 
work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable 
expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that 
the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must 
take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in 
other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is 
for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit 
history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally 
to have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be 
more difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the 
fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were 
done and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there 
was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the 
lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a 
borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Everyday Lending did what it 
needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr M. 
As Everyday Lending has agreed to uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 3 and do what is 
needed to put things right in line with our adjudicators recommendation, then I dont need to 
consider this loan further save to include it in the redress. So Ill concentrate on looking into 
loans 1 and 2.
loan 1
Everyday Lending asked Mr M about his income and expenditure and obtained a payslip 
and looked at his bank statements to verify his income and his spending. It worked out a 
figure of around £1,858 for Mr Ms monthly earnings. I've thought about what Mr M has said about his earnings including overtime but the lenders affordability assessment seems 
broadly reasonable to me. It is based on Mr Ms actual earnings and I think its fair to say 
that Mr M didnt suggest that his overtime hours werent reliable and shouldnt be included 
in any affordability assessment. And I dont think that the lender had any other reason to 
think that overtime wasnt likely to continue to be a regular part of Mr Ms earnings given 
the nature of his work.  
Everyday Lending also carried out credit checks which showed that Mr M had a bank loan 
which cost him £156 per month and a mail order account with a balance owed of £94.
When assessing affordability, Everyday Lending allowed for Mr Ms monthly payment of 
£600 for rent. It also relied on statistical information and factored into its calculations an 
amount that reflected the typical monthly expenditure someone in Mr Ms position might 
reasonably expect to pay according to national UK averages worked out by the Office for 
National Statistics. 
After allowing for the cost of the repayments he would have to make for this loan, 
Everyday Lending worked out that he should still have around £264 surplus cash each 
month.
I think the checks undertaken by Everyday Lending were reasonable and proportionate in 
the circumstances and that it was fair for Everyday Lending to conclude that the loan 
repayments looked like they shouldve been comfortably affordable for Mr M based on the 
information it had gathered.
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr M provided or the other 
information Everyday Lending had recorded, which meant that Everyday Lending 
shouldve taken more steps to check the information Mr M had declared. And I think the 
checks were enough for Everyday Lending to agree to lend. So I dont uphold Mr Ms 
complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Mr M took out loan 2 and used this to repay loan 1 and give him some extra cash for a 
holiday.
It appears that Mr Ms circumstances were broadly the same as they had been when he 
took out his first loan  hed been able to maintain his earnings and his monthly outgoings 
still looked similar, although of course he was now also paying for loan 1. An up to date 
credit checks showed that Mr M had a couple of credit cards in addition to the bank loan 
and the mail order account that Everyday Lending already knew about. But overall, I dont 
think the lender saw enough information to suggest that Mr M might be in any sort of 
financial difficulty. His total indebtedness and the relatively limited use Mr M seemed to be 
making of credit wasnt enough to point to any money problems  and Mr M had given a 
plausible explanation to Everyday Lending about why he needed the loan.   
I think its fair to say that loan 2 shouldve been affordable for Mr M as it looked like he 
should still have around £228 spare cash each month after taking it out.
Mr M hadnt shown Everyday Lending any signs that he was finding it hard to pay for his 
borrowing and the figures hed declared, and the information Everyday Lending had 
collected, seem to support Everyday Lendings lending decision. Looked at overall, I dont 
think there was enough in the information that Everyday Lending could see that shouldve 
prompted it to do more in-depth checks before making its lending decision or made it 
realise that Mr M couldnt afford to pay this loan in a sustainable way.And I think it was too soon for Everyday Lending reasonably to be able to identify any 
particular pattern of lending that wouldve suggested Mr M was over-reliant on this type of 
borrowing and so it shouldnt have lent to him. 
To sum up, I think the checks that Everyday Lending carried out before it agreed to 
provide loans 1 and 2 were proportionate and it was entitled to rely on the information it 
acquired which showed that these loans looked sustainably affordable for Mr M.
Im sorry that Mr M found himself in financial difficulty. I accept that Mr Ms financial 
situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided or the other 
information Everyday Lending obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be 
able to say a lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way. And, in this case, I dont 
think that Everyday Lending did anything wrong in deciding to lend loans 1 and 2 to Mr M. 
It did sufficient checks in the particular circumstances of these loan applications and made 
fair lending decisions based on the information it obtained. So I havent seen enough to be 
able to uphold his irresponsible lending complaint in respect of the first two loans.
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr M. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Everyday Lending should pay any additional redress. 
Mr M hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 
Everyday Lending acted unfairly towards Mr M in any other way. So Im not awarding any 
additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the capital amount that he borrowed 
when he took out loan 3, because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has been 
charged extra for a loan that should not have been provided to him and thats unfair. In line 
with this Services approach, Mr M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
So, Everyday Lending should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of having been given 
loan 3. The repayments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr M having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Lending should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr M.
Whilst its fair that Mr Ms credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So Everyday Lending should remove any 
negative information recorded on Mr Ms credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted 
if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 3 and Everyday Lending 
Limited should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman