DRN-2692174
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly 
declined a claim under their home insurance policy.
Mr W has led this complaint, so Ill refer to him and Mrs W collectively as Mr W within this 
decision unless specified.
What happened
The history of this complaint is known to both parties so Ive summarised events below.
 
Mr W made a claim under his personal possession cover for a lost watch. Its value at 
the time of the loss was £1,800.
Lloyds considered the claim but declined it, saying the policy said any item worth 
more than £1,500 had to be declared. And as Mr W hadnt declared the watch, it 
wouldnt cover the claim. 
Mr W complained but Lloyds maintained its decision. 
Our investigator said the policy documents were clear on this topic and Mr W should 
have declared the watch due to its value. So, she felt Lloyds had acted reasonably in 
declining the claim and not paying Mr W anything.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said there was a term of the 
contents section of the policy which showed that Lloyds should pay a proportion of 
the claim. Our investigator responded to say this term wasnt relevant as this claim 
was for personal possession cover, not contents. 
Mr W still disagreed so, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint, and Ill explain why.
In this case Lloyds hasnt disputed that Mr Ws watch was lost while away from the 
home. Simply that it isnt covered under the policy as he didnt declare it. 
Mr W has provided a copy of his policy book. Within the summary under the heading 
Important it says You need to tell us about (to specify) any items worth more than 
£1,500. Any items individually valued above this amount that you havent told 
us about and arent itemised in your policy schedule arent covered You can 
add specified items to your policy at any time. To do so please contact us. 
[my emphasis]
As a result Im satisfied this requirement was communicated in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way to Mr W. 
Mr W didnt declare or specify the watch, which was worth over £1,500, to Lloyds. 
And as it wasnt specified Im satisfied Lloyds reasonably declined this claim in line 
with its terms. 
Mr W said he should be paid a proportion of the watchs value, and quoted a term 
related to proportionately settling claims under the contents part of his policy. But as 
our investigator has highlighted, this is a separate area of cover as his claim falls 
under personal possession cover, not contents. 
Mr W also said he should be paid £1,500 under the personal possessions cover as 
this is the single item limit for this cover. But this section is subject to the exclusion 
Ive quoted above about specifying items. So, this doesnt change anything.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman