DRN-3540840
The complaint
Ms Y complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked and closed her account. She wanted to 
know the reason and compensation.  She was also unhappy that HSBC issued a cheque for 
the closing balance so there was a delay in this being available for her. 
What happened
Ms Y had several accounts with HSBC.
On 18 June 2020 HSBC blocked the account to carry out a review. The review was 
completed on 25 June 2020 and the restriction was removed. 
Ms Y complained to HSBC about the block. HSBC issued a final response letter on 
13 July 2020. They said they were complying with their legal and regulatory obligations. 
They agreed that they would refund any fees Ms Y had incurred for missed payments during 
the block.
On 25 August 2020 HSBC sent a notice to close letter saying they were closing Ms Ys 
accounts with immediate effect. HSBC said Ms Ys personal loan would remain in force.
HSBC issued Ms Y with a cheque for the closing balance on 27 August 2020.
Ms Y complained to our service.
She told us that because of the closure of her accounts she wasnt able to make contactless 
payments for her groceries or public transport and her direct debits (DD) hadnt been paid 
including DDs for a HSBC personal loan and for her credit card. She also had to rearrange 
DDs for her utilities and phone providers. She said that another bank which was part of the 
HSBC group in another jurisdiction had given her one months notice to make alternative 
financial arrangements.
One of our investigators looked into the case. He thought the bank had done nothing wrong 
when they closed her accounts. He also said they werent obliged to give Ms Y notice or 
reason. He didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong as he thought they were entitled to 
give Ms Y her closing balance by cheque.
Ms Y was unhappy with the view she said her notice to close letter was dated 
25 August 2020, but she didnt receive it until 1 September 2020, so she says she wasnt 
notified until then. Ms Y didnt receive the cheque for the closing balance until 
5 September 2020. Ms Y said during that time she was still being chased for her monthly 
loan payment and by debt collectors as she had missed one months payments on her loan 
because of the closure.
The investigator responded  he said HSBC couldnt be held liable for the delays in the post 
arriving. 
Ms Y thought HSBC should provide customers with notice of blocking funds prior to blocking 
an account. She didnt think HSBC was being reasonable in not giving any notice. She said 
another bank which was part of the HSBC group in another jurisdiction did give her two 
months notice.
The investigator asked Ms Y to provide evidence of the loan payment being missed and any 
charges she had incurred.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account Block and closure
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Ms Ys account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied HSBC were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Ms Ys account. 
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say a bank must keep a customer 
or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. In this case Ms Y 
was told on the phone that her accounts were closing and to expect a letter. Ms Y was sent 
a letter informing her the accounts would close with immediate effect. 
Ive considered whether HSBC acted fairly in closing Ms Ys accounts. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of her accounts and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case HSBC closed Ms Ys 
accounts without notice. For HSBC to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply 
their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the evidence 
Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the 
accounts as its already done. 
I know Ms Y has said she didnt receive the closure letter until the 1 September 2020 even 
though it was dated the 25 August 2020. I appreciate this must have been frustrating for her, 
but the important point here is whether HSBC have met the criteria for immediate closure not 
when they communicated that closure to Ms Y. And on the evidence, Im satisfied that they 
have. I also dont think HSBC can be held responsible for delays in the postal system.
Ms Y has said she doesnt understand why another part of the HSBC group in another 
jurisdiction managed to give her two months notice and HSBC didnt. I cant make 
comments about how a financial institution in a foreign jurisdiction may choose to run its 
business. However, I can reassure Ms Y that I have reviewed the evidence in this case, and 
Im satisfied HSBC didnt act unfairly in this situation.
Delay in receiving the closing balanceMs Y was sent a cheque by HSBC for the closing balance. Ms Y has said this cheque was 
delayed and didnt arrive until 5 September 2020. This meant she didnt have access to her 
money to pay bills and in particular she didnt know if the loan payment had been paid.
Although I can appreciate the frustration, HSBC is entitled to send closing balances by 
cheque, so I dont think they have done anything wrong there. I can see the cheque wasnt 
the subject of a delay so although I appreciate it would have been easier for Ms Y if she had 
the balance transferred to another account, the cheque was already being processed when 
she phoned HSBC to give them her new account details. I dont think HSBC did anything 
wrong by issuing a cheque. I also dont think they can be held responsible for delays in the 
postal system.
Ms Y has said that due to the closure of the accounts she missed some direct debit 
payments. Specifically, she missed a payment on her HSBC loan and a credit card payment. 
I note that as a gesture of goodwill, HSBC offered to pay any late payment fees incurred by 
Ms Y. Ms Y hasnt taken HSBC up on this offer, so I dont think she has incurred any fees. 
But I leave it up to her to contact HSBC if she has.
In any event I have already said HSBC did nothing wrong when it reviewed and closed 
Ms Ys accounts so although I appreciate that having to rearrange her DDs and the loan 
payment was frustrating I cant hold HSBC responsible for the impact on Ms Y as they have 
done nothing wrong here.
Reasons
Ms Y wants to know the reasons why the bank blocked and subsequently closed the 
account. She also wanted the bank to provide her with prior notice of the block and the 
closure.
I appreciate having an account blocked and later closed is extremely inconvenient. Ms Y has 
told us she had to rearrange her Direct debits and she missed one of her regular payments. 
Despite this the bank is entitled to block and close Ms Ys account and they are not obliged 
to give her a reason or provide her with notice of their intention.
In summary having looked at the evidence I cant say HSBC acted unfairly when it reviewed, 
blocked and later closed Ms Ys accounts. And although Ms Y had to rearrange her DDs and 
she was concerned about missed payments to her loan and credit card, I wont be awarding 
compensation because HSBC are entitled to send the closing balance by cheque. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman