DRN-2691478
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) continued to take
credit card payments when no payments were due on the card.  
What happened
In May 2020, there was a small balance owing on Mrs Ws credit card which M&S took by
direct debit toward the end of the month. This left the account with a zero balance. But in
June 2020, M&S wrote to Mrs W advising that her account was in arrears.
Mrs W contacted M&S about this and was told that there was a technical issue with the
direct debit set up on her account which M&S were in the process of fixing. M&S offered Mrs
W £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused, which Mrs W accepted.
However, when Mrs W received her July statement for the M&S credit card account it
showed that additional payments had been taken against her account when no money was
owing. Mrs W contacted M&S about this, and ultimately raised a complaint in September
2020 when the issue wasnt resolved to her satisfaction.
M&S looked at Mrs Ws complaint and agreed that an error had occurred. M&S offered Mrs
W a further £100 compensation because of this and agreed to reimburse the payments that
had been incorrectly taken.
Mrs W wasnt satisfied with M&Ss response and didnt think that the compensation amount
went far enough, especially as the reimbursements promised by M&S hadnt been credited
back to her account. So, she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this account. They felt that the spirit of M&Ss complaint
response was a fair one, and that M&S making the reimbursements that they had promised
to make, as well as two compensation payments totalling £150, represented a fair and
reasonable outcome to the complaint. So, they liaised with M&S to ensure that the promised
reimbursements were made, but then didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint on the basis that a
fair outcome had already been reached.
Mrs W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 March 2021 as follows:
M&S dont dispute that errors occurred with regard the payments taken incorrectly 
from Mrs Ws account and have acknowledged that action needed to be taken to 
restore Mrs Ws account to the position it would have been in had the payments not 
been taken. M&S have also acknowledged that an amount of compensation should 
be paid to Mrs W for the inconvenience that this ongoing matter has caused her.
I agree that the spirit of M&Ss complaint response is a fair and reasonable one here, 
and had it been the case that this response had been implemented when M&S had 
first said that it would be, then it is likely that I would consider that a fair outcome to 
this complaint had already been reached.
However, M&S didnt make the reimbursements that they promised to Mrs W, and it 
was only when the matter was investigated by this service that M&S discovered that 
these reimbursements were still outstanding and took the action necessary to correct 
this. And I can understand, in consideration of this point, how frustrating this ongoing 
issue must have been for Mrs W.
Im aware that Mrs W has questioned whether the reimbursements that have now 
been made to her account are correct. But from the information I have available to 
me Im satisfied that the reimbursements applied to her account by M&S do 
represent a returning of her account to this position that it should be in, had the 
payments incorrectly taken by M&S not been taken. It follows from this that Im 
satisfied that the necessary corrective action has now been taken by M&S.
However, given that M&S didnt implement this corrective action when they said they 
would, I feel that additional compensation should be paid to Mrs W for the additional 
inconvenience she has incurred because of this.
Compensation is always a subjective issue, and an amount considered fair by one 
person might not be considered so by another. And as mentioned previously, had it 
been the case that M&S had implemented the actions promised in their complaint 
response in a timely manner, I would have considered that response, including the 
compensation amounts already paid, to have been a fair and reasonable one. So, 
given the additional inconvenience that Mrs W has incurred, I feel that M&S should 
make a payment of a further £100 to Mrs W because of this.
Both Mrs W and M&S have since responded to this service and advised that they accept my 
provisional decision. So, I will be upholding this complaint on that basis.  
Putting things right
M&S should make a further payment of £100 to Mrs W in addition to the compensation 
payments totalling £150 that M&S have already paid.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc on the basis 
explained above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman