DRN-3347804
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) handled a 
claim he asked it to meet under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) in 
respect of a holiday he paid for using his Barclaycard credit card. 
What happened
Mr G booked a package holiday to New York for himself and another in November 2019 with 
a supplier I shall call T to depart in March 2020. He paid £1,782.36 using his Barclaycard 
credit card. Mr G also arranged and paid for a number of separate excursions that he 
intended to take while on his holiday. 
In February 2020, Mr G asked Barclaycard to help him with a dispute he had with the 
supplier as he said the accommodation had been misdescribed. He said Ts description of 
the accommodation hed booked said it had a swimming pool, but hed since discovered 
there would be no pool. Mr G received a refund of £300 as a result. 
In March 2020, T told Mr G that it would have to cancel his holiday. It explained that a full 
refund of £1,782.36 would be paid to him. 
By late April 2020, Mr G hadnt received his refund so he asked Barclaycard to help him get 
one, along with a refund for the various excursions hed booked. He said that because hed 
booked a package holiday, certain terms were implied into his contract with T by the 
Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR). He said that one 
of these terms was that T had to pay him a refund within 14 days if it terminated the 
package. He said T was in breach of contract for failing to do this and he said Barclaycard 
was jointly liable for this under Section 75. 
In June 2020, while Barclaycard was looking into Mr Gs claim, T paid him the full refund it 
had promised.
Mr G said Barclaycard should pay him interest on the cost of the holiday in line with what a 
court would have awarded i.e. 8% simple per year from the 14th day after the termination of 
his holiday by T until the day he received a refund from it on 1 June 2020. He also wanted 
damages for breach of contract of £200 and compensation of £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience Barclaycard caused him in its handling of his claim. 
In response to Mr Gs complaint, Barclaycard explained to him that hed already received 
£300 in February 2020 as well as a full refund for the cost of the holiday in June 2020. So, it 
considered these sums covered what Mr G sought from it. It said it didnt think its handling of 
the claim warranted additional compensation. Barclaycard also said that a combination of 
supplier refunds and goodwill gestures from it meant all the additional excursions hed 
booked had also been refunded. 
Dissatisfied with this response Mr G brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. He said there was also one excursion refund that he had not received. He also 
thought that Barclaycard hadnt fully remedied the breach of contract in relation to T failing to 
refund him within 14 days. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She said Barclaycard wasnt 
responsible for the time it took T to provide a refund. She also said that Mr G had already 
received a refund for the excursion he said he hadnt received. 
Mr G disagreed with the investigator. He said it was clear that T was in breach of the implied 
term in its contract that a refund should be provided no later than 14 days after the 
termination of the package and that Section 75 clearly makes Barclaycard liable for this 
breach. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an 
equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. This is also subject to certain criteria 
such as the transaction has to be within defined financial limits and a debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship needs to be made out. From what I have seen the necessary criteria have been 
met.
Mr G has now received a full refund of the cost of the holiday from T and from what Ive seen 
it appears hes also had a refund of the cost of the excursion he originally told us he hadnt 
received. I say this because his credit card statements show this amount has been returned 
to him and because this doesnt appear to be in dispute any longer. 
Ive considered what Mr G has said about Ts failure to provide a refund within 14 days of it 
cancelling Mr Gs holiday. And Ive thought about whether Barclaycard needs to do anything 
further in this respect. 
The PTR implies certain terms into a package travel contract. One of those terms is that an 
organiser (T in this case) may terminate a package and provide a full refund where it is 
prevented from performing the contract because of unavoidable and extraordinary 
circumstances. And where it does this, there is also an implied term that the organiser must 
pay any refund not later than 14 days after the package travel contract is terminated. 
Mr G said T breached its contract with him by failing to pay a refund within this timescale. He 
said his loss as a result of the breach comes from the fact he didnt receive his refund as 
soon as he should have. He says a court would have awarded interest of 8% simple per year 
on this amount up until the point he received his refund from T so Barclaycard is liable to him 
for this. 
In deciding Mr Gs complaint, I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances. While this includes consideration of Barclaycards liability to Mr G under 
Section 75, I find it relevant here that Mr G received a refund of £300 earlier in 2020 as well 
as a full refund from T of £1,782.36 in June 2020. So, he is in effect £300 better off for a 
holiday he never went on.
Mr G said this payment was for a different loss on an entirely separate claim and reflected 
the fact that a similar booking, with a swimming pool would have cost more at the point the 
service was due to be delivered. He said its not fair that this sum is taken into account when 
looking at a separate breach of contract. I understand what Mr G is saying here and it is entirely possible that a court would have 
awarded something else should it have found there was a breach of contract. But in respect 
of Mr Gs complaint against Barclaycard, I think it is fair and reasonable to take into account 
the fact Mr G has already received reimbursement in excess of the price paid for the holiday 
and in excess of the sum he is claiming. So, even if I were to conclude there had been a 
breach of contract here, I think the position Mr G finds himself in means it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to ask Barclaycard to pay him what he asked for. 
Ive thought about Barclaycards overall handling of Mr Gs request for a refund. At the point 
Mr G received his refund from T, Barclaycard still hadnt completed its investigation of his 
claim. This was around eight weeks after Mr G had raised it. I remind myself however that 
these were unprecedented times, and banks were having to deal with significant numbers of 
enquiries from consumers looking to get money back as the global pandemic unfolded as 
well as deal with the operational challenges this presented. 
I also keep in mind that Barclaycard helped Mr G obtain refunds for some of the additional 
excursions he paid for and has said it paid some of these as gesture of goodwill. Mr G may 
well have been entitled to refunds of these transactions anyway, but I think it still shows 
Barclaycard was proactive with the assistance it gave Mr G. There does not appear to be 
any dispute that Mr G has received what he asked for in respect of these excursions. 
Overall, and with everything considered, I dont think Barclaycard needs to compensate Mr 
G for its handling of his request for a refund.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman