DRN-2235585
The complaint
Mr L complains Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to inform him that there was an outstanding 
balance on his loan account. He feels this is unfair as it has adversely impacted his credit 
file.
What happened
Mr L took out a loan with Barclays in February 2015. The repayment terms state a monthly 
payment of £186.99 should be paid for 36 months, starting from one month after the loan 
was opened. When the loan was originally set up the repayment dates were in the middle of 
the month. On 9 January 2017, Mr L requested to change the payment date from 18 January 
2017 to 1 February 2017 and for the first of every month going forward. This change meant 
that additional interest was incurred which would be applied at the end of the loan period. 
Barclays says it sent Mr L a letter on 14 April 2018, which stated a final payment of £15.42 
was due on 1 May 2018. Although the letter was addressed to Mr Ls address Mr L says he 
didnt receive it. Barclays also says it sent a loan statements in March 2019 and March 2020 
informing Mr L that he had an outstanding balance. Despite this Mr L says he wasnt aware 
of the outstanding balance until he saw it on his credit file. He doesnt understand why it 
wasnt showing on his mobile app. 
On 4 May 2020 Mr L contacted Barclays to query the outstanding balance on the loan. He 
was particularly confused as the loan wasnt showing on his mobile app.
Barclays issued a final response letter on 7 July 2020. It apologised to Mr L for not 
contacting him about the outstanding amount. To compensate him for the worry caused it 
said it had written off the debt and had also paid £50 to his current account.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She could appreciate that the 
balance of the loan was not showing on Mr Ls mobile app. But as Barclays had evidenced 
more than one letter was sent to Mr L, to inform him of the balance of his account. And as 
they were addressed to his current address, on balance, she was satisfied that it made him 
aware of the outstanding balance of his loan. She felt what Barclays had done following the 
complaint was a reasonable way to settle Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L disagrees. He insists he only found out about the outstanding balance because it has 
impacted his credit score. He does not think one letter which he never received is enough 
along with no cost on a banking app for over two years is a valid reason to impact 
someones credit score negatively. Barclays has admitted its error but £50 and removing a 
charge he was never aware of isnt a fair amount for the error made in impacting someones 
credit. He also says Barclays was also in charge of the payments being made, it setup the 
standing order for the payments to be collected, which he paid every month for three years 
of £189. It is not his fault that it did not collect the final £15 from him and only attempted to 
contact him once regarding this. He insists if he had been told about the amount, he owed 
he would have paid it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ls frustration here. He thought he had paid off his loan, but a small 
amount remained owed of which he was unaware and now he says he has a negative mark 
on his credit file because of it. It seems the amount owed was so low that Barclays didnt 
bother to chase for payment but just sent him annual statements. 
Barclays has provided evidence it did send him details of what he owed three times. Mr L 
says he didnt receive this post and that he is unaware of any problem with his post 
generally. On balance, I think it is most likely he did receive the April 2018 letter, but he 
didnt read it properly. I think the same thing happened when the March 2019 and March 
2020 statements were sent. I appreciate Mr L feels Barclays should have taken the payment 
and that it should have chased him, but I think the April 2018 letter was clear that he needed 
to arrange for payment. I think it would have been helpful if Barclays had chased him more 
as then Mr L may have realised that he was mistaken in his belief that hed paid off the loan. 
Barclays response to his complaint was I think a fair response to the fact that it could have 
done more. I wont be asking it to do anything more.
I havent seen any evidence that what Barclays has reported to the credit reference agencies 
is untrue and so I wont be ordering it to change what has been reported. Mr L can ask for a 
notice of correction to be put on his file to explain what happened to other lenders as more 
context may be helpful to him and them.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman