DRN-3052237
The complaint
 Ms K complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Ms K is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around February 2014, Ms K was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Ms K decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In March 2017 Ms K complained to P and made a claim under section 75 of the act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Ms K to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost was documented as £7,218.00 but the actual cost to Ms K was 
£14,142.60 including interest. The cost was listed as a lower amount to mislead 
Ms K; 
Ms K was promised a tax-free year one benefit of £817.87; 
the loan agreement would be self-funded by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) 
payments; 
Ms Ks electricity bills would reduce annually but this wasnt the case; and
Ms K thought that the agreement had a 5-year term.
In its final response letter Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information it held on file, as 
well as information provided by P, that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to 
Ms K or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. In summary, it said:
the contract P had provided Ms K set out the expected total returns from the system 
and this, alongside the finance agreement, made it clear that the system was not 
self-funding immediately and that there would be a cost involved; and
the contract with P showed that the total cash price of the panels was £7,218.00 but 
the total amount payable after interest was added to the loan was £14,142.60.
Unhappy with this response, Ms K referred the complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Their initial assessment explained 
that they thought the point of sale documentation made it clear that the system would not be 
self-funding. 
The CMC responded to this and explained that they thought the personal quotation 
documentation was generated post-purchase. They explained the quotation that has been 
provided states that P were a member of The Home Insulation and Energy Systems Quality 
Assured Contractors Scheme (HIES). Ms K signed her contract on 20 February 2014 and 
P were not a member of HIES until 27 February 2014.
The investigator reconsidered their assessment and asked Shawbrook to provide evidence 
of when the quote was sent to Ms K. Shawbrook did not respond so the investigator 
completed their assessment based on the information provided. They concluded that, the 
evidence provided on this specific case showed that the quotation was generated at least a 
week following the initial sales meeting. Therefore, Ms K was not provided with a 
comparison between the costs and the benefits of the system prior to entering into the 
contract and thought that the case should be upheld.
Shawbrook and the CMC did not respond, so the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have 
a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly 
and severally liable to the debtor.
As Ms K paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Ms K could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Ms K and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There is a disagreement between the CMC and Shawbrook about what documentation was 
provided to Ms K at the point of sale. Shawbrook have provided the personal quotation document that they believe was provided 
to Ms K at the point of sale. The document has not been signed by Ms K. The CMC 
explained that P were not a member of HIES at the point of sale but the quotation states that 
they are an accredited member. They believe that this indicates that the quotation as 
generated post purchase.
Based on the evidence that I have available, I cant be satisfied that the personal quotation 
was sent to Ms K or that she saw a copy of the contents prior to entering the agreement. 
Therefore, I have disregarded this documented when reaching my final decision.
I have therefore based my decision on the other documentation including the handwritten 
contract and loan agreement.
Self-funding
Ms K has alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by her FIT payments. Ive considered the hand-written contract that was provided by 
P and considered whether this supports what she says she was told as I consider the 
contract was central to the sales presentation.
Ms K has provided a witness statement with her recollections of what happened at the point 
of sale. She explains that her main reason for purchasing the panels was due to the income 
that they would generate. P told her that she would make more that the cost of the loan 
repayments and this was why she purchased the system. I have no reason to doubt what 
shes told us.
Ms K also explained that she repaid the Shawbrook loan using a credit card with a lower 
interest rate. The handwritten contract set out some of the key figures and I have included a 
couple of extracts below:
The contract explains that the estimated total returns in year one is £817.87 but there is no 
comparison to the cost over the same period. The total price is documented as £7,218 and 
there is no mention of the interest that has been added on to this amount. Therefore, it is not 
possible for Ms K to compare the benefits to the cost by looking at this document.
Ms K did also sign the credit agreement, which set out the monthly repayments and the total 
sum repayable. But, without it being made clearer, I dont think it would be reasonable to 
expect Ms K compare the figures in the various paperwork and realise that the panels would 
not be self-funding. I think that this means its likely that Ms K would have relied heavily on 
the verbal representations made by P at the point of sale.
I think the financial benefits of the system were one of the main factors for Ms K when she 
was deciding whether to purchase the panels. Therefore, I think that the representations 
most likely made by P in relation to the system being self-funding would have induced Ms K 
to purchase the system.
The annual loan repayments total £942.84 and the estimated benefits over the same period 
are £817.87 therefore its likely that the panels are not self-funding. Ill go on to explain what 
I think fair compensation should be in this case.
Putting things right
Our role is to resolve individual disputes between consumers and businesses fairly, 
reasonably, quickly and informally. Determining fair compensation is not always an exact 
science and it is more difficult in a case like this where solar panels have been installed at 
the property.
Ive considered if its fair to unwind the credit agreement, remove the solar panels and give 
Ms K a refund of all the payments made (less any financial benefit gained from the 
installation of the solar panels). But I think it may be disproportionate to do this when the 
panels are working and generating green energy. I think theres an alternative that would put 
Ms K in a fair position.
In this case, I think fair compensation is trying to make sure that Ms K doesnt suffer a 
financial loss, which in my view would mean that the solar panel system should be cost 
neutral over the 15-year loan term  in summary, my aim is to make sure that total outgoings 
(including the monthly loan repayments) are equal to any income and savings that the 
panels generate.
So, I think to put things right Shawbrook should recalculate the original loan based on the 
known and assumed savings and income to Ms K from the solar panels over the 15-year 
term of the loan, so they pay no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel system. This 
will put Ms K in a cost neutral position over the loan term, meaning that shes not 
disadvantaged by the mis-representation.
Ms K has settled her Shawbrook loan by taking out a credit card with a lower interest rate. I 
think that Shawbrook needs to make sure that, including the sums payable on the credit card 
in relation to this debt, Ms K pays no more than what the benefits will be over the 15-year 
term of the loan.I think the fairest way for Shawbrook to put things right is to:
1. Refund the extra Ms K paid each month with the Shawbrook loan; 
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms K receives her refund; 
3. Refund the extra Ms K paid with the credit card; 
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms K receives her refund; 
and
5. Pay Ms K the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding.
Shawbrook should also pay Ms K £100 to recognise the trouble and upset caused to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ks complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should put 
things right in the manner set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman