DRN-3277211
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as T complained about a claim decision, reached by AXA Insurance 
UK Plc, under its retail business insurance policy, and the way they handled it. 
Mr A, a director of T, has complained on Ts behalf. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to all parties. Therefore, rather than 
repeating in detail what happened, instead Ill summarise my understanding and focus on 
what I consider to be materially relevant to the complaint. 
Ts property caught fire in May 2020 which caused damage, so it raised a claim with AXA. 
AXA appointed a loss adjuster, but concerns were raised regarding the information provided 
to them by T. So, AXA requested further information from T. 
Throughout the claim, AXA raised several concerns to T  who appointed a loss assessor to 
handle the claim on its behalf. AXA were initially considering whether to avoid the policy, but 
they made a decision on the claim instead. 
AXA appointed a forensic expert who said the most likely cause of the fire was due to the 
deep fat fryer oil overheating. And CCTV footage from Ts property had shown the fryer was 
left unattended when the fire started. They said Ts employee  who was responsible for 
attending the fryer whilst in operation  was seen to be standing just outside a fire exit using 
their phone, with their back to the fryer when the fire started. AXA referred to the policy and 
said T had breached a condition precedent by leaving the fryer unattended during its 
operation, as such they declined Ts claim. 
T didnt agree. It raised an initial complaint with AXA regarding the overall handling of the 
claim. It said it thought AXA were looking for ways to decline the claim and not pay out. It 
said AXA had a copy of the CCTV footage early on in the claim, and it took them until March 
2021 to decline it, relying on the footage and policy terms. T said AXA delayed the claim 
unreasonably and reached an unfair decision. 
In respect of the claim decision, T responded to say the policy doesnt define the term 
attended. It said an employee was stood within close proximity of the fryer in the kitchen at 
the time of ignition  no more than a few metres away. T said its reasonable to interpret the 
term attended as being present, which it says an employee was, which can be seen within 
the CCTV footage. T also said the policy doesnt say an employee must be standing facing 
the fryer for the condition to be met. 
T also said that, even if the fryer was unattended, the fire started due to a mechanical fault 
and not due to the oil overheating. Therefore, the policy condition AXA relied on to decline 
the claim was immaterial. As T remained unhappy, it complained. 
AXA responded to the complaints T raised regarding the handling and claim decision. They 
said they had reasonable concerns regarding the information provided to them by T, and it 
was appropriate to investigate this. They also maintained their decision regarding the claim. 
As T thought AXA had acted unfairly, it brought the complaint to our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint. She felt AXA had declined the claim fairly as 
she also thought the fryer was unattended at the time the fire started, based on the CCTV 
footage. She didnt think Ts employee was able to intervene given she had her back to the 
fryer and her attention was elsewhere. 
Our investigator considered Ts argument regarding the cause of the fire, which it considered 
to be due to a mechanical failure. But she said there was a lack evidence to show this being 
the cause. And in any event, the policy condition precedent AXA relied on to decline the 
claim wasnt limited to fires caused by oil overheating. 
She did however think AXA had caused some delays and recommended they apologise to T 
for this. 
AXA accepted our investigators view, but T didnt. 
T responded with further information. It provided photographs to demonstrate the distance 
between the fryer and where its employee was standing at the time the fire occurred. It 
thought this demonstrated the fryer was being attended by an employee given the short 
distance between the two. Our investigator considered this but didnt change her view. As 
such, T requested that an ombudsman considers the complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A key finding I need to make is whether I think AXA reached a fair and reasonable outcome 
on the claim based on the evidence Ive seen. And having done so, whilst I appreciate this 
will come as a considerable disappointment to T, I think they did. Ill explain why. 
Ill now refer to the policy, which says: 
15c  KITCHEN CONDITION 
In respect of all sections of this policy it is a condition precedent to any liability of 
Insurers to make any payment where there is a kitchen facility or cooking equipment 
in operation that: 
1. The insured will provide one portable fire extinguisher which is foam or dry 
powder based, one portable extinguisher which is water based and one fire 
blanket and that these shall be maintained in effective working order, kept in 
close proximity to the cooking equipment and serviced annually by a specialist 
contractor. 
2. The cooking equipment is attended at all times during its operation. 
The dispute present is whether Ts employee attended the fryer at all times during its 
operation. T thinks, given the employee was standing only a few metres from the fryer at the 
time it likely caused a fire, they were present and therefore the condition precedent cited 
above wasnt breached. To support this, it provided photographs showing the distance 
between the fire exit (where the employee was standing) and where the fryer was situated. Whereas, AXA says, the employee could be seen on their phone with their back to the fryer 
in CCTV footage, when the fire most likely started. Therefore, they say it was unattended 
whilst in operation. 
Ive given very careful consideration to the submissions made by both T and AXA, and also 
viewed the CCTV footage. Overall, Im satisfied its fair to conclude that being attended 
means that someone would need to in a position to interfere if something went wrong. 
In this case, the employee  said to have been responsible for the fryer whilst in operation  
can be seen on the CCTV footage just outside the fire exit walkway (as the outside camera 
picked them up), on their phone. I didnt witness the employee observe the fryer for the 
period they were shown on the CCTV footage. When the employee did turn around after 
approximately 11 minutes, its most likely this was when they first noticed there was an 
issue. I say this because it appears the employee rushes into the kitchen, and another 
person is then seen exiting from the same point, holding an item which is on fire. 
I do understand Ts argument here. It thinks, given the employee was standing only a few 
metres away from the fryer, this means they were in close proximity, and therefore attending 
it. Having seen the photos T provided, whilst I agree there is only a few metres distance 
between the two, Im not satisfied this is strong enough evidence to persuade me to agree 
AXAs claim decision was unfair. 
I dont think this can reasonably be considered as someone attending the fryer at all times 
during its operation. I find that the intention of this condition precedent is to ensure any 
cooking equipment is attended at all times, importantly, so someone can interfere if an issue 
arises. That wasnt the case here. The CCTV footage, in my view, shows the fryer wasnt 
being attended at all times during its operation. 
The expert report dated June 2020 that reported on the fire says when there is a period of oil 
overheating, it is evidenced by smoke, and if noticed, a fire can be averted by switching off 
the fryer. Had the employee responsible for attending the fryer been in a position to interfere, 
I think they could have acted to mitigate the loss that unfortunately occurred here. So, on 
balance, if the breach of the condition precedent hadnt occurred, I think this could have 
made a difference to the outcome of the claim. 
I note T argued the fire was caused by a mechanical failure rather than the cooking oil 
overheating. However, I havent seen any strong persuasive evidence to agree this 
conclusion is what happened. And in any event, the condition precedent would still apply 
under these circumstances, so I dont think this makes a material difference to the outcome 
of the claim. The fryer needed to be attended at all times whilst in operation, and Im 
satisfied AXA have reasonably demonstrated it wasnt. 
The other aspect complained about by T was how things were handled by AXA. Ive 
considered the overall handling of the claim, and whilst I do accept there were unavoidable 
delays, there were periods where AXA could have handled things better. I accept an insurer 
has the right to investigate concerns they may have, and I note AXA said here they were 
unable to make a decision on the claim without first making enquiries into the information 
provided by T. But there were periods where Ts loss assessor had to chase for updates, 
and some delays were experienced which I think on balance could have been avoided. 
Our investigator set out some of the examples of where she felt AXA could have handled 
things better, so I wont go on to repeat these here. What I have gone on to consider is 
whether these delays had an impact on T financially or caused unreasonable inconvenience 
 over and above whats naturally expected following a fire claim. Having done so, I havent seen strong supporting evidence which demonstrates T 
experienced a direct financial loss due to these delays. Nor do I think T would have been in 
a substantially better position had AXA declined the claim sooner than they did, but for these 
delays. I note T instructed a loss assessor to handle things on its behalf, which would have 
somewhat removed the impact of the additional inconvenience these delays caused. 
Overall, I agree a written apology from AXA to T for these delays is a fair and reasonable 
way to put matters right in respect of this aspect of the complaint. So, Ill be directing them to 
do this if they havent already done so. 
I accept my decision will come as a considerable disappointment to T. But my decision ends 
what we  in attempting to resolve its dispute with AXA  can do for it. 
Putting things right
If they havent already done so, AXA Insurance UK Plc must issue a written apology to T 
recognising the delays caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I now require AXA Insurance UK Plc to resolve 
matters as set out under the heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman