DRN-2352858
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as D complains that Starling Bank Limited didnt deal fairly 
with its request to borrow additional funds under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme.
Mr S is Ds director and brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
D took out a loan with Starling under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme in May 2020. Its 
application for £17,000 on 11 May was approved and the loan was credited within 24 hours.
On 15 May, Mr S contacted Starling with a view to increasing the loan to £30,000. Starling 
logged the request with its specialist team and, the following day, updated Mr S to the effect 
that it was working around the clock to support alterations to agreed/paid loans.
Over the following fortnight, Mr S was in touch with Starling on a number of occasions to 
chase up progress on his request, which included raising a complaint. He also requested to 
speak to someone about the possible insolvency of his business.
Starling said that the only way it could amend the loan amount would be to cancel the 
existing loan, recall the funds and start a new application for the revised amount. But D 
wasnt in a position to do that, as the funds had already been utilised. Mr S suggested that 
Starling lend £17,000 to D outside of the Scheme, so that it could repay and cancel the 
existing loan, and then apply for a new loan of £30,000.
On 29 May, Starling sent Mr S its final response to the complaint. It said it had tried to 
support the request but reiterated that the only available solution was to cancel the loan and 
reapply  which unfortunately wasnt something D could do. The option to top up wasnt a 
feature of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and only one loan could be given. And Starling 
couldnt offer any other lending, as Mr S had suggested, because it was only offering lending 
under the Government-backed schemes.
Starling accepted that it hadnt always called Mr S back as it had promised  in particular in 
respect of Mr Ss concerns about Ds solvency  or responded to his queries as quickly as it 
wouldve liked. It apologised for the trouble this had caused and sent D £50. 
Mr S remained unhappy, and referred the complaint to us. He didnt think £50 was a fair 
reflection of the amount of time and effort hed spent on the matter, and thought £500 would 
be more appropriate.
One of our investigators looked into Ds complaint but didnt recommend that Starling take 
any further action. She said, in summary, that:
While there had recently been some changes to the Scheme rules, at the time of Ds 
enquiry it wasnt possible to have more than one loan or to increase an existing loan. 
She thought that had been explained in the loan application form and on Starlings 
website.
Ds enquiry had come during the early days of the Scheme, and Starling was trying to 
be helpful in exploring what it could do to help  even if, in hindsight, it mightve been 
simpler just to decline the request for a top-up loan outright. But ultimately, the 
Scheme rules prevented Starling from arranging a top-up to Ds Bounce Back Loan.
Starling had also stopped other types of lending  but while appreciating this had left 
D in a difficult position, she thought that was a decision it had been entitled to make. 
She didnt think Starling had misled Mr S into thinking it might be able to 
accommodate the request. While it hadnt always been able to give instant answers, 
she didnt think this was unreasonable in the circumstances. Overall, she thought that 
it had dealt with him promptly and kept him updated.
Starling had already acknowledged that it had failed to relay Mr Ss request to 
discuss his concerns about Ds solvency to the relevant team. But she thought the 
£50 it had already paid D was fair compensation for any inconvenience that the delay 
in picking this up had caused.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. In particular, he said that Starling had breached 
the principles set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So he 
asked that an ombudsman review the complaint, and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should firstly explain that, while Ive noted Mr Ss references to the FCA principles, it is not 
our role to determine whether a financial business has (or hasnt) adhered to these. But Ive 
borne the requirements in mind when considering whether Starling did anything wrong.
When Mr S made his request in May, it wasnt possible to obtain a second Bounce Back 
Loan or top up an existing one under the rules of the Scheme. The option to top up an 
existing loan was only introduced in November. So I dont think that Starling did anything 
wrong in declining to offer D the additional loan it wanted through the Scheme. 
As Starling had suspended its lending outside of the loan schemes, it was also unable to 
offer D an alternative solution in the manner Mr S suggested. I think this decision was for 
Starling to make, and in the circumstances wasnt unreasonable.
Like our investigator, I can appreciate that  with the benefit of hindsight  it mightve saved 
Mr S some trouble if Starling had declined the request at the outset. Mr S was 
understandably frustrated that, after spending a significant amount of time and energy in 
pursuing the matter with Starling, he was still left unable to access the additional funds he 
wanted. But at the time, the Scheme was still very new  it had only been running for about a fortnight, having been set up at short notice  so I think Starling was right to explore what it 
might be able to do to help D. That, understandably, took a little time.
Starling has accepted that  on occasion  it didnt get back to Mr S as quickly as it wouldve 
liked. But, overall, I think Starling responded to Mr Ss request within a reasonable period of 
time, particularly in the circumstances. Mr S first enquired about additional borrowing on 
15 May. By 18 May, Starling had told him that the solution it could offer was to cancel the 
original loan  but that wasnt viable for D. And by 29 May  so within two weeks of the 
request  Starling had confirmed that it was unable to offer a top-up loan or any other form of 
borrowing to D. 
I can see that Mr S had a number of conversations with Starling during that two-week period. 
For the most part, I think Starling responded to him promptly and updated him as best it 
could at any given time. At the outset, Starling explained that it was looking into the issue 
and would be in touch when it had an update. When Mr S chased things up, the advisers he 
spoke with apologised for the delay and reassured him that the request was being looked 
into by the relevant team, who would be in touch as soon as possible. And I think it clearly 
communicated the necessary information to Mr S throughout.
So, while I appreciate the additional borrowing request was stressful for Mr S and that he 
spent a lot of time chasing it up with Starling, I dont think any inconvenience that D 
experienced was the result of errors on Starlings part.
Alongside Mr Ss request for additional borrowing, he also wanted to speak to Starling about 
concerns over the solvency of D if it couldnt obtain a further loan. Starling has already 
accepted that his request for a call wasnt passed on to the appropriate team as it shouldve 
been. So D was put to some inconvenience in having to chase this up over a short period. 
But I think the £50 Starling has already paid is fair compensation for this  so Im not 
requiring it to take any further action to settle this complaint.
As noted above, changes to the Scheme rules in November mean that borrowers can now 
apply for a top-up to an existing Bounce Back Loan. So D may wish to discuss this with 
Starling, if it is still looking for additional borrowing.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman