DRN-1939735
 
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that a mortgage he applied for through Enness Limited was declined by the
lender. He said he wants the £750 broker fee he'd paid to Enness back.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in May 2020 and in that I explained why I wasn't minded to 
uphold Mr B's complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before 
I reached a final decision. Enness had nothing further to add. Mr B disagreed with my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reviewed all the submissions carefully, and considered the case afresh, but my opinion 
hasnt changed. Although Ive read and considered everything Mr B has said in response to 
my provisional decision, I wont be responding to every point individually. If I dont comment 
on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome
This service is impartial between, and independent of, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions on how a complaint will be looked at. We're not a consumer champion and I 
can only uphold Mr B's complaint if I feel Enness did something wrong. It's not my role to try 
to change the wording used by - and behaviour of - companies. Instead I look at individual 
disputes and reach a decision of whether or not the business did something wrong.
Mr B has sent a lengthy response - with enclosures - to my provisional decision. As I said I 
won't be responding to every point individually if it doesn't alter the outcome of the complaint.
Mr B has said he didn't sign an application form for the mortgage, but it was clear to all the 
parties involved that Mr B wanted this mortgage, and that a mortgage offer would be 
produced if the lender was happy with everything. As I said in my provisional decision, this 
lender offered a bespoke service which involved meeting with potential mortgage borrowers. 
Having reviewed all the correspondence I'm satisfied this was being treated by all parties 
involved as a mortgage application having been made by Mr B to the lender (via Enness), 
and at that point Enness' broker fee became due.
Mr B said he didn't sign the fee agreement and wouldn't have agreed to pay the fee unless 
he was certain he'd get the mortgage. He's pointed to various emails from Enness that he 
says indicates he'd get the mortgage, rather than saying it was subject to the lender's 
approval.
I've considered these points carefully but I'm not persuaded by them. Enness provided the 
fee agreement to Mr B (albeit he didn't sign it) and that clearly stated the fee was 
non-refundable. And as I explained in my provisional decision I'm satisfied the fact Mr B 
didn't sign the agreement doesn't matter because there's no regulatory requirement for the 
fee agreement to be signed. I'm satisfied the fee agreement was provided to Mr B and that 
he went on to pay the fee, therefore he's bound by the terms of the fee agreement.
Whilst Enness didn't say the mortgage was still subject to approval it also didn't say it was 
guaranteed either. The broker was very positive about things, but that was based on the 
conversations he'd had with the lender which was willing to proceed after being made aware 
of all the facts as the broker knew them (including Mr B's circumstances and the full details 
of the property). Enness had no reason to believe this mortgage wouldn't go through. Its 
clear from the correspondence that Mr B knew there may be issues with the property, so it 
would seem from that he knew the mortgage wasnt guaranteed to be granted.
Mr B has made it clear in his recent submissions that this was his perfect family home, and I 
know he undertook a lot of work himself to try to resolve the issues with the property. 
Keeping that in mind I'm satisfied - on balance - that even if Enness' language had been 
slightly less robust (perhaps just saying the lender was happy with everything provided so 
far) Mr B would still have wanted to proceed with this mortgage as he was desperate to buy 
the property.
Mr B simply couldn't have proceeded with the mortgage without paying Enness' £750 fee. 
And if there had been a choice of definitely no mortgage (and therefore no property as there 
wasn't time to arrange a mortgage elsewhere by then) or a strong chance, but no 
guarantee, of a mortgage (and therefore being able to buy the property) then I'm satisfied 
that Mr B - on the balance of probabilities - would have opted to pay the £750 fee.
Mr B may well say he wouldn't have made that choice, but that will be his thoughts now with 
the benefit of hindsight (as he didn't get the property). Having considered everything I think it 
most likely (which is the test I must use) that Mr B would have opted to pay the fee in those 
circumstances, ie for the chance he'd be able to obtain a mortgage to buy the property he 
wanted.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I can only consider the acts and omissions of 
Enness in this decision. And having done so I'm satisfied Enness didn't know this application 
wouldn't be successful at the time Mr B paid the fee as all the information it received from 
the other parties involved - the lender and Mr B - indicated there shouldn't be a problem. For 
that reason I make no order or award.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman