DRN-2569249
The complaint
Miss M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC incorrectly registered a default on her 
credit file.
What happened
Miss M didnt make payments on her Tesco credit card for a period of four months, which led 
to arrears accumulating. Tesco sent Miss M correspondence regarding the arrears position, 
so she contacted Tesco on 10 March 2020. Miss M set up a promise to pay arrangement 
with Tesco to clear the arrears of £549.22. It was agreed that the full arrears needed to be 
paid by 31 March 2020.
Miss M says she rang Tesco from a work telephone line on 23 March 2020 and Tesco 
agreed to an extension of the promise to pay arrangement to 31 May 2020, as Miss M said 
her income would be delayed due to the pandemic. Miss M made a payment of £50 to 
reduce her arrears on 27 March 2020 and a payment of £50 to reduce her arrears on 3 April 
2020. Miss M applied for a payment holiday on 9 April 2020.
Tesco sent Miss M a default notice on 10 April 2020 which explained if the full arrears 
werent paid in 28 days then a default would be registered. As Tesco didnt hear back from 
Miss M they issued a termination letter on 7 May 2020 which said if Miss M didnt pay the 
arrears in full within five days then they would register a default. As the arrears werent paid 
in full Tesco registered a default. The account has since been settled.
Miss M complained to Tesco as she said they had arranged an extension of the promise to 
pay arrangement. She said she asked for a payment break on 9 April and although she had 
an automatic email response from Tesco, she had no further response to this request. She 
felt the default had been registered unfairly and wanted Tesco to remove the default from 
her credit file.
Tesco didnt uphold her complaint. They said that they had no record of any calls from Miss 
M on 23 March 2020. Tesco said that they wouldnt have been able to agree an extension to 
the promise to pay agreement as the account would have been without payment for four 
months by that point. They also said they wouldve been unable to agree to a payment 
holiday either due to the existing arrears.
Tesco explained that the default had been registered correctly in line with the terms and 
conditions of her account. Miss M didnt accept this so she brought her complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ms complaint. The investigator said Tesco reasonably 
made Miss M aware of the default and had a duty to report truthful and accurate information 
to credit reference agencies which is what they did. Miss M asked for her complaint to be 
passed to an Ombudsman as she said Tesco told her she needed the exact telephone 
number she rang from to trace her call on the 23 March and her wages in March were 
delayed due to the pandemic.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Miss M has said regarding the phone call she says she made on 23 
March 2020. I asked Tesco to provide me with system information which would show 
whether a call was made or not. While they can only trace a call if they had the telephone 
number Miss M rang from, this isnt the only way they can tell if somebody has spoken to 
them about their account.
Tesco provided me information which showed the activity on Miss Ms account. Tesco 
explained that it didnt matter what telephone number Miss M rang from because if Miss M 
spoke to them about her account it would leave a footprint on her account. But there was 
no activity like this recorded on her account around the 23 March.
In addition, Tesco said that they wouldnt have been able to grant an extension to the 
arrangement anyway, even if her wages were being paid late, given that Miss M hadnt 
made a payment to her account for four months.
That means that overall here, while Ive taken into account what Miss M has said about the 
call, I dont think the evidence suggests that its likely they did agree to an extension of the 
plan here. I havent seen anything to show that this is the case and Tesco has explained that 
even if there was a call, it would most likely not have granted an extension anyway. 
I also asked Tesco about Miss Ms application for a payment holiday due to her being 
affected financially from the pandemic with late wages. Tesco said although they had sent 
Miss M an email to say they would look into this, they would be unable to have offered a 
payment holiday as she was significantly in arrears. While it wouldve been fair for Tesco to 
contact Miss M to tell her that they couldnt offer the payment holiday and the reasons why, 
Im persuaded that this wouldnt have made a difference to the default being applied for the 
reasons already given.
With regards to the entries on her credit file, Tesco have a duty to report activity accurately 
to credit agencies and appear to have reported activity on this account accurately including 
registering a default. Tesco registered a default as Miss M was unable to make her monthly 
payments for a significant amount of time. I realise thatll have a significant impact on Miss M 
 but it wouldnt be fair for me to tell Tesco to remove information theyve recorded that 
accurately reflects the conduct of the account.
A default can only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least three 
months. A default was registered in May as the arrears hadnt been settled, in line with their 
process. Im satisfied Tesco have treated Miss M fairly by sending multiple letters explaining 
the arrears position and the consequences of not paying the arrears. Tescos also agreed to 
a promise to pay arrangement and when Miss M didnt make the agreed payment they gave 
her 28 days to pay the arrears. They also gave Miss M a further five days to pay the arrears 
when they sent the termination letter. 
So Im satisfied that Tesco have fulfilled their duty and registered the default correctly. it. But 
I cant say that Tesco have treated her unfairly for the reasons already given. So it follows 
that I wont be asking Tesco to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman