DRN-1887229
The complaint
Mr Us complaint is about his spread-bet trades (the trades) in the Spot Palladium (SP) 
market. His trades were conducted in his account with IG Markets Limited (IG). He held two 
lots of the SP trades, in short positions, beginning from around the middle of 2019. 
Mr U says IGs decision to delist SP from its platform in February 2020 is suspicious as it 
could have done so earlier (in 2019) for the same reason it gave (lack of liquidity/volatility); it 
was equally suspicious that the price movement was going against his trades up to the point 
he closed them (at unfavourable prices) then immediately thereafter the price moved in 
favour of the closed trades; that he was forced to close the second lot of trades because IG 
unfairly restricted trading in his account without prior notice to or consent from him; and that, 
overall, he suspects IG of disingenuous trading and pricing practices.
What happened
IG disputes the complaint and did not uphold it. Mr U then referred it to this service. One of 
our investigators considered it and concluded that it should not be upheld. In the main, she 
noted the following:
IGs position is that the delisting of SP was done because of market conditions; its 
spread was too wide due to market volatility, there was a lack of liquidity and it was 
cheaper to offer the Futures alternative of the market.
She had not seen evidence of the alleged lack of market liquidity, but she accepted 
that IG had a contractual right  set out in the terms for the account  to suspend 
trading in bets based on instruments that had also been suspended. As such, she did 
not consider it unfair or unreasonable that it had decided to delist SP.
IG emailed Mr U on 23 January 2020 to give him notice of the delisting on 7 February 
2020 and of the need to close his trades by then (or to roll them over as Futures 
contracts); IG failed to delist SP on 7 February and Mr Us trades continued 
thereafter  he had not closed them; IG made an error in this respect but it 
reasonably addressed it by granting account holders two further weeks  to close their 
SP related trades (at 7 February prices if they wished).
To address its error IG also restricted/stopped new trading in Mr Us account after 7 
February; this remained until his SP trades were closed; it was unfair for it to do this 
without prior notice to him but its action in this respect was balanced by it allowance 
of closures at 7 February prices.
She was not persuaded that the sequence of events made a difference to Mr Us 
closures of the SP trades; he had notice (from 23 January) of the delisting on 7 
February and the opportunity to close them by this date, but he did not; his 
explanation is that he did not wish to close the trades as he anticipated that the price 
movement could change in his favour; and he chose to wait until 27 February to 
complete closure of the trades. Mr U did not mitigate his position in the matter and is 
unlikely to have behaved differently if he was given notice of the restriction on new 
trading in the account.
She had not seen evidence of dubious pricing or trading practices by IG; its model 
matched opposing clients trades and used hedging to cover any remainder 
exposure; its model was also based on generating income through spreads and fees, 
not an accountholders loss; and there is no evidence of IG manipulating prices.
Mr U did not accept this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Us belief that IG conducted questionable pricing and trading practices in his case 
appears to be a strongly held, on his part. I also note that he has referred to other 
incidents/complaints, beyond the present complaint, in support of this view. My task is to 
determine the present compliant only, which is what has been referred to me, so the findings 
below do not extend to the other incidents/complaints Mr U has referred to. 
I address the allegation of malpractice first.
Like the investigator, I have not seen evidence of pricing and/or trading malpractice by IG in 
the present complaint. Its Summary Order Execution Policy (SOEP), relevant to spread-
bets, confirms that it operated as principal and market maker for the trading. This is nether in 
dispute nor controversial, it is a model commonly operated in the sector. Its practice of 
offsetting opposing account-holders trades and then hedging any remainder risk exposure is 
also not particularly controversial and is common in the sector. 
As market maker and given the over-the-counter nature of the trading, IGs trade prices were 
not required to be an exact match with the relevant underlying market, but they ought to 
have been reflective of the relevant underlying market. I have not seen evidence, in Mr Us 
case, that they were not. I appreciate that Mr U feels strongly that IGs pricing and/or trading 
practices were suspicious, but there is a lack of evidence to support it. No pricing or trading 
irregularities appear to have been evidenced in his claims and submissions. 
Mr U says the timing of IGs delisting of SP is suspicious. I understand his point. He says 
there was low liquidity in its market around the middle of 2019  or lower liquidity compared 
to early 2020  yet it was not delisted at the time; so he questions why IG decided to delist it 
in early 2020. Even if this is factually correct, it (alone) does not establish suspicious activity. 
There is no suggestion that IG was obliged to delist SP at the first sight of a liquidity 
problem. It had discretion in the matter, and I do not consider that it would have been 
beyond its reasonably commercial discretion to take no action in any earlier period of low 
liquidity and then to subsequently review its position and take the action it took to suspend 
SP in early 2020.
With regards to Mr Us description of SPs prices before and after he closed his trades, I 
understand his point in this respect too. However, beyond the suspicion he holds no 
evidence of price manipulation has been presented to this service, so I have no basis to 
draw such a conclusion.
In the absence of evidence to show that the basis upon which IG decided to delist SP in late 
January 2020 (effective in early February) was false or unreliable, I am not persuaded that 
Mr Us suspicions in this respect are justified. As the investigator noted (and quoted) the 
terms for his account gave IG discretion to either suspend bets or make prices for them 
based on an alternative but related underlying market  it elected to do the former in Mr Us 
case.Unfortunately, IG did not carry out the delisting of SP on 7 February as it was supposed to, 
but the facts of the complaint show that Mr U was not prejudiced by this  it could even be 
argued that he benefited from it. He kept his trades open beyond this date and there is 
record of him explaining to the investigator that he did so for the chance of a better price. 
The effect, given that IG allowed closures after 7 February to be executed at prices on 7 
February, was that he could benefit from any subsequent better prices or  if that did not 
happen  he could rely on the 7 February prices. In any case, he was not adversely affected 
by the delisting not taking place on 7 February.
IG should have notified Mr U of the new trading restriction placed on his account, he should 
not have had to discover this through an error message. Having said this, I can understand 
that IG placed the restriction because of the need to ensure the SP trades were closed  to 
match the postponed delisting. I can see how such a restriction would focus an account-
holders attention to closing the trades, in order to lift the restriction and continue trading as 
normal. On balance, I do not consider this an unreasonable rationale. I am also not 
persuaded, given the circumstances of the case, that the lack of notice to Mr U is sufficiently 
a wrongdoing to warrant compensation or to support his wider complaint.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I am not persuaded to uphold Mr Us 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman