DRN-3880191
The complaint
Mr U complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua registered information about him at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database, and wouldnt remove it.
What happened
Mr U explains that he applied for a credit card from NewDay in September 2021. His 
application was declined, and he found that the information had been registered. He asked 
NewDay to remove it, but he says it refused to do so.
NewDay said it had added a protective marker to CIFAS which was because it thought that 
Mr U was being impersonated in the application. When he complained it said that he would 
need to contact its fraud department to make the necessary checks.
Our investigator said that NewDay had concerns that the application wasnt genuine and 
added information at CIFAS to show that he had been the victim of impersonation. The 
purpose of this was to alert other CIFAS members to take extra care when considering an 
application from Mr U. So, it didnt have negative connotations for Mr U as this involved a 
protective rather than negative marker. Although NewDay said Mr U hadnt contacted the 
fraud department he didnt have reason to doubt Mr Us testimony. So, he thought that 
NewDay ought to have removed the information when Mr U asked. 
Our investigator didnt think that there had been detriment to Mr U. While Mr U hadnt 
applied for any further bank account it was highly unlikely hed have been declined solely 
due to this information at CIFAS. And so, he didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mr U didnt agree. He didnt think that this was being taken seriously and he wasnt happy 
with the position. Hed been unable to obtain an account. So, he wanted an ombudsman to 
consider the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay has explained that when it received the application here it wasnt satisfied that it 
was from Mr U. And so, it declined the application and registered the information at CIFAS in 
line with its processes. As has been set out this involved a protective marker and is to alert 
other financial businesses. 
Mr U had contacted this service before the final response from NewDay about his complaint. 
And he is clear that he called NewDay after that and hes given the name of the person he 
spoke to. NewDay was asked to search for a record of any calls with Mr U after the final 
response. And couldnt find anything. Thats unfortunate as it ought to have been possible 
for this to be dealt with rather than as Mr U says happened him then being told by NewDay 
to pursue the matter with this service.  
Having said that I agree with our investigator that the information at CIFAS oughtnt to have 
affected the prospects of the success of any other applications. Although there would likely 
to be greater checks made.  
Mr U says that hed been told by a different financial business that this marker would lead to 
his application being declined. And he was worried about a record of declined applications 
on his limited credit record. So, he didnt want to apply for any accounts. Im not clear here 
that the business involved understood the nature of the information at CIFAS to be protective  
when contacted by Mr U. And theres no actual evidence to support that this information at 
CIFAS would have adversely affected his application - and rather say than any other factors.
NewDay has confirmed that there are now no markers registered by it at CIFAS about Mr U 
and which seems to be due to the passage of time  a protective marker normally remaining 
for 13 months.
I appreciate that Mr U wants to be compensated for what happened. And is unhappy that our 
investigator didnt recommend this. Having considered all the information I know Im going to 
disappoint him when I say that I wont be awarding compensation. The reason for that is that 
Im not persuaded that the information at CIFAS caused Mr U detriment and would have 
been a factor in an application for a financial product being unsuccessful. We wouldnt tend 
to make an award for the time spent in him bringing a complaint. If Mr U doesnt accept my 
decision he remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that NewDay Ltd trading as 
Aqua does not need to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman