DRN-3885397
The complaint
Miss A complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement with RCI 
Financial Services Limited trading as Nissan Finance (RCIFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
She also complains that a deposit paid for a previous agreement wasnt transferred to her 
second vehicle.
What happened
Miss A acquired a car through a hire purchase with RCIFS in September 2019 that was 
returned due to issues. She was then offered a replacement car, and this was agreed in 
March 2020. The second car was also subject to a hire purchase agreement with RCIFS. 
Under this agreement she was required to make 36 monthly repayments of around £237 
followed by a final payment of £7,981. Miss A says that the £4,000 deposit she paid towards 
the first car was agreed to be transferred to her second car, but this didnt happen. She is 
concerned this means she has been paying higher monthly rentals than she should.
Miss A says that the car she acquired in March 2020, wasnt of satisfactory quality. She says 
she experienced issues shortly after taking collection and repairs that she was told had 
taken place didnt. She says he has had to pay for several repairs which she thinks isnt 
reasonable given the age and usage she has had of the car.
RCIFS says Miss A raised her complaint in March 2022, two years after entering into the 
agreement. In its final response letter, it said the agreement Miss A entered into clearly set 
out the terms and she signed this on 19 March 2020. It said it hadnt been provided any 
further details of the deposit Miss A had said hadnt been transferred so it didnt consider this 
further.
In regard to the quality of the car RCIFS said the service history showed the car was 
serviced before it was supplied in March 2020 and then a major service took place in March 
2021 when brake pads and discs were replaced free of charge. In June 2021 both front 
lower arms were replaced to address a suspension issue and a DPF regeneration took 
place, free of charge. It said Miss A accepted the car in March 2020 suggesting she was 
happy with it at that point and that she was responsible for its maintenance. It noted that 
offers had been made to reimburse the costs of tyres and for the battery to be replaced and 
that the dealership had invited Miss A to book the car in for assessment with the diagnostics 
costs and any repairs required being covered as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator thought it likely that there was a fault with the cars stop/start button. 
However, he didnt think there was evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. He thought that the most likely cause of the issues with 
Miss As car was wear and tear. Regarding the deposit he thought the second agreement 
was a newly negotiated agreement and so had there been terms not included (such as the 
deposit) Miss A could have raised this at the time. He didnt think there was evidence to say 
she was being charged higher monthly rentals than she should.
Miss A didnt agree. She said that she wasnt made aware she was entering a new 
agreement with the second car. She says she collected the car on 19 March 2020 just 
before the national lockdown and the process was rushed. She says she didnt receive a 
refund for the deposit and payments towards the first car as she had requested but was 
instead provided with a replacement car under the original agreement. She said the 
comments about wear and tear didnt take into account that she raised issues a month after 
having the car (engine control unit needed to be replaced) but due to the lockdown and the 
failure of the dealership to get the part the work didnt take place.
My provisional conclusions
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 25 November 2022, in which I said the 
following and which forms part of my final decision.
Miss As complaint has two separate parts. The first is about the quality of the car supplied in 
March 2020. The second is about the process of the transfer to the new vehicle and whether 
the deposit she paid for the first vehicle was applied. I have dealt with these two parts 
separately.
Quality of goods
Miss A acquired a used car in March 2020. Under the relevant regulations, specifically the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015, RCIFS can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply. In assessing what is satisfactory quality I have considered factors 
such as the age and mileage of the car, as it is reasonable to accept that a used car would 
likely have suffered some wear and tear.
When Miss A acquired the car, it was around three years old and had been driven 37,559 
miles. Miss A has said that she experienced issues shortly after collecting the car  noting in 
the first few months the alloys and tyres were damaged, cracks on the bumper and warning 
lights coming on which was found to be an issue with the stop/start function. There were 
then further issues identified in March 2021 when she took the car for a MOT and service.
I can understand why Miss A is upset by the issues she has experienced but for me to 
uphold this part of her complaint I would need to be satisfied that there were issues with the 
car that meant it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Items such as tyres, 
brake pads and discs and the battery are subject to wear and tear and while I appreciate the 
point that Miss A has made about the usage she had before replacements were needed, I 
also note that the car underwent an MOT in February 2020 where there were no advisories 
and as the brake pads and discs and tyres would have been checked as part of this I do not 
find I can say they were in an unsatisfactory state at the point of supply. 
Miss A has said the tyres should have been replaced before the car was supplied. An 
invoice has been provided to show the two front tyres were replaced in January 2020 (two 
months before the car was supplied) and the car had been driven around 2,000 miles since 
the replacement and so I wouldnt expect the tyres to have been replaced again at the point 
of supply. However, I appreciate that Miss A did need to replace the tyres. Miss A had a tyre 
and alloy warranty which I would have expected her to consider a claim under and I note an 
offer to cover this cost has been made. I think this resolves this issue.
The car underwent its MOT in March 2021. At this time issues were identified. But as Miss A 
had been driving the car for a year by this time and had covered around 9,000 miles, I think 
the issues raised at that time were more likely wear and tear than faults. That said I note the 
brake discs and pads were replaced at no cost to Miss A and then in June the lower arm 
suspension was replaced and a DPF regeneration undertaken at no cost to Miss A.Miss A has provided evidence of the battery needing replacing. The information shows this 
was in May 2021 after she had been able to drive the car over 11,000 miles. Again, I do not 
find I can say that given the mileage Miss A covered that this was an issue at the point of 
supply but note the offer made in regard to this cost.
This only leaves the issue Miss A has raised about the stop start function. Miss A has said 
she noticed an issue with warning lights coming on in the first few months and she was told 
to return the car. The stop start function was identified as being an issue. In June 2020, a 
new part was ordered but there were then delays with the repair due to the pandemic. I 
understand that this is an ongoing issue and given when it was first raised, I think it is 
reasonable to accept this was a fault that was present at the point of supply. Therefore, this 
means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Miss A has explained that the dealer requested a replacement part in June 2020, and it 
appears at that time she accepted the offer of repair which I find reasonable. Delays then 
occurred due to the lockdown and Miss A says she didnt have any update on this issue until 
March 2021. This is a long delay, but it appears that Miss A wasnt chasing for the work to 
take place.
An MOT and service took place in March 2021. This raised other issues which have been 
noted above. Miss A says the car was booked in for the stop start issue to be addressed but 
after collecting the car, the issue re-emerged and she says the repair hadnt happened. It 
isnt clear what happened in regard to this repair, and I note the business has said that the 
dealer had repeatedly invited Miss A in for the car to be investigated and this issue 
addressed but that this hadnt happened and at the time of writing (May 2022) the dealer 
hadnt seen the car since June 2021. In cases where repairs take an unreasonable amount 
of time, or are unsuccessful, it can be reasonable to say that the customer should be allowed 
to reject the car. However, in this case it isnt clear what has happened or where the fault lies 
for the delays and so I think the fair resolution is for the investigation and repair to take place 
at no cost to Miss A as has been offered.
Transfer to new agreement
I appreciate the timing of Miss A collecting her second car was the eve of the country going 
into lockdown restrictions and so I can understand why there may have been an urgency 
about getting the documents in place for the car to be supplied. I have looked through the 
documents provided to understand the payment flows.
Miss A entered into the first agreement in September 2019. The sales invoice records the 
cost of the car as £15,495 and additional items were added (MOT, fuel and delivery) bringing 
the total cost to £15,725. A dealer contribution of £650 was recorded along with a deposit 
received from Miss A of £3,252. This left a credit requirement of £11,823. The total cost of 
£15,725 and the credit of £11,823 is recorded in the first hire purchase agreement.
This first agreement records an advance payment of £3,902. The disbursement form from 
the time shows a total deposit of £4,650 (of which Miss A has shown that she paid £4,000 
the rest is the contribution). This amount included £748 for the alloy and tyre warranty. 
Therefore, the net contribution was £3,902. In regard to Miss As £4,000 payment of the 
£4,000 paid £748 was to cover the tyre and alloy warranty, giving the net deposit amount of 
£3,252.
In March 2020, Miss A signed a new agreement. I note her comments about this but there 
was a new agreement set up and she has noted the need for an additional £1,000 payment. 
The agreement included all payment and other relevant details and she signed this and so I 
think it reasonable to accept she knew she was entering into a new agreement at this time.RCIFS has said that the new agreement was set up as a part exchange and as such the 
deposit wasnt refundable. Instead, a price was agreed for the first car and this amount was 
used to settle the finance with any remaining amount (in this case around £570) paid as a 
deposit towards the new agreement. Additional to this Miss A received a £400 deposit 
contribution resulting in the total deposit amount being around £970. Miss A has said that it 
was agreed that the deposit from the first car would be transferred but I do not have further 
evidence of this.
I have therefore considered whether I think the outcome of this exchange was fair. In cases 
where rejection of a car is agreed we would usually expect the existing finance to be settled 
and any deposit refunded. Miss A has asked about her payments under the first agreement, 
but these would have been made for the use of the first car until exchange. However, in this 
case the resolution to the issues with Miss As first car was for a like for like exchange to 
take place. I have looked at both agreements and can see that the total amounts payable 
under each, the monthly repayments and the terms were very similar. The details provided 
of the car Miss A received under the second agreement suggest it was an improvement on 
the first car (newer and a lower mileage), therefore I can see that the dealer did provide (as 
far as reasonably possible), a like for like exchange.
However, while the total amount payable under the first agreement was around £18,960, 
Miss A had paid £3,252 towards this and a further dealer contribution had been made 
meaning the total amount left to pay was around £15,059. Under the second agreement, 
Miss A says she had to pay £1,000 and the amount she is required to pay under the 
agreement (excluding the deposit) is around £16,498, giving a total payable of around 
£17,498. So, while I can see a part exchange did take place on a like for like basis and I note 
that the second car was likely of a higher standard, without further evidence to show that 
Miss A received the deposit benefit elsewhere (that is through a price reduction on the car or 
other process) it does appear that the deposit she initially paid has not been fully transferred. 
As she didnt get the full benefit of this in the transaction, I do not find she has been treated 
fairly.
Considering the amount of the deposit that Miss A has lost out on, I have taken the original 
amount of £3,252 and I think it fair to deduct the £570.91 transferred as part of the exchange 
as well as the £400 dealer contribution. This leaves a figure of £2,281.09. I think this amount 
should be paid to Miss A along with interest for the time she has been without the funds.
In conclusion, I think the offer made by RCIFS in regard to the issue with the stop start 
function is a reasonable remedy to the quality of the car issue, but I think RCIFS needs to 
pay Miss A an additional amount to reflect the loss of the deposit payment.
Responses to my provisional conclusions
Neither party accepted my provisional decision, and both provided further responses for 
consideration.
Miss A reiterated that the car she was provided with wasnt of satisfactory quality. She 
provided further details about the timing and nature of the issues she had experienced with 
the car. She said the car was continuously cutting out due to the issue with the stop start 
function which was extremely worrying and almost caused her to have and accident. She 
said that she was told she would be supplied with a mint condition car but instead received a 
car of poor quality. She said the way the dealership treated her and the issues with the car 
caused her stress and anxiety which she thought she should be compensated for. In regard to the issues with the deposit, Miss A reiterated that she wasnt aware she was 
entering into a new agreement for the replacement car and had this been explained to her 
she wouldnt have signed the new agreement due to her concerns. She noted the comment 
about a dealer contribution towards her agreement and said she wasnt made aware of this 
and said that her paperwork showed she paid a deposit of £4,000. In addition to this she 
paid £400 towards the tyre insurance. She said she thought the five months of payments 
made towards her first car should have been transferred to the replacement vehicle. Miss A 
said she wasnt told that her original agreement and warranty had been cancelled until the 
dealership said it wouldnt cover the diagnostics and repairs. She requested the repairs 
under the extended warranty and after providing the documentation to the dealership it 
accepted her extended warranty was valid.
RCIFS said that the issues with the first vehicle werent raised with it. It said it was only 
aware of the part exchange and not the reasons behind it and that the decision was made 
between Miss A and the dealer. It said this wasnt a complaint to be considered by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service but the Motor Ombudsman. RCIFS then said even if the 
issue with the first vehicle was to be considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service there 
was no evidence that it was agreed the car would be rejected. Instead, a part exchange was 
agreed. It said Miss A received the benefit of her deposit as this reduced the settlement of 
the financial agreement. It said if the deposit was refunded, Miss A would benefit twice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Quality of goods
Miss A has said she was told the replacement car would be mint condition. I note this 
comment, but I have no further evidence of the conversations that took place at the time. 
However, given the experience Miss A had with the first car I find, on balance, it reasonable 
that the dealership would offer to provide a good condition replacement. Miss A says that a 
month after acquiring the car (it wasnt driven in that time due to the national lockdown) she 
washed the car and noticed that damage she had been told about hadnt been remedied  
that is a cracked bumper replaced and alloy wheels and tyres replaced. While I understand 
why Miss A was upset, this was minor damage that wouldnt be unexpected on a used car 
and the dealership accepted to repair it as part of its offer. So, while there may have been 
issue with this repair, I do not think this means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
In regard to the tyres, as I set out in my provisional decision these were replaced shortly 
before the car was provided to Miss A and so I wouldnt have expected them to have been 
replaced again. I understand the point Miss A has made about the date stamp on the tyres 
but this relates to when the tyres were made and the dealership has explained that tyres will 
be fitted from the stock available and so I do not find the date means the replacement didnt 
happen at the time noted on the invoice provided. As I set out in my provisional decision, I 
do not think this issue means the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality and note that Miss A 
had a tyre warranty and the dealership offered to cover the cost of the replacement tyres. I 
think this was a reasonable resolution to this issue.
Miss A raised other issues about the brake discs and the battery. She thought the battery 
issue arose as a result of other issues with the car. However, based on the age and mileage 
of the car, the use Miss A had of it before the replacements were needed and that the car 
passed an MOT shortly before it was supplied with no advisories, I find these issues were 
more likely than not wear and tear rather than due to faults with the car at the point of 
supply. As I accepted in my provisional decision, while most of the issues Miss A raised were wear 
and tear the issue with the stop start function means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Miss A provided further details about this and the concerns it caused her. As I agree this 
issue was due to a fault present or developing at the point if supply, I have considered what 
a reasonable remedy would be. 
In certain cases, rejecting the car may be the appropriate remedy but, in this case, I still think 
the offer of diagnostics and repair is reasonable. I say this because Miss A initially accepted 
the repair, and the part was ordered. Delays occurred due to the national lockdown. I 
understand Miss As frustration but, in this case, I accept that the repair had been accepted 
and the dealership was working on obtaining the part. I appreciate Miss As frustrations with 
the delay, but I also note the comments by the dealership that it had offered to assess the 
car and carry out repairs. Therefore, I find that repair was a reasonable remedy in response 
to this issue raised.
Miss A has said in August 2022, an independent review of the vehicle found that the stop 
start function issue was as a result of a defective engine control unit and this was repaired 
under her extended warranty. I note her comments about the issue of getting the repairs 
accepted under the warranty but as this has happened, I find this is a reasonable remedy to 
this issue.
Overall, I understand why Miss A was upset by the issues with her car, but the only issue I 
think meant there was an issue with the quality of the car was the stop start function and in 
this case I think repair of this was a reasonable remedy.
Transfer to new agreement
I have considered the comments of both RCIFS and Miss A in response to my provisional 
decision in regard to the transfer of the agreement. RCIFS say that they werent involved 
with the return of the Miss As first vehicle and that a part exchange was arranged without its 
involvement. However, Miss A acquired her car though a hire purchase agreement and 
under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, RCIFS is liable for what is said by a 
credit broker or a supplier (in this case the dealership) in relation to antecedent negotiations 
or what is said about the goods prior to Miss A entering into the finance agreement. 
While I cannot say for certain what was discussed at the time, as Miss A had paid a 
significant deposit towards the first car and had only had use of the car for short period, 
before the replacement was agreed, on balance, I find it more likely than not that she would 
have expected the benefit of the deposit to be passed to the second car and I find it 
reasonable to accept that Miss A would have discussed this as part of the transfer process. I 
note Miss As comments about not being aware of that second agreement was being set up 
rather than her original agreement being amended but I also accept she signed the 
document and I think she was provided with the information she needed to be aware that a 
new agreement was in place.
I have considered therefore what happened based on the information provided about the 
financing of the agreement and what I think should have happened if Miss A was treated 
fairly in this process. In principle, as I set out in my provisional decision, I do not think Miss A 
needed to be refunded for the payments she made under the first agreement as these were 
for the use of the first car, however I do think the benefit of her deposit should have been 
transferred to the second car. The finance flows arent completely clear, and I note Miss As 
comment about the payment she made of £4,000 and £400 for the tyre warranty and that 
she wasnt aware of the dealership contributions. My role isnt to provide an audit of the figures involved but based on the information 
provided, and also what I think would have happened, I think there is a shortfall in regard to 
the deposit amount transferred to Miss As second agreement. I set out my calculations in 
my provisional decision and I note the additional comments provided. But, in summary the 
initial deposit Miss A paid towards the first car was £3,252 and then a deposit of £970.91 
was paid towards the second car. This amount consisted of the amount remaining after 
Miss As first agreement had been settled and a £400 contribution from the dealer. So, while 
I have taken onboard the comments made by both parties, on balance, I think the amount I 
previously identified is a reasonable reflection of the deposit amount that wasnt transferred 
(£2,281.09) and this should be refunded along with interest.
I know this isnt the outcome that either party wants. However, based on the evidence I have 
seen, I find this is the fairest resolution to this complaint. 
Putting things right
RCI Financial Services Limited trading as Nissan Finance should pay Miss A £2,281.09 
along with 8% simple interest from the date of the second agreement to the date of 
settlement to reflect the loss of deposit transferred.
In regard to the stop start issue Miss A experienced with her car, I note Miss A has said that 
repairs have been undertaken under her extended warranty. However, if this has yet to 
happen, RCI Financial Services Limited trading as Nissan Finance should ensure this is 
repaired no cost to Miss A as was offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. RCI Financial Services Limited trading as 
Nissan Finance should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman