DRN-3985212
The complaint
Mr T and Mr T are unhappy with the settlement Zurich Insurance PLC paid after they 
claimed for an escape of water under their home insurance policy.
The policy was in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer simply to Mr T throughout my 
decision.
All references to Zurich include any agents which handle claims on its behalf.
What happened
Briefly, Mr T suffered extensive water damage to his home caused by a leak from his boiler. 
Zurich paid over £60,000 to settle the claim for damage it thought was caused by the escape 
of water. However, Mr T says there are outstanding elements of his claim which Zurich 
hasnt agreed to settle.
The background and details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Zurichs agent handled this claim on its behalf. However, as this policy is underwritten by 
Zurich, its been properly considered against the insurer.
Firstly, I note that Zurich settled a large part of Mr Ts claim, paying a cash settlement of over 
£60,000. Our investigator clarified with Mr T the outstanding issues, which are: 
Replacement fitted wardrobes in the main bedroom.
Replacement windows and doors.
Unsuitable alternative accommodation (AA).
Compensation for inconvenience and distress caused by this matter, loss of 
earnings, AA costs and private medical appointments.
Our investigator didnt think Zurich needed to do any more in respect of Mr Ts complaint. 
But Mr T didnt agree. He provided further comment, mainly highlighting information already 
available, and referencing specific points in the investigators view. 
My role is to decide whether Zurich settled the claim in line with the policy and whether it 
treated Mr T fairly in the circumstances. To reach my decision, Ive looked at everything 
provided. Theres a lot of information so I wont comment on all of it  our rules dont require 
me to. Instead, Ill focus on the outstanding issues summarised above.
Fitted wardrobes
Mr T is unhappy that Zurich hasnt paid for the fitted wardrobes in one of the bedrooms. 
Zurich said the wardrobes didnt appear to be damaged.
The evidence shows that Mr T told Zurich he cleaned the mould off the wardrobes, which is 
why Zurich couldnt see the damage. I have no reason to doubt what he says. However, 
unless Mr T can show that the wardrobes are damaged, and that the damage is a direct 
result of the escape of water, then theres nothing for Zurich to provide cover for.
Ive looked at the report Mr T provided to support his claim. It tells me that only one bedroom 
was affected by the escape of water. Therefore, Im satisfied the evidence supports Zurichs 
decision to cover the cost of just one set of wardrobes. 
I understand Mr T was willing to dismantle the wardrobes to show Zurich evidence of the 
damage, but he said Zurich told him not to. The wardrobes belong to Mr T so if he chooses 
to dismantle them, thats his right. But it doesnt necessarily mean Zurich will agree theres 
water damage or pay for replacement. Mr T thinks they need replacing anyway, so he may 
be happy to go ahead regardless.
But, in the absence of any clear evidence showing damage, I cant reasonably ask Zurich to 
pay for new fitted wardrobes.
Replacement windows and doors
Mr T said the double-glazed window units were misted because of the moisture in his home 
caused by the escape of water. He wants Zurich to replace all windows and doors.
Zurich couldnt see how an escape of water would cause damage to the windows and doors, 
so it declined this part of the claim.
Looking again at Mr Ts report, dated July 2022, it says there is, condensation build up 
within the units of the windows which could be from rising damp. Theres no mention of 
doors.
The report says the condensation could be from rising damp, but I dont think its a firm 
conclusion that the windows were damaged by the escape of water which is the subject of 
the claim. Balanced against the reports provided by Zurich, Im not persuaded that 
condensation inside otherwise intact double-glazed window units and doors is a reasonably 
foreseeable result of an escape of water. Therefore, Im satisfied that Zurich reasonably 
declined this element of Mr Ts claim.
Unsuitable Alternative Accommodation
Mr T complains that the alternative accommodation (AA) he and his family had to live in 
while their claim was ongoing was unsuitable and contributed to the overall inconvenience. 
Zurich pointed out that it had no part in arranging the AA.
I note that Mr T moved into different accommodation having decided his home was no longer 
habitable. The policy provides cover for AA providing Zurich authorises it. Despite being 
unaware of the move, Zurich still paid for the AA, and I think that was reasonable.
Ive thought carefully about this issue. I can understand Mr T wanted to be away from the 
damage in his home and to make sure his family wasnt affected by mould. But I cant 
reasonably hold Zurich responsible for his decision to move to a smaller property which 
didnt fully suit his needs. Had Zurich arranged the AA, then I mightve viewed this matter 
differently. But Zurich had no part in selecting the property. So, I see no reason to ask Zurich to pay anything further in respect of the inconvenience Mr T experienced directly because of 
the unsuitability of the accommodation.
Compensation
Mr T asked for compensation to reflect the costs he incurred and the inconvenience and 
distress caused by Zurichs handling of his claim, loss of earnings, unsuitable AA and private 
medical appointments.
I dont doubt this whole matter caused Mr T distress and inconvenience. But I can only 
consider compensation for the avoidable distress and inconvenience caused directly by 
Zurichs handling of the claim. There was always going to be inconvenience because of the 
damage itself. And Mr T has already said he and his family moved into AA to avoid distress 
or risk to health, which I note was very early on in the claim process. So, I dont think its 
reasonable to say the initial issues were avoidable or caused by Zurichs handling of the 
claim.
Ive considered the other matters Mr T referred to which affected him and his family. I wont 
go into his personal details here but, broadly, the issues are around loss of earnings and 
medical appointments. The issues Mr T describes arent things that could be reasonably 
anticipated following a claim for an escape of water, and the evidence he provided doesnt 
persuade me that Zurichs actions caused any of the events. Having thought about what Mr 
T said, I dont think its fair or reasonable to hold Zurich responsible, so I see no reason to 
ask Zurich to cover the direct costs or pay compensation.
Delays
Mr T disagreed with Zurichs claim that there hadnt been any avoidable delays. 
Damage of this nature and extent will inevitably cause upheaval and take time to address. 
Looking at the communication between Mr T and Zurich, its clear that a lot of time spent 
was regarding the scope of work. Zurich said Mr T was looking for a complete renovation 
and, having considered the evidence, I can understand why it made that comment. Thats 
not to say I do or dont agree with Zurich, simply that I understand why it wanted to ensure 
all parts of the claim were related to the escape of water. Zurich maintained its position 
about some parts of the claim and, as Ive already said, the evidence indicates that was fair. 
So, I cant reasonably say that Zurich caused avoidable delays simply because it didnt 
agree with some of the repairs Mr T asked for. 
Im sorry that Mr T and his family experienced the escape of water which damaged their 
home. And in light of what hes told us about other, unrelated things going on in their lives I 
can see why he and his family feel distressed. But, overall, I havent seen anything in the 
evidence to indicate that Zurich treated him unfairly in its handling of his claim. Zurich has 
already paid a cash settlement, so I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman