DRN-3108544
The complaint
Mr B and his wife Mrs B are unhappy with Allianz Insurance Plcs (Allianz) handling of a 
claim made under Mr Bs motorhome insurance policy. Both Mr and Mrs B have 
communicated with our service about this, but as Mr B is the policyholder, Ill keep things 
simple by mostly only referring to Mr B in my decision. 
What happened
The history of this complaint is detailed and well known to both parties, so here Ill outline 
and summarise only what I think is the relevant background to what Mr B remains unhappy 
with. Mr B had a motorhome insurance policy with Allianz. In 2018 Mr B, his wife and their 
motorhome were involved in an accident whilst abroad, so Mr B claimed for the damaged 
motorhome under the Allianz policy. Allianz accepted the claim and the motorhome was 
repaired by Allianzs repairers. But Mr B was unhappy with the repairs, which he thought 
caused additional damage to the motorhome. So Mr B complained to Allianz. 
In its final response dated June 2019, Allianz upheld the complaint. It explained it originally 
thought the motorhome was a total loss because of the extensive damage and cost of 
repairs. But that it agreed to repair the motorhome because of Mr Bs sentimental 
attachment to it. Allianz said if it had done a more detailed inspection with Mr B present, then 
it could have been clearer about what rectification work was needed and what damage was 
due to wear and tear rather than the accident. Allianz apologised for this and for further work 
being needed, and offered Mr B £300 compensation for the delays, distress and 
inconvenience this caused. It also offered Mr B a further £50 compensation for its delay in 
responding to the complaint. Allianz said the next steps would be for it to finalise the repairs 
and carry out a full assessment to ensure everything was as it should be. 
In summary, there was communication between Mr B and Allianz over the following months. 
Allianz carried out further work to the motorhome but Mr B remained unhappy. Allianz 
offered to pay for an independent inspection by a garage or engineer of Mr Bs choice - 
Allianz said it had asked the motorhome manufacturer to do this inspection but it wasnt able 
to.  Mr B didnt choose an independent garage or engineer, and said hed prefer not to be 
present at the inspection and didnt trust Allianz to use someone independent. To progress 
things, Allianz arranged its own inspection in October 2019. 
Mr B remained unhappy with the repairs. A particular point of dispute was the replacement 
motorhome door Allianz had fitted, which Mr B said wasnt the correct door and caused 
additional damage to the motorhome. And it was disputed whether or not an original 
manufacturers door could be sourced to replace it. Allianz thought it couldnt as the 
manufacturer said that door was no longer produced and had been superseded by a 
different model. But Mr B thought one could be sourced. Allianz said the original door was no 
longer available from the manufacturer and offered Mr B three options: a cash settlement of 
£4,000 for Mr B to source a door and have it fitted, or two other options involving recording 
the motorhome as a total loss.  
While Mr B preferred for Allianz itself to replace the door, he didnt want the motorhome 
recorded as a total loss. But he thought Allianzs cash settlement offer of £4,000 wasnt 
enough and the door would cost more once the work started. So Allianz asked Mr B to 
provide a cash settlement quote for it to consider, and said it would also consider paying for 
water damage caused by its previous fitting of the replacement door if Mr B provided a quote 
for this. Mr B outlined an estimate hed received from his own preferred repairer totalling 
£4,160 (excluding VAT) for a new door and the labour and materials to fit it. 
While communicating with Allianz, Mr B referred this complaint to our service. Ultimately 
Mr B told us the motorhome repairs issues had all been resolved bit by bit, but the door was 
still outstanding. Mr B said hed already taken delivery of what he thought was the correct 
door. And Allianz withdrew the offer of a cash settlement, saying that Mr B would now need 
to choose between options for declaring the motorhome a total loss. 
After looking into things, an investigator at our service said Allianz had offered Mr B three 
options, including a cash settlement regarding the door. And it wasnt fair for Allianz to later 
withdraw the cash settlement option. The investigator thought the fairest outcome was for an 
engineer to assess the repairs needed and for Allianz to pay a cash settlement. 
Mr B provided further comments, reiterating some of what hed already told our service. 
Allianz disagreed with the investigator, saying it offered Mr B a cash settlement because 
hed maintained an original manufacturers door was available. But that the door Mr B now 
had wasnt such a door, but was rather what Mr B saw to be a more suitable replacement 
door than the one Allianz had previously fitted. Allianz said that as Mr B cant obtain an 
original door, the motorhome isnt repairable and so it can no longer offer a cash settlement. 
And that it didnt have the expertise to accurately estimate the repairs for a cash settlement 
and was concerned it wouldnt be able to agree a settlement amount with Mr B. Allianz also 
thought it was unfair for it to do further repairs when it couldnt guarantee a satisfactory 
repair due to an original manufacturers door not being available. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for consideration. And 
on 8 September 2021 I issued my provisional decision, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Both Mr B and Allianz have provided a great deal of detailed evidence and comments. 
However, I wont address everything thats been provided in my decision. I mean no 
discourtesy by this, and Id like to reassure Mr B and Allianz that Ive considered all their 
comments and evidence. But my decision will only address what I see to be relevant in 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome regarding the crux of Mr Bs complaint.
And it seems to me that the crux of Mr Bs complaint is about the standard of repairs Allianz 
has carried out to the motorhome. And that the only thing now left in dispute is the 
motorhome door. So thats what my decision will address.
I should be clear here that Mr Bs policy entitles Allianz to settle Mr Bs claim as it sees fit, 
including fitting non-manufacturer parts or deciding the motorhome was a total loss. I say 
that because the policy says If your motorhome is lost, stolen or damaged, we may decide 
to:
pay for any repairs to your motorhome; if we pay for any repairs to your motorhome, we 
may decide to use suitable replacement parts that are not supplied by the original 
manufacturer;
replace your motorhome;
pay you an amount up to the value of any loss or damage to your motorhome.But Allianz decided to repair the motorhome. Mr B says Allianz didnt use an original 
manufacturers door as it should have, leading to a poor fit and water damage.  And in 
communication with Allianz, he wanted it to remedy this by finding and fitting an original 
manufacturers door which Mr B strongly believed was available. But Ive seen 
correspondence between the manufacturer and Allianz that suggests such a door is no 
longer produced and that the replacement door Allianz had fitted is in fact the door that 
supersedes it. This is why Allianz says the door cant be repaired and that total loss is now 
the only option it can offer Mr B. But I acknowledge Mr B is adamant he doesnt want the 
motorhome declared a total loss. 
I understand from Mr Bs communication with our service that he currently has a door he 
believes to be the correct replacement door for the motorhome. And he would like Allianz to 
pay a cash settlement to reimburse him for this and to pay for his own repairer to fit it.  
Allianz had previously offered Mr B a cash settlement of £4,000 but says this is now no 
longer an option. I acknowledge Allianzs concerns about it not having the expertise to 
accurately estimate the repairs for a cash settlement, that it wouldnt be able to agree a 
settlement amount with Mr B, and that it cant guarantee a satisfactory repair due to the 
original manufacturers door not being available.
But Im intending to say I dont think its reasonable for Allianz to now say it can no longer 
offer Mr B this cash settlement because the motorhome is not repairable. As I say, this is 
something Allianz had previously offered Mr B. And its clear Mr B and Allianz cant reach 
agreement on the door or on declaring the motorhome a total loss. A cash settlement would 
allow both parties to resolve the matter of the door. A cash settlement would also reimburse 
Mr B for the door he seems to have bought which he feels very strongly is the correct door, 
and would allow him to pay for it to be fitted at a repairer of his choosing. 
But I need to make clear that by paying Mr B a cash settlement for the motorhome door, 
Allianz is no longer responsible for any issues with the motorhome door. If, after Allianz has 
paid him the cash settlement, Mr B has concerns about the door or how it was fitted then he 
would need to raise these with the repairer of his choice. So taking everything into account, 
Im intending to say that a fair and reasonable outcome here is for Allianz to pay Mr B a cash 
settlement regarding the motorhome door.
Ive thought about what a fair cash settlement amount would be for the door. Allianz recently 
said it doesnt have the expertise to estimate the repairs, but I note its engineer had 
previously estimated replacing the door to cost £4,000 (excluding VAT), and this is what 
Allianzs cash settlement offer was based on. I also note that during his communication with 
Allianz, Mr B told it hed received a quote of £4,160 for replacing the door (excluding VAT). 
Given that Mr B and Allianz have strongly disputed the door for a long time now, I dont think 
the further inspection suggested by our investigator would be helpful here. And since Mr Bs 
quote of £4,160 for replacing the door is reasonably close to Allianzs own estimate and 
previous cash settlement offer of £4,000, Im intending to say its fair and reasonable for 
Allianz to pay Mr B £4,160 in cash settlement regarding the door. 
I hope it helps if I explain that Allianz doesnt need to include VAT in the cash settlement at 
this stage because, as I understand it, Mr B hasnt actually had the door fitted yet by his own 
repairers. But once Mr B can show Allianz he has paid his chosen repairers to replace the 
door, then Id expect Allianz to pay the VAT added onto that cash settlement amount. 
Mr B has told us about the upset and inconvenience this matter has caused. And Im sorry to 
hear of the health and other difficulties hes told us about. I think its fair to say a claim like 
this would always have taken at least some time and caused Mr B at least some degree of 
upset and inconvenience. But I can see that Allianzs final response letter of June 2019 offered a total of £350 compensation for the delays, distress and inconvenience it 
caused him. Since then, I think Allianz has generally tried to assist Mr B and move things 
forward, although I realise Mr B will likely disagree. Taking everything into account, Im 
intending to say the total of £350 Allianz has itself already offered is fair compensation for 
any distress and inconvenience it has caused in this matter.
Allianz said it was happy with my provisional decision. 
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr B reiterated some of what he considered to be 
Allianzs poor workmanship. Mr B clarified that his own engineer inspected the motorhome in 
October 2019 and said the door Allianz fitted wasnt an original manufacturers door and that 
Allianz had altered the doorframe to accommodate it - Mr B provided a copy of this report. 
And Mr B clarified that the second repairers were also chosen by Allianz, and that they 
corrected Allianzs previous poor workmanship rather than wear and tear. Mr B said Allianz 
was trying to bully him by withdrawing its cash settlement offer and suggesting the 
motorhome be declared as a total loss. And he said the motorhome was in excellent 
condition, so Allianz was wrong to say any issues were caused by wear and tear. Mr B 
confirmed the motorhome had no other issues other than the outstanding matter of the door, 
and that he was willing to accept the cash settlement for the door. 
Im now in a position to issue my final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr B has provided further clarification and evidence regarding the repairs 
Allianz carried out. But I dont think these clarifications change the conclusions I reached in 
my provisional decision regarding the motorhome door and the cash settlement, which was 
that a fair and reasonable outcome was for Allianz to pay Mr B a cash settlement of £4,160 
(excluding VAT) for the door. And ultimately both Mr B and Allianz have essentially accepted 
what I said in my provisional decision about this being a fair and reasonable outcome. So I 
see no reason to depart from this. 
I also acknowledge Mr B thinks Allianz was trying to bully him when it withdrew the cash 
settlement offer and suggested declaring the motorhome a total loss. But as I explained in 
my provisional decision, the policy terms did entitle Allianz to settle the claim as it saw fit, 
though I then went on to explain why I thought a cash settlement for the disputed door was a 
fair and reasonable outcome in the particular circumstances of this complaint. So I dont 
think Mr Bs comments are enough reason for me to fairly say the £350 compensation 
Allianz has itself already offered Mr B should be increased. 
 
Putting things right
Allianz should pay Mr B a cash settlement of £4,160 in respect of the disputed motorhome 
door, plus VAT applicable on this once a VAT invoice is presented. And it should also pay 
Mr B the £350 compensation it has already offered for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused, if it hasnt already paid this
  
My final decision For the reasons set out above, Allianz Insurance Plc should pay Mr B:
a cash settlement of £4,160 in respect of the disputed motorhome door, plus VAT 
applicable on this once a VAT invoice is presented.
the £350 compensation it has already offered for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused, if it hasnt already paid this.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman