DRN-2174676
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with their home insurer esure Insurance Limited (Esure) in 
respect of an offer it made to settle their claim made after their home was burgled.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P were away from home in January 2019 when, on 10 January their neighbour 
noticed that lights were on in their house and the front window was open. He called the 
police and it was determined that thered been a break-in. The police secured the window 
and noted the thieves had likely tried to gain entry first via doors to a conservatory at the 
rear of the house. When Mr and Mrs P returned home they contacted Esure.
Esure sent a glazing company but it said it didnt deal with that type of conservatory. 
However, it felt the whole conservatory would have to be replaced. Esure asked Mr P to 
get some quotes for replacing the conservatory for it to consider but also appointed a 
loss adjuster and asked another glazing company to compete a desktop assessment to 
determine what could and couldnt be done with the doors. The loss adjuster noted the 
conservatory wasnt in a good condition and felt it was impossible to know for sure if the 
doors had been damaged during the theft or if they were suffering from long-term use. 
The other glazing company felt the doors couldnt be repaired but, in theory, could be 
replaced. However, they noted the condition of the conservatory and felt that 
replacement couldnt be completed without the conservatory itself being upgraded. They 
said the cost of new doors would be £1,542.68 plus VAT.
In a final response Esure said it would pay this sum to Mr and Mrs P, with VAT being paid 
once they incurred it. But it said it wouldnt pay to replace the whole conservatory as that 
would be betterment. It accepted there had been some delays as well as an initially 
inaccurate settlement offer and offered £150 compensation. When Mr and Mrs P 
complained to us our investigator felt Esure had acted fairly so he didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy. They said Esures offer left them in a difficult position as it 
meant they couldnt complete repairs. They said they realised that a new conservatory 
would be an improvement not covered by the policy but pointed out they are only 
needing to replace it now because of the burglary. Mr and Mrs P said they felt the fairest 
resolution would be for costs to be shared 50/50. They also said their heating costs had 
increased since the doors had been damaged.
The compalint was passed to me. I felt that Esure had acted unfairly. I said it should 
arrange for a replacement of Mr and Mrs Ps conservatory or pay them to replace it, with 
Esure bearing the full cost for replacing the door and both parties sharing liability for the 
remaining replacement costs on a 50/50 basis. I noted sure had offerd £150 
compensation and didnt think it should have to pay more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were:
Having done so I feel Mr and Mrs P have a point. They will benefit from a new 
conservatory and Esure wouldnt have to pay those costs if the conservatory hadnt been 
so old. But equally, Mr and Mrs P are covered for damage which occurs as a result of 
theft, Esure accepts the doors are damaged as result of theft and that they cant be 
replaced without the conservatory being replaced too. So but for the theft Mr and Mrs P 
wouldnt be needing to spend out to replace the conservatory but if they want to reinstate 
the doors that is what they will have to do. Their being left footing the whole replacement 
bill doesnt feel fair.
It occurs to me that this situation is not dissimilar to complaints this service sees 
regarding matching items  where one item is damaged beyond repair by an insured 
event and cant be replaced to ensure a match with the other remaining and undamaged 
items. In that situation we often require the insurer to settle for the damaged item and pay 
50% towards the replacement cost for the remaining items. The principle being that the 
insurance policy doesnt cover the (previously) matching parts but it isnt fair for the 
policyholders to be left either having to now live with unmatched items or having to bear 
the entire cost of replacing the now non-matching items in order to regain the position 
they were in before the loss.
I grant that that Mr and Mrs Ps situation is different in that the rest of the conservatory is 
damaged and its a whole item not parts of a matching set  but I think its reasonable to 
say the situations are similar because the damage the conservatory is suffering hasnt 
been caused by the event which damaged the doors, and the doors cant be replaced 
whilst leaving the conservatory (the matching part if you will) as it is.
So Im going to say that Esure should either replace Mr and Mrs Ps conservatory, with 
them contributing towards the cost. Or it can pay them for them to complete the work. In 
either scenario Esure will be liable for the full cost of replacement doors and the parties 
will share the remaining cost for the replacement on a 50/50 basis.
Im not persuaded that the damage to the conservatory door caused an increase in 
heating costs. An increase mayve occurred (although Ive not seen comparable bills 
showing that) but that might be for a number of reasons  I note that, following the 
burglary, the French doors from the house to the conservatory were found to be suffering 
wear and tear damage.
Esure has offered a total of £150 compensation. Im not persuaded it would be fair to 
make it pay more than that.
Esure said it didnt agree with my findings, but it would accept them. Mr and Mrs P said 
they were generally pleased with my findings but wanted to make sure I understood that 
the current door cant be repaired or replaced. They also requested that further 
compensation is paid by Esure.
I can assure Mr and Mrs P that I am aware of the problem with the current, damaged door. 
It is for that reason that lve said the parties need to contribute equally towards replacing 
the conservatory as a whole  but with Esure paying for the cost of the doors for the new 
conservatory in its entirety.
I know Mr and Mrs P were upset by what happened and I did consider in my provisional 
findings their request for compensation beyond the £150 already offerd by Esure. I wasnt persauded such would be fair in the circumstances, I remain of that view. If they want 
Esure to pay them £150 compensation they should contact it directly.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to arrange for a replacement of 
Mr and Mrs Ps conservatory or pay them to replace it, with esure bearing the full cost for 
replacing the door and both parties sharing liability for the remaining replacement costs 
on a 50/50 basis.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman