DRN-2852336
The complaint
Mr R complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited held him liable for damage to 
another drivers car. Hes unhappy with the repair costs it paid. And he says that he was 
treated poorly by Calpes assessor due to his race and colour.
What happened
Mr R hit another car whilst manoeuvring into a parking bay to avoid an oncoming car. Calpe 
accepted liability on his behalf as Mr R had admitted that he hit the other car. It wasnt able 
to obtain CCTV evidence as it had been deleted. But it said this wouldnt have added 
anything as liability wasnt in dispute. It reviewed its payment for repairs to the other car and 
agreed to deduct the cost of repairs to an alloy wheel as it couldnt show this was damaged 
in the accident. Calpe denied that its assessor would have been racist.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Calpe 
had settled the other drivers claim as it wouldnt be able to defend it. He thought it had 
justified the costs it had paid for repairs and had reasonably deducted the cost of the alloy 
wheel. And he thought it was entitled to ask Mr R to reimburse these costs as these were 
less than his policy excess. He couldnt say that the assessor had been racist as he had no 
independent evidence to show what happened at the time. 
Mr R replied that he wanted an ombudsman to review his complaint, so its come to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr R feels that he shouldnt be held liable for the accident as he was 
trying to do the right thing. But it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the 
accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply 
to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Mr R 
the same as someone else in his position. 
Calpe is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr R to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr R has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
But in Mr Rs case, I think liability wasnt in dispute. Mr R said he had hit the parked car. I 
cant see that the CCTV footage would have made any difference as it would have confirmed 
what Mr R had told Calpe. 
The circumstances were unfortunate, but Calpe was still obliged to deal with the other 
drivers claim for damage. And so I cant say that its decision to settle the other drivers claim 
was unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr R is responsible for payment of the first part of the claim, up to his £3,000 policy excess. 
So I think Calpe is entitled by the policy terms and conditions to ask Mr R to reimburse its 
outlay up to this limit. We expect an insurer to reasonably justify these costs and challenge 
the other insurers outlay in order to be fair to the consumer and not to add unjustified costs 
to the claim. 
I can see that, following the investigators intervention, Calpe has agreed to reduce its outlay 
costs for the other drivers repairs by removing the unsubstantiated £158.10 cost of repairs 
to an alloy wheel. I think that was fair and reasonable as its engineer agreed that he couldnt 
justify this from the photographs taken before repairs were made. And I think Calpe has 
provided an engineers report to justify the other costs and the associated hire costs. 
However, Calpe also wanted to charge Mr R for its investigation and engineers costs. But I 
dont think this is fair and reasonable. Our approach is that the handling of the claim, also 
known as investigation costs, are part and parcel of providing insurance and so it would be 
unfair for this to be added to the claim. So I asked Calpe to remove a further £128 (its costs 
for an investigator and an engineer) from its charge to Mr R. And Calpe agreed to do this. 
Mr Rs policy had an all sections policy excess so hed responsible for the first part of a claim 
up to £3,000. So I think its fair and reasonable, and in keeping with the policy terms and 
conditions, for Calpe to ask Mr R to repay its outlay for the other insurers justified costs. 
Mr R has described his experience of meeting with the claims investigator. He said he felt 
bullied and treated differently due to his race and colour. I think Calpe reasonably 
investigated this complaint and obtained a statement from the investigator. So there were 
two different versions of events with no independent evidence of what happened. As the 
investigator explained, in that case I cant reasonably say what happened at the time. And so 
I cant say that Calpe did anything wrong. 
Putting things right
I require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to deduct £158.10 unjustified repair costs and its 
£128.00 investigation costs from its charge to Mr R for its claim costs, as its already agreed 
to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its 
already agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman