DRN-3694725
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited. They arent 
happy about the way it dealt with a claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim under their home insurance policy after they had made a 
separate claim under their home emergency insurance policy. They had a leak from a pipe 
that was caused by vermin and their other insurer had to remove a section of flooring in 
order to access and fix the damaged pipe. 
But when Lloyds looked into things it turned down their claim. This was because their policy 
only covered costs incurred to trace and access a leak if the escape of water had caused 
damage to the property. And in this instance the leak didnt cause any damage to their 
property. As Mr and Mrs S werent happy about this they complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr and Mrs S but didnt uphold their claim. She 
eventually decided that Lloyds hadnt acted unreasonably in turning down the claim. This 
was because the policy didnt cover any trace and access claim unless there was damage 
caused to the property.
As Mr and Mrs S didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs S, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr and Mrs S position and frustration and I have a great deal of sympathy 
for the difficult position they found themselves in after a vermin problem. However, insurance 
policies dont cover all eventualities and unfortunately the policy doesnt cover trace and 
access repairs unless the escape of water leak cause damage to the property. 
Mr and Mrs S used another insurance product to deal with the leak from their soil pipe under 
their downstairs bathroom. I understand the leak stemmed from some kind of ongoing 
vermin problem. But there is no suggestion that the leak caused any damage to their 
property and so, in effect, there wasnt an insured peril. And as there wasnt any damage 
caused by the leak then there isnt any cover for trace and access of the leak itself.
I dont know, from the information before me, if they are able to claim for any of the damage 
caused under their other insurance policy. But without any evidence of damage to their 
property caused by the leak I cant say Lloyds have done anything wrong in turning down 
their claim as there wasnt an insured peril.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman