DRN-3588830
The complaint
Mr K complains Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed his personal accounts and recorded 
a CIFAs marker against him. He says this caused him financial loss, including having to 
agree a buy-to-let mortgage with a third-tier lender, as well as considerable distress.
What happened
Mr K also complained about how his limited company was affected by the closure of his 
business account and the trouble he experienced opening a business account on its behalf 
elsewhere. I must make clear, however, that I am only considering the loss Mr K 
experienced as a consumer and personal account holder of Barclays. This is because Mr Ks 
limited company is a separate legal person to him, so its losses arise from a different eligible 
complainant relationship under the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) which set out our 
services jurisdiction.
 
The background facts surrounding Mr Ks complaint about his personal accounts arent in 
dispute, so I find no need to repeat everything which happened here. But in summary:
Mr K held personal accounts with Barclays, including a current account and ISA.
Barclays investigated a payment Mr K received from another customer into his 
personal current account in November 2020. They blocked his current account, and 
after a review decided to close it with immediate effect. They also recorded a CIFAs 
marker against him. They didnt tell Mr K why.
Mr K says the person who sent him the payment was a friend. The friend wanted to 
pay someone they thought was a genuine service provider and asked Mr K to 
forward the payment on because they had reached their daily transaction limit. The 
friend then came to suspect the service provider was a scammer, so they reported 
the matter to Barclays.
Barclays removed the marker after Mr K contacted them following the closure of his 
current account. They let Mr K know it might take around a month for CIFAs records 
to reflect the removal.
Mr K applied for a buy-to-let mortgage during the time the marker was recorded. His 
broker could only recommend a mortgage from a more expensive lender with more 
flexible lending criteria. Mr K took out the mortgage however at a time when Barclays 
had told him they had removed the marker.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They concluded:
Barclays could close Mr Ks personal accounts, but the terms that allowed them to 
close his accounts immediately did not apply, so they should have been closed 
according to the normal notice period. 
Barclays were right to remove the CIFAs marker, but they should award 
compensation for the impact the marker had on Mr K when it was present.
They should pay Mr K £400 to compensate him for both errors.
Barclays agreed to pay £400. Mr K thinks they should pay much more. He says they should 
compensate him for the financial consequences which resulted from taking out a more 
expensive mortgage. His complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint, but I am not directing Barclays to pay more than 
£400. Ill explain why.
Barclays have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account 
is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know their customer and 
verify their sources of income, as well as detect and prevent financial crime.
Barclays will review accounts to comply with their responsibilities. And, its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to accounts to conduct a review - doing so helps prevent 
potential financial loss or other harm that could otherwise result. I find Barclays acted fairly 
by blocking Mr Ks account and they didnt need to tell Mr K what prompted their decision.
The result of Barclays review was they decided to close Mr Ks current account immediately. 
Again, they didnt need to tell Mr K why. But they ought not to have closed his account 
without notice, given it appears Mr K provided evidence to support he wasnt party to a fraud. 
Instead, they should have given him the normal notice period under the accounts terms and 
conditions.
Barclays ought not to have loaded a CIFAs marker in the first place. The evidential threshold 
CIFAs requires is robust and Barclays needed more evidence to meet that standard. If they 
had carried out a more thorough investigation and contacted Mr K about the payment, its 
unlikely the threshold would have been met, so the marker should not have been recorded.
Mr K says Barclays should compensate him for the more expensive mortgage he agreed. 
But I am not holding Barclays liable for this. Mr K knew Barclays said they had removed the 
CIFAs marker but that it might take around a month for this to reflect with CIFAs and credit 
reference agencies. I disagree that he would have thought it would affect him for six years  
that is the time frame for a CIFAs marker to expire if it hasnt been removed. I dont find that 
would have been a reasonable conclusion in the circumstances.
 
Neither do I find there is any evidence to show Mr Ks creditworthiness continues to be 
affected when the CIFAs marker is no longer recorded. But to reiterate, I am not considering 
Mr Ks difficulties in opening a business account for his limited company in this decision. 
That is a loss which pertains to a different legal person due to the effect of incorporation.
Mr K was anxious to secure a mortgage and he was paying a bridging loan. But I am not 
persuaded this is a sufficient reason to not wait for the CIFAs marker to show as removed. 
Neither can I fairly conclude that Mr K would have been able to get the mortgage he wanted 
or that he would have obtained it at the same time as the one he did. A mortgage application 
and approval process is rigorous and dependant on a multitude of lender specific factors. 
So, he may still have had to pay his bridging loan and risked losing the property even if the 
CIFAs marker hadnt been recorded.I agree the existence of the CIFAs marker must have caused Mr K anxiety and I have borne 
in mind what he has said about how he was affected. I find £400 is fair compensation for 
what he was put through and the inconvenience of having his account closed without a 
sufficient notice period. But I am not awarding any more than this because the marker wasnt 
in place for a long time, and Barclays acted promptly to rectify their error.
Putting things right
Subject to Mr K accepting this final decision, I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay him £400 
compensation within 28 days of his acceptance.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr K 
compensation according to my direction above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman