DRN-1535580
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2001. Mr and Mrs S say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S applied for mortgage from YBS in 2001. At the same time, they were sold a 
PPI policy. The policy was free for the first six months. After that it initially cost £17.39 per 
month. The policy covered Mr S against being made involuntarily unemployed. In the event 
of a successful claim the policy could have paid a monthly benefit of £800 for up to 12 
months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
YBS had to make it clear the policy was optional.
Ive looked at the mortgage application from the time and I cant see anything that shows the 
policy was compulsory. The application refers to a leaflet that gave details of the cover 
available. YBS has shown us records of a conversation during which Mr S confirmed his 
employer would pay him up to 26 weeks sick pay if he was too unwell to work. Because Mr S 
thought that was adequate cover against sickness, the PPI was set up to only cover against 
unemployment. There are various quotations on file for different levels of cover. All this 
makes me think the PPI was discussed in some detail and some thought was put into the 
level of cover chosen. I can also see from the mortgage application that Mr and Mrs S 
declined to discuss further life cover or critical illness cover for their mortgage, so it looks like 
they were able to decline the cover if they had wanted to.
The PPI was recommended so I have no doubt the YBS advisor said Mr S should take out 
the unemployment cover. But that isnt the same as saying he had to take it. The cover was 
free for the first six months, so it is possible that Mr and Mrs S decided to take it and then 
chose not to cancel it after the initial free period.
All this makes me think that Mr and Mrs S were most likely made aware the PPI was 
optional. So, I think they chose to take out unemployment cover knowing they didnt have to 
 although I can understand why they cant remember this after so many years.YBS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, so it had to check that the PPI was right for  Mr 
S and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was.        Mr 
S wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, for example he was 
not in an unusual employment situation that would not have been covered.
Mr and Mrs S have told us they had some savings they could rely on. But they chose to keep 
the savings intact rather than use them to reduce their mortgage. So, the savings were likely 
important to them. And the PPI would mean they didnt have to use the savings to pay the 
mortgage if Mr S lost his job.
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for them if Mr S had become unemployed. Ive 
not seen any evidence that the premiums were unaffordable. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs S off taking out the cover.
Mr and Mrs S have said they were not given an opportunity to get alternative quotes. But Ive 
seen that YBS did give quotes for various levels of cover. And if Mr and Mrs S had wanted to 
approach other insurance brokers, I think they would have been able to before the mortgage 
completed.
Mr and Mrs S increased their mortgage several times after the sale but didnt increase the 
PPI cover. But I think it was likely discussed, for example I can see that in 2007 they 
borrowed an additional £12,000. YBS has shown us a form signed by Mr and Mrs S that they 
did not want additional PPI cover for that amount. So, I think Mr and Mrs S chose to maintain 
the cover at its original level until it was cancelled in 2010.
I can see the policy premiums increased over time rising to £34.97 before it was cancelled. 
The premiums would have appeared on Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage statements and from 
experience I think it is likely the policy insurer would have written separately to them if the 
premium increased during the year.
I can see that in YBS final response it mentioned that the policy was cancelled in 2008 when 
it was in fact cancelled in 2010. YBS has acknowledged this was an error and provided a 
copy of a letter addressed to Mr and Mrs S dated 2010 in which it confirmed the policy was 
cancelled.
In summary, I think its likely YBS gave Mr and Mrs S a fair choice over buying the policy, 
and they chose to take it out. I think it was likely to have been right for them and even if YBS 
had given him all the information it should have, theyd have still gone ahead and taken it 
out.
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. But 
YBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because:
When the policy was sold, YBS expected to get a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. 
Because YBS didnt tell Mr and Mrs S that was unfair. To put that right, YBS has paid back 
the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I 
think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman