The complaint
Miss K has complained that since her savings account was opened in 2001, TSB Bank Plc 
didnt offer her an alternative savings account that paid a higher rate of interest.
What happened
In January 2001 Miss Ks mother opened a young saver account for her with TSB. In 2017 
when Miss K was 16, TSB said that the account was automatically converted into an easy 
saver account. 
Also, in 2017, TSBs records show that Miss K went into one of its branches an opened a 
current account and a cash ISA. 
In 2019 TSB responded to Miss Ks complaint. Dissatisfied with the response, Miss K 
represented by her mother, complained to TSB. The complaint was looked into by one of our 
investigators. He explained why he didnt think TSB had done anything wrong.
Miss Ks mother didnt agree, and the investigator responded to the points she had raised. 
He explained that Junior ISAs werent available until 2011. He said that TSBs notes 
recorded that no advice had been provided when the Junior ISA was taken out and it had 
highlighted products that might meet Miss Ks needs.
In response Miss Ks mother said she was referring to a meeting Miss K had when she 
changed her account when she was 16, not when she opened her Junior ISA. 
The case was subsequently passed to me for review and I asked the investigator to make 
further enquiries with Miss Ks mother and TSB. TSB was asked if Miss K had a branch 
meeting when she turned 16 and whether there were any other meetings other than the one 
when she opened her Junior ISA. Copies of any meeting notes were also requested. 
In response TSB said Miss Ks young saver account was automatically converted into an 
instant access account at 16. 
The investigator wrote to Miss Ks mother again and explaining what TSB had said. He also 
explained that the only record of a meeting was in February 2017 when Miss K was 16 and 
opened a current account and a Junior ISA at the same meeting. 
In response Miss Ks mother said there had been a meeting with an employee of the bank 
with her and Miss K. She believed Miss K was 15 at this meeting. The meeting when the ISA 
was opened was instigated by Miss Ks mother. She maintained that if an ISA had been 
suggested at that meeting why hadnt it been suggested by other TSB staff in previous 
years.
DRN-1352374What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ks mother argues on Miss Ks behalf that TSB should since the young saver account 
was opened in 2001; have alerted Miss Ks mother of better savings options that may have 
been available over time. 
She has said that a meeting took place when Miss K was 15 where a Junior ISA should have 
been suggested. I do understand that Miss Ks mother feels strongly about this issue, but I 
must consider all the available evidence to decide whether or not TSB has done anything 
wrong. 
Whilst I accept that what Miss Ks mother has told us is her honest recollection of a meeting 
between her, TSB and Miss K when Miss K was 15, I also have to take into account that 
TSB only has a record a meeting with Miss K in 2017. And Miss Ks mother has 
acknowledged that this meeting took place. Also, TSB told us that that Miss Ks young saver 
account was automatically transferred into an instant access account when she was 16. So, 
I dont think based on this evidence that I can safely say that there was a meeting when Miss 
K was 15, as Miss Ks mother recalls.
So, taking everything, Ive seen into account, Im not satisfied that the evidence suggests 
that TSB advised Miss K and her mother. And in this case, I dont think TSB needed to tell 
Miss K or her mother if better interest rates were available. It seems to me that there has to 
be a certain amount of responsibility on the part of an account holder such as Miss K to 
monitor the interest rate they are getting, and what interest rate they might be able to get 
with their existing provider or elsewhere. So as a result I dont think TSB has done anything 
wrong in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, my decision is not uphold Miss K's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman