DRN-1825604
 
The complaint
Mr Y complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with FirstRand Bank 
Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance ("MotoNovo"), has not been of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr Y took receipt of a used car on 21 November 2018. He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement with MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car had already completed 
about 53,000 miles and was a little over eight years old.
Within three weeks Mr Y had problems with the car. It was recovered to the supplying 
dealership on 21 December 2018 and Mr Y told MotoNovo he wanted to reject the vehicle. 
But in the meantime the dealership repaired a fault with the drive chain and in January 2019 
MotoNovo told him the car was ready to collect and they would not allow it to be rejected.
Later in January Mr Y had further problems with the car. An oil pressure and exhaust control 
fault were diagnosed. In May 2019 he complained again to MotoNovo. He said the Engine 
Management Light (EML) had illuminated and he'd lost power. A third party provider repaired 
the car but they advised that the repair would only be temporary. 
MotoNovo arranged an independent inspection of the car but no fault was found and as they 
were not prepared to uphold Mr Y's complaint he referred it to this service.
Our investigator thought MotoNovo hadn't been reasonable. She understood that they 
thought Mr Y was out of time to refer his complaint to this service but she explained the rules 
allowed him until 14 July 2019 to complain to us and we'd received his complaint before 
then, on 11 June 2019.
She thought MotoNovo should have allowed Mr Y to reject the car in December as there was 
a confirmed fault within 30 days and he had a short term right to reject the car. She didn't 
think he'd authorised a repair as she noted he'd asked to reject the car on 21 December. 
She thought if MotoNovo had told the dealership about this earlier a repair would not have 
been completed. She didn't think it was fair for Mr Y to be disadvantaged by MotoNovo's 
failure to allow him to reject the car when he'd sought to exercise his right in December 
2018.
She therefore suggested that MotoNovo take the car back and terminate Mr Y's contract with 
them. She said they should refund his deposit and add 8% interest to that refund and she 
also thought they should pay Mr Y £150 compensation in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience he'd been caused.
MotoNovo didn't accept the investigator's opinion so the complaint was referred for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint MotoNovo so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Y acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it.  
I'm persuaded for the same reasons the investigator was that this complaint was made to 
this service in time.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr Y. This wasn't a 
new car and it had completed over 50,000 miles but I don't think a reasonable person would 
expect to break down in the first few weeks of ownership.
Mr Y had a short term right to reject the car if anything was wrong with it when he took 
receipt as long as he reported that in the first thirty days. Im persuaded that there was 
something wrong with this car as it was recovered to the dealership on 21 December 2018 
by the breakdown services and they repaired a faulty drive chain. Mr Y told MotoNovo he 
wanted to reject the car on 21 December; I don't think there's evidence that Mr Y accepted 
the repairs that were completed and I think MotoNovo should have accepted his request to 
reject the vehicle.
And, even if I'm wrong about that, the relevant legislation gives the business only one 
chance to repair a fault that is present at the point of supply. I think that opportunity was in 
December when the drive chain was repaired. Relevant legislation does not give a business 
one chance to repair each separate fault that may occur. Whether a vehicle is of satisfactory 
quality when supplied refers to the vehicle as a whole not each separate component. Indeed 
the more separate faults - the more likely it is the vehicle isnt of satisfactory quality. I've 
seen a breakdown service diagnostic from January when there was a report of low oil 
pressure and I think on balance, as Mr Y had only recently taken ownership of the car it was 
most likely this fault was developing or present at the point of supply. As MotoNovo had 
used up their one chance to repair the vehicle this was another point at which rejection 
would have been appropriate.
Mr Y has been inconvenienced by these issues. I think MotoNovo should have accepted the 
rejection of the car much earlier and he's had to progress his complaint to this service unecessarily. So, in the circumstances, I think MotoNovo should pay him some 
compensation and I think £150 is about right.
Mr Y has also raised concerns to us about a further fault that's occurred with the car's starter 
motor. As MotoNovo haven't had a chance to review this yet he'll need to refer that part of 
his complaint to them if he wants them to consider it further.
Putting things right
Mr Y has been inconvenienced by these issues. I think MotoNovo should have accepted the 
rejection of the car much earlier and he's had to progress his complaint to this service 
unnecessarily. So, in the circumstances, I think MotoNovo should pay him some 
compensation and I think £150 is about right.
He may need the deposit he paid to fund an alternative vehicle. So this should be returned to 
him and MotoNovo should add 8% interest as he's been deprived of that money whilst 
funding a vehicle that wasn't of satisfactory quality.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above I uphold this complaint and tell FirstRand bank Limited to:
terminate the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr Y;
refund Mr Y's deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr Y £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he's 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Y's credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman