DRN-3289183
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains that TSB Bank plc hasnt provided a reliable internet 
banking service, and this has caused it loss and inconvenience.
What happened
The director of M explains that there have been problems since the account was opened. 
The registration for internet banking has been lost, the payment recipients have 
disappeared, and a new debit card was cancelled. There have been repeated systems 
outages which hes detailed and uncertainty about whether payments have gone through 
and what the correct account balance available is. M has received misleading letters.
TSB has apologised for whats happened. It had contacted its IT department about the 
issues. It said that it would recommend M used its mobile App. The card was cancelled due 
to human error. And it had provided feedback about a letter which was for new registrants. It 
said that it is clear that we are not meeting your expectations as a business bank. It paid M 
£250 in compensation. It noted that M had said that it had incurred significant losses and 
asked for evidence about these.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that this complaint 
was by M and it couldnt suffer distress. Hed considered our published guidance about 
compensation. We wouldnt be covering time spent. He thought that £250 represented the 
inconvenience caused.
M didnt agree. It said that it was difficult to equate the amount offered to the time, effort and 
distress caused by TSB. The director was effectively the business here. This wasnt 
adequate redress in the face of unacceptable service. M had a further issue and it had seen 
on social media that other customers had experienced problems too.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the problems experienced by M. We provide informal dispute 
resolution and dont make punitive awards. And I can only look in this complaint at the 
impact on M which brings this complaint and the points up to the time of the final response 
from TSB.
M has detailed a number of instances when internet banking was simply not available. I dont 
doubt that was inconvenient. It wouldnt have been able to make payments then. But its not 
shown that this caused any financial loss to the business. I would reasonably expect M to 
look to mitigate any problems in making time critical payments  for example using other 
methods. I also think that unfortunately over time M would also reasonably become aware of 
the level of service that TSB was able to provide and the impact of system outages. Thats 
not to excuse those but it would be an indication of what to expect. I accept that having to re-
register and set up recipients would involve administration and shouldnt have been 
necessary. And that M received confusing correspondence.
We dont usually make awards for time spent and if we do this tends to be at modest rates. 
Ive not been given any evidence that M had to turn work away or lost business. Legally M is 
structured as a separate entity to the director and a limited company cant suffer distress. 
So, Im looking here at the inconvenience to M.
Our investigator has referred to our published guidance about compensation which Ive 
taken into account. And I also apply my own judgement having considered everything that M 
has provided in coming to an overall view. Im afraid having done so I find that TSBs 
response to the complaint was reasonable and I wont be requiring it to pay more than it has 
already.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that TSB Bank plc need not 
take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman