DRN-3185546
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly 
declined their claim on their home insurance policy.
What happened
On 15 February 2020, Mr and Mrs B first noticed that the floor next to the shower in their en 
suite bathroom was excessively wet. They immediately stopped using the shower and dried 
the floor. They left it to dry out further over the next few days. But at that point they noticed 
that the moisture had penetrated the underlay and that some of the tiles had started to lift. 
Mr and Mrs B said that they couldnt work out the source of the issue. But they inspected the 
grouting and sealant and found it to be intact and in good order.
So on 24 February 2020, they recorded a claim with Lloyds under their home insurance 
policy. They said the leak had damaged the en suite floor and carpets in two of their 
bedrooms. 
As coronavirus restrictions were in place, Mr B carried out an initial investigation to assess 
the damage. He said that he found the sealant and grouting to be in good order. He said that 
when he cut away the sealant along the outside edge of the shower tray and lifted loose floor 
tiles, significant damage to the plywood underlay was revealed. So he felt this indicated that 
the leak had been in progress for some time. Mr B said he couldnt identify the source of the 
leak. 
Mr B said he then called Lloyds to discuss the fact that he hadnt found the root cause of the 
leak. He told them that hed have to remove the shower tray, cubicle and tiling in order to 
continue his investigation. He said that Lloyds agreed that he should carry on his 
investigation. Mr B said that during his second investigation he noted that the rubber washer 
seal on the waste trap had been compromised. He felt this was the source of the leak. Mr B 
sent photos of his investigations to Lloyds. And he provided a quote for the required repair 
work on 24 July 2020.
Lloyds then appointed their own assessor to carry out an inspection in August 2020. The 
assessor felt that water had been escaping from the sealant and grouting. They said that 
there was black staining on the timbers. And that the plaster was wet above the waste pipe. 
They also noted that there was no water residue on the waste or around the area. They said 
that if the waste had been leaking there wouldve been evidence around there, but there 
wasnt. The assessor noted that there was plenty of evidence to suggest that water had 
been escaping over the shower tray itself. After reviewing the assessment Lloyds declined 
the claim for a failure of sealant and grouting.
Mr and Mrs B felt that Lloydss decision to decline was unfair. So they complained. Lloyds 
responded on 24 August 2020. They said that after reviewing all the information they 
couldnt uphold the complaint. They acknowledged that the photos Mr and Mrs B had 
provided showed that the sealant was intact. But said that that didnt mean that the tray 
hadnt been recently resealed. Lloyds said that their assessors photos showed staining 
where the shower tray would sit. And that there was no water residue around the waste 
area, or damage to the ceiling below the shower, both of which they said would be expected 
if the waste was the source of the leak. 
Mr B produced a detailed report on the claim dated 20 December 2020. Lloyds issued a 
further response on 27 January 2021. They still felt that the claim should be declined. 
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. She felt that Lloyds were entitled to rely on the opinion of their assessor. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigator. They didnt consider that the assessor was 
objective. They felt that although the damage resembled failure of the sealant, it wasnt. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this case has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs B. 
Ill explain how I came to my decision.
For any insurance claim to be successful, the policyholder must establish that they have a 
valid claim. In essence, the policyholder must show that an insured event occurred which 
caused damage or a loss. If the policyholder is unable to meet this requirement the claim will 
fail at that stage. It is only once the policyholder has established a valid claim that the insurer 
is required to demonstrate that a policy exclusion applies to defeat it. 
The cost of repairing the damage from a leak isnt covered by the policy simply because the 
damage occurred whilst the policy was in existence. The damage would only be covered if 
Mr and Mrs B can show that the damage occurred due to an insured event. 
To help me decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably, Ive considered how they 
reached their decision to decline. To do this, Ive reviewed all the information Mr and Mrs B 
provided. Ive also reviewed the policy terms and conditions, the assessors report and other 
correspondence related to this complaint. 
I first looked at whether Lloyds acted within the terms and conditions of the policy when 
dealing with Mr and Mrs Bs claim. The policy does provide cover for Escape of Water 
damage under certain circumstances. But the following exclusion applies, amongst others:
What we dont cover
Damage caused by the failure or lack of sealant and/ or grout.
Lloyds declined the claim on the basis that their assessor considered that the leak had been 
caused by the failure of the sealant and grouting. So Ive carefully reviewed that assessment 
in more detail. And Ive also considered the detailed information Mr B provided.
Lloyds assessors report wasnt particularly detailed. But it was clear that the assessor was 
confident that failure of the sealant and grouting had caused the leak. After his assessment, 
he said: this is definitely escaping from the sealant. He also reported: There is so much 
mould growth which indicates that the water has been spilling out over the edge & all around 
and not the waste itself. There is no evidence of staining on the ceiling below, around the waste trap itself or the hole cut in the floor to allow the waste to protrude through.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with this assessment. Mr B said that the photos hed taken before 
he removed the shower tray show that the sealant was in good order. And that it wasnt the 
cause of the leak. He also said that the photos he took during his second investigation show 
that the leak started at the waste trap. Mr B considered that the evidence showed that there 
was a wicking effect which caused the water to travel upwards. Mr B felt that hed provided 
enough evidence that the leak came from the waste trap seal and not from a failure of the 
sealant or grouting. Mr B also said that by the time Lloyds assessor carried out his 
inspection, all of the objective evidence on the condition of the shower tray sealant and 
grouting had been removed. So he felt that the assessment was subjective and not based on 
evidence. He felt that Lloyds needed to provide objective evidence as to the root cause of 
the leak. And if they couldnt he felt they should cover the claim. 
Lloyds asked another assessor to review Mr Bs evidence. After doing that, the assessor 
said that the evidence showed that sealant failure had caused the leak, not a leaking waste 
trap. He noted the following:
1. Water staining marks and rot damage are constant in the timber stud and supporting 
framework around the perimeter of the shower tray, indicating that gradual water 
ingress was taking place along the run of the shower sealant, rather than the single 
shower waste location. This damage is a higher level and remote from the position of 
the shower waste. Furthermore you can see the amount of staining to the exposed 
sides of the shower tray, which is also consistent long the length in pattern and 
nature.
2. There is no graduation of damage or staining from the position of the waste in the 
bathroom floor to the remote higher perimeter timber stud work / sides of the shower 
tray.
3. A leaking shower waste pipe would not cause the above noted location and pattern 
of staining and rot damage, because the leak would drip directly down the waste trap 
and drip on to the top side of the ceiling plaster board of the room below causing a 
stain, which would become apparent and worse each time the shower was used. 
Everyone agrees there is no stain to the plasterboard ceiling below, so I can't accept 
the customer's view that the waste trap was leaking, rather than the shower sealant 
failing.
4. The amount of damage and water staining to timber studwork is not consistent with 
the customer's idea of water 'wicking up' through sound insulation from the alleged 
wet floor. There's no evidence damage or staining to floor, to support this theory, as 
a huge amount of water would need to have sat across the floor to cause this affect 
and thus there would be evidence of this amount of water having been present on the 
floor. The photos certainly dont support this theory.
Mr and Mrs B provided further information to our investigator. They said that as the sealant 
was relatively new, the likelihood of failure was low. They felt this supported their view that 
the sealant hadnt failed. They also told this service that 18 months after initial repairs, 
thered been no further leaks and the sealant remained in excellent condition.
Ive considered everything both parties have said about the cause of the leak. While I 
acknowledge that the initial assessment report doesnt provide much information or detail, 
Im satisfied that the assessor did eventually provide a detailed opinion about why the source 
of the leak wasnt the waste trap. As I mentioned earlier, its not up to Lloyds to provide objective evidence as to the root 
cause of the leak, as Mr and Mrs B have suggested. Its up to Mr and Mrs B to show they 
have a valid claim. But Id expect Lloyds to take account of all the evidence and then to 
decide whether they were liable for the claim. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Lloyds 
did this. I acknowledge that Lloyds have relied on the opinion of their assessor, rather than 
Mr B. But, on balance, I consider that the assessors explanation was more likely than not to 
reflect what happened. That doesnt mean that I dont consider that Mr B presented 
reasonable arguments about why he considered that the source of the leak was the failure of 
the rubber seal in the waste trap. It simply means that I find the assessors explanation to be 
more persuasive.
Based on everything Ive seen, I consider that Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably when they 
declined the claim. So Im not going to ask them to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman