DRN-2938428
The complaint
Miss I has complained about the price increase AXA Insurance UK plc applied at renewal to
her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss I bought her home insurance policy through a broker. In 2017 Miss I made a
subsidence claim with the underwriter of her policy, AXA.
At renewal in September 2017 and 2018, Miss Is premium went up, which AXA says was
due to the reduction in Miss Is No Claims Discount, but not as a result of the open claim.
At renewal in 2019, Miss Is premium went up significantly from £467.47 to £1,045.58. Miss I
raised a complaint and asked us to look at things for her.
Our investigator explained that AXA as the underwriter of the policy is entitled to re assess is
products and the premium it charges. And he accepted that Miss Is policy was sold to her
through a broker. However, he thought AXA should have taken the necessary steps to allow
Miss Is policy to continue on the previous terms. He kept in mind one of the principles in the
guidance by the Association of British Insurers (ABI) on the continuation of cover following
subsidence claims: to ensure that policyholders wouldnt be left to seek cover in the
insurance market as a new customer. This is particularly important if there has been a
recent, or open subsidence claim in situ  as such customers pose a greater risk to insurers.
The investigator recommended AXA do the following:
Revise and re-rate Miss Is current policy in line with the way the original
policy wouldve been rated, had it been in place to date.
If there is any refund of surplus premiums, these should be paid directly to
Miss I.
Simple interest at a rate of 8% per year should be added to any refund,
calculated from the date Miss I made the payment to the date of the complaint
settlement
AXA didnt agree. It said as the policy was sold by a broker, Miss I was the brokers
customer and AXA couldnt contact Miss I directly. In any event, AXA said the broker
couldnt have offered Miss I an alternative AXA product at renewal in 2019 as the product
was no longer in use. AXA offered renewal terms under its re-rated product. So it said it
acted correctly. AXA said the broker can offer Miss I insurance from a range of insurers, but
AXA can only offer insurance under the product available at the time.
Miss I said that AXA gave her a different reason for the increase in premium. It told her this
was due to the claim being open for so long, which she feels is unfair as this is outside of her
control.
Miss I says she tried to compare the price she was paying AXA with other insurers which
was futile as she said no new insurer would provide a quote, due to the subsidence claim.
Miss I feels AXA misled her as to why it increased her premium.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 June 2021. I thought AXA had acted reasonably. So I 
didnt intend to uphold Miss Is complaint. 
AXA agreed with my provisional decision. Miss I didnt agree. She says it wasnt explained to 
her as to the impact of her NCD being reduced. Miss I says it feels unfair that an insurer can 
charge what they like  as she cant get insurance elsewhere. She wants clarification that 
the increase in premium is reasonable and just.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss I has raised a complaint against the broker and this has been investigated separately
by this service.
AXA has confirmed that it didnt increase the premium Miss I paid at renewal in 2017 and
2018 due to the open subsidence claim. It says that the increases from £266.81 (2016) to
£395.84 (2017) to £467.47 (2018) were due to the reduction in Miss Is NCD as a result of
the open claim.
Both things: an open claim and a reduction in the number of No Claims years can have a
separate negative impact on the price of insurance. The increase in premium due to the 
reduction in the NCD wasnt significant compared to the rise in premium in 2019. I can see 
that the number of years NCD Miss I had and the subsidence claim from 2017 was recorded 
on her renewal documents sent to her by the broker in 2019.
AXA says that it moved to a new rating structure in 2019. This is something an insurer can
do and we cant interfere with a businesss commercial decisions. As a result of the rating
change, AXA was able to offer a policy to Miss I on renewal terms, but the rating change
meant that the cost to provide cover was much higher. AXA says it wouldnt have offered
Miss I a new policy in 2019 due to the subsidence claim. It says that even without the
subsidence claim, Miss I would have paid more for insurance in 2019 as a result of AXAs 
rerating structure.
As the investigator explained, AXA has provided us with information which is business
sensitive to show that the premium it charged Miss I was correct in line with the changes it
made to its product. And we cant share this with Miss I. However, having considered the
information AXA has provided, Im satisfied that AXA has treated Miss I as it would any other
customer in the same circumstances.
Under the Association of British Insurers (ABI) guidance, the current insurer dealing with a
subsidence claim should commit to working with policyholders to manage ongoing
subsidence risk and maintain cover.
As the product Miss I was insured under before renewal in 2019 was no longer available, I
cannot ask AXA to provide a manual policy for Miss I. And as it continued to offer insurance
at renewal  albeit at a much higher premium - I cant say that AXA has failed to follow the
guidance of the ABI as Miss I was able to maintain cover.
I appreciate that AXA may have told Miss I that the reason why the premium went up was
due to the claim remaining open. But having considered the underwriting information its
provided, Im satisfied that AXA hasnt acted unreasonably. I understand Miss I is unhappy that she has paid significantly more for cover since 2019. But 
as I explained in my provisional decision, it is not our role to tell insurers what to charge for 
cover. They can decide what risk they are prepared to take on  and set a price to reflect the 
cost of that risk to them. AXA has shown that its treated Miss I as it would any other 
customer in the same position by providing underwriting evidence of the method used to 
calculate the premium it charged. So I cant say it has acted unfairly. 
I understand Miss I is very disappointed with AXAs decision. But I dont think it acted 
unreasonably. So in line with my provisional decision, my final decision is that Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman