DRN-3639360
The complaint
Mr P is a sole trader. He has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QEL) unfairly turned down his 
business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr P has been helped in bringing this complaint by a representative. For ease of reading, Ill 
refer to all actions and comments as being those of Mr P.
What happened
Mr P held business interruption insurance with QEL. He claimed on his policy after his 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
QEL turned down Mr Ps claim as it said the policy primarily covered business interruption as 
a result of damage, and Covid-19 hadnt caused damage. 
Unhappy with QELs response, Mr P brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of his claim. 
Mr P asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr Ps business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if QEL has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr Ps claim.
Damage
The core business interruption insurance cover under the policy covers loss of income as a 
result of damage by any of the insured events to trade contents, glass, buildings or property 
within the vicinity of Mr Ps premises which prevented or hindered access to or use of Mr Ps 
premises. The policy defines damage as loss or damage.
I havent seen anything to indicate that the interruption to Mr Ps business was as a result of 
damage to his trade contents, buildings or property in the vicinity. So I think QEL acted fairly 
and reasonably in deciding that this section didnt provide cover. 
Notifiable diseases
The policy goes on to say that the definition of damage includes some additional events. The 
most relevant of these covers a loss of income due to a notifiable disease at the insured 
premises. Notifiable disease is written in italics which means it has a specific definition within 
the policy. The policy says that a notifiable disease is an illness sustained by a person 
resulting from any of the specified diseases listed. The list of diseases doesnt include Covid-
19. 
Given Covid-19 might not have been in existence at the time the policy was drafted, I 
wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of diseases. But there are similar policies on the 
market that provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which 
cover all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mr Ps 
policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there 
is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new 
diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all 
and any new diseases and therefore I think QEL has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy when finding this doesnt cover Mr Ps claim. 
I recognise that this isnt the answer Mr P was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require QEL to pay Mr Ps claim as it isnt covered by the 
policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman