DRN-4108135
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with how Covea Insurance plc dealt with a claim he made under his pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E had a lifetime pet insurance policy with Covea to cover his dog, who Ill call B. The 
policy year started on 30 November 2017 and renewed yearly. So, renewing each 
30 November.
Mr E has explained that on 20 November 2022 he noticed that one of Bs left legs was 
injured. As Mr E and B were away from home when the injury was noticed Mr E said he took 
B to a vet, local to where they were staying at the time.
Mr E said the local vet suspected a cruciate ligament issue and told Mr E to get B booked 
into see his regular vet when they returned home  which Mr E did on 25 November 2022. B 
was then booked in to have X-rays around a week later.
On 1 December 2022, the day before the X-rays were due to take place, Mr E said one of 
Bs right legs also began to suffer from problems of lameness.
The X-rays went ahead on 2 December 2022 as planned, and the vet noted that B had 
cruciate ligament disease in both legs, and recommended surgery, which Mr E agreed to go 
ahead with. The surgery was carried out over two occasions, one in January 2023 and one 
in February 2023  with one leg being dealt with first, and then the other. The total cost of 
the treatment was £7,000. 
Given the above, Mr E made a claim on his pet insurance policy. Mr Es claim was for 
£7,000  and based on the invoice provided for the treatment, was for treatment costs from 
December 2022 onwards.
Covea considered Mr Es claim and accepted it. But said the most it was able to pay out for 
the claim was £4,000. It said this was because the treatment Mr E was claiming for all fell 
into one policy year. And the maximum benefit that could be paid for vet fees to treat a 
particular illness or injury in one policy year was £4,000. 
Mr E didnt think this was fair. He felt the full claimed amount of £7,000 should be paid. Mr E 
said this was because Bs left leg was injured in one policy year  with that policy year 
ending on 30 November 2022. And Bs right leg was injured in the following policy year. As 
there was a maximum benefit for veterinary fees for an illness or injury of £4,000 in each 
policy year, and Mr E considered the loss fell in two separate years, he felt Covea had dealt 
with the claim settlement incorrectly.
Covea didnt agree. It said that claims were paid based on the date of veterinary treatment, 
not the date when a medical condition started. Covea said the claimed for veterinary fees for 
Bs cruciate ligament treatment were all incurred in the same policy year. So, it maintained 
its position that the maximum benefit of £4,000 applied to Mr Es claim. 
Mr E remained unhappy with Coveas position on the matter. And he said that Coveas 
position meant that the insurance policy didnt provide any cover for incidents that occurred 
in the last month of the policy year  where B fell ill but couldnt be treated within the policy 
dates. As Mr E remained dissatisfied, he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
Covea had dealt with Mr Es loss in line with the terms and condition of Mr Es policies. So, 
they didnt recommend Covea do anything differently. 
Mr E didnt agree and reiterated his point about not having any cover for the latter part of the 
policy. 
Because Mr E didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, I dont require Covea to do 
anything differently. 
I appreciate this is going to be disappointing for Mr E  its clear he feels strongly about the 
matter. But Id like to reassure the parties that I have considered all information provided by 
both parties when coming to my decision. Ive explained my decision below  but only 
referred to what is necessary to explain my reasoning.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Covea acted in line with these requirements, when it agree to 
settle Mr Es claim up to a limit of £4,000, but no further.
Ive also reviewed Mr Es policy, to see what cover it provides. On doing so, Im aware that it 
does provide cover for veterinary fees as follows:
What we will pay
The cost of Veterinary fees for the veterinary treatment your pet has received during the 
policy year to treat an illness or injury up to the maximum benefit.
Cover for any ongoing incident will continue into a new policy year providing you renew 
your policy and continue to pay the premiums due. 
I can also see the maximum benefit is defined as the most Covea will pay during the policy 
year, as shown on the certificate of insurance, for the relevant section of cover. Mr Es policy 
certificate notes the benefit as £4,000 for veterinary fees. So, Im satisfied this is the 
maximum payment Mr E will receive under the policy each year, based on the above policy 
terms.
Covea has dealt with Mr Es claim under one policy year. So, Ive considered whether this 
was fair. And Im satisfied it was.I say this because the policy does explain the maximum amount Covea will pay for treatment 
is based on the maximum benefit applicable on the date the treatment was carried out. Bs 
treatment was carried out in December 2022 and January and February 2023. So, was in 
the new policy year. The maximum benefit at that point was, as above, £4,000 for vet fees 
for the treatment of an illness or injury. It is usual for lifetime pet insurance policies to pay 
based on the date of treatment, and for policies to have a maximum benefit amount. And Im 
satisfied Mr Es policy documentation was clear on the cover the policy provided. So, I dont 
think Covea did anything wrong here by acting in line with the policy terms when it settled 
Mr Es claim.
Mr E has said that he essentially didnt have any cover under his policy for the latter part of 
this policy. But I dont agree. The policy provides cover for treatment fees up to the renewal 
date, as well as cover for various other risks. So, the policy was providing a benefit to Mr B 
right up until its end. Its just on this particular occasion the claim fell into the new policy year. 
So, this point doesnt alter the outcome of this complaint.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Covea Insurance plc to do anything differently in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman