DRN-3593593
The complaint
Mr U complained that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED trading as Fund Ourselves (FOL) lent 
to him irresponsibly when it provided a loan that was unaffordable for him. 
What happened
Mr U took out a single loan with FOL as follows: 
start dateNumber of monthly 
instalmentsloan 
amountinstalment amount
18/12/2021 5 £800 £318.72
Mr U complained that FOL lent to him without doing sufficient checks into his credit history. 
He felt that if FOL had asked to see his bank statements before lending to him it wouldve 
realised that his spending was out of control, he couldnt afford the loan and that lending to 
him was irresponsible. 
FOL didnt agree it had done anything wrong. 
One of our adjudicators investigated this loan. In brief summary, she thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Us circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Mr U for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
there wasnt anything in the information Mr U provided, or the information FOL 
shouldve been aware of, which meant that FOL shouldve taken steps to verify the 
information Mr U had declared
the number of loans Mr U took, the amounts they were for and the period of time he 
was borrowing meant his loan history, on its own, wasnt enough to have shown FOL 
that he mightve been experiencing underlying financial difficulty. 
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Us complaint.
Mr U disagreed with our adjudicators view. Mainly, he felt that FOL relied on out of date 
earnings information without checking it or asking for proof. And he said if FOL had checked 
his credit file it would have been able to see a couple of defaults already on his account. 
He asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint and make a final decision. So it comes 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr U that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain why I say this.
FOL provided Mr U with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and it needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. In practice, this means that it should 
have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr U could repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. 
Theres no set list of checks that are proportionate. Lenders arent automatically required to 
carry out a full financial review, and check bank statements for instance, in every case. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how 
much was being lent to Mr U, the repayment amounts and Mr Us income and expenditure. 
And, for a first loan, less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Us complaint. 
Before lending to Mr U, FOL asked him for information about his financial situation. FOL 
independently checked the amount of Mr Us declared income with a credit reference agency 
which drew on information from his bank account. I dont think that FOLs lending decision 
was unfair based on the results of its income verification check.
 
FOL asked Mr U about his regular outgoings, including his housing costs, bills, food 
shopping and what he paid towards supporting any dependants, as well as the cost of any 
other credit. His declared monthly spending came to around £700. 
Using this information, FOL was able to see what Mr Us monthly budget typically looked 
like. It worked out how much money Mr U would have available to spend after paying his 
normal monthly outgoings and other debt and calculated that his monthly surplus was 
around £1,000. So FOL was satisfied that the loan repayments for this loan shouldve been 
comfortably affordable for Mr U.
Mr U didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted FOL to any 
underlying money problems. It wasnt an unusually large loan, bearing in mind that Mr U had 
told FOL his monthly income was £1,700. Mr U was planning to pay the loan back over 
5 months  which, broadly speaking, was a reasonably foreseeable period of time. I dont 
think FOL had any good reason to think Mr Us financial situation was likely to change 
significantly during the loan term. Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan term, and the information FOL 
had on record for Mr U, this didnt point to the loan being unaffordable for Mr U. After taking 
into account all the information FOL had gathered, it looked like Mr U shouldve had around 
£681 left each month after paying for this loan. So I dont think that FOLs lending decision 
was unfair or unreasonable.
FOL mightve wondered why someone with that much disposable income wanted to apply 
for an £800 high cost loan. But I think its fair to say there are lots of reasons why someone 
in Mr Us position might want a loan like this quickly  possibly in an emergency situation or 
to cover a one-off unexpected cost for instance. So I cant fairly say this is a reason for me to 
uphold the complaint.
Im very sorry that Mr U had a problem with debt and that making the repayments on this 
loan turned out to be difficult for him. I accept that in reality Mr Us actual circumstances 
werent fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the other information FOL 
obtained. 
But FOL was entitled to decide Mr Us lending application based on the information I would 
expect it to have found out at the time. And although Mr U feels strongly that FOL shouldve 
done more or better checks, I dont think proportionate checks in these circumstances 
wouldve required FOL to probe any more deeply into Mr Us finances or ask Mr U to prove 
what he was declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or 
omitted to say) about his financial circumstances.
In other words, I wouldnt reasonably expect FOL to have asked to see all the information, 
including payslips and bank statements, that Mr U has sent me. These show his earnings 
and reveal in more detail how the £1,700 or so that was paid into his bank account over the 
month was actually made up. But since that wasnt information that Mr U told FOL about, 
then FOL couldnt have known about it and I cant fairly say that FOL shouldve known about 
it. So, I dont think that FOL acted unreasonably when it decided to lend this loan to Mr U. 
Ive thought carefully about whether FOL acted in any other way that wasnt fair and 
reasonable. Mr U mentioned that when he asked FOL to reduce his monthly repayments it 
agreed a new payment plan. This seems fair to me in the circumstances. I havent seen 
anything to make me think this is a case where it would be fair and reasonable for me to 
award any redress. 
I take this opportunity to remind FOL that if Mr U needs further time to pay what he owes 
then it should treat him positively and sympathetically in any discussions. If Mr U would like 
help to manage his finances theres more information about ways to access free debt advice 
and other assistance on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
I am sorry that Mr U has been going through a difficult time. I understand that what Ive said 
will come as a disappointment to him. But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done 
will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 Susan Webb
Ombudsman