DRN-3832347
The complaint
Mr B complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with his branch visit and complains that 
it recorded his address incorrectly.
What happened
Mr B says he attended a HSBC branch in October 2021 as HSBC had been writing to him at 
an incorrect address. He says he became involved in an incident with another customer 
which he says was not his fault. But says HSBC told him to leave. Mr B says HSBC didnt 
retain video footage of the visit which would have showed that he was not at fault. He would 
like compensation for the distress he was caused.
HSBC says it has a duty to protect its staff and customers. It says the address was provided 
by Mr B and so doesnt accept making a mistake. HSBC says it hasnt acted unfairly and has 
closed Mr Bs account.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mr B had provided the address details and says there is no video 
footage of the incident. The investigator thought the relationship has broken down between 
Mr B and HSBC and the account had been closed which is what Mr B said he wanted in 
branch.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and says HSBC ought to have retained the video footage and 
also says the investigator has the events in branch the wrong way around.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at HSBCs records and can see that it opened an account for Mr B using the 
address details he provided. I cant be sure in those circumstances that HSBC made a 
mistake in setting the account up and cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for letters being 
sent to an incorrect address. I appreciate this is not the main part of this complaint.
The main part of Mr Bs complaint is about the events in branch in October 2021. I make 
clear to Mr B that there is no video footage of the events and I accept that it would have 
been helpful for HSBC to retain such footage in these circumstances. But I also think it 
unlikely to have sound just vision and so its unlikely the exact circumstances of what took 
place would have been captured. I also think its up to HSBC to decide what action it takes 
when it considers its duties towards its staff and customers. I appreciate Mr B says the other 
customer was at fault, but HSBC says Mr B also behaved inappropriately. I cant be sure 
what took place and so cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for making a mistake or acting 
unfairly.
I can see that both Mr B and HSBC wished to close the account. I am satisfied that is what 
took place and Mr Bs account was closed. So, Im satisfied to that extend Mr B achieved 
what he wanted.
Overall, I cant be sure HSBC made a mistake about the address issue and that it was 
reasonably entitled to close Mr Bs account following what took place in branch. It follows 
that I cant fairly order HSBC to pay compensation as Mr B would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman