DRN-4384627
The complaint
Mr T and the estate of Mrs T are unhappy that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited declined a claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T and the late Mrs T booked a holiday and took out insurance. At the relevant time Mrs T 
had a terminal diagnosis for lung cancer. She also had other pre-existing conditions. Whilst 
they were away Mrs T became very unwell with sepsis and needed hospital treatment.
Red Sands said, in summary, Mrs T had failed to declare her medical history and declined 
cover. Mr and Mrs T complained but Red Sands maintained their decision to decline the 
claim. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs T complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what happened and considered the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). He thought Mr and Mrs T had not 
taken reasonable care when answering the questions and recommended Red Sands 
proportionately settled their claim. This was on the basis that Mr and Mrs T would have been 
charged a much higher premium if the condition had been declared.
Mr T didnt agree. He said hed answered the questions correctly and declared the 
conditions. He highlighted the questions on the policy schedule confirmed this. He also said 
that Red Sands had no medical evidence of a link between Mrs Ts lung cancer and the 
sepsis she developed on holiday. He thought Red Sands system ought to have flagged that 
there was a discrepancy between the screening questions documented on the schedule and 
the fact that no pre-existing medical conditions were covered under the policy. He felt that 
hed been misled. So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In September 2023 I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
Im very sorry to hear that Mrs T sadly passed away during the time that the Financial
Ombudsman Service was investigating this complaint. Id like to offer my 
condolences to Mr T and his family.
Im intending to uphold Mr Ts complaint in part and direct Red Sands to put things 
right in a different way. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs T contacted their usual insurer when they planned their trip. However, 
due to Mrs Ts pre-existing medical conditions, they couldnt insure Mrs T. They were 
referred to a website (the website) which offered policies underwritten by Red 
Sands.
Mr T completed a medical declaration which comprised of six questions. The 
answers to those questions are recorded on the second page of the policy schedule. 
It says:
Have you or anyone in your party:
1. Taken any prescription medication or received medical treatment in the 
last 2 years  yes
2. Attended a medical practitioners surgery, hospital or clinic (out-patient or 
in-patient)  yes
3. Awaiting any medical treatment or investigation  yes
4. Ever had or have any stress, anxiety, depression or psychiatric condition 
such as eating disorders, drug or alcohol abuse or mental instability for 
which You have ever been treated or diagnosed  no
5. Been diagnosed by a medical practitioner as suffering from a terminal 
illness  yes
6. How long is the terminal prognosis from the date of return from your trip  
more than six months.
The policy schedule also has a heading, Medical Conditions and underneath it says, 
No pre-existing medical conditions covered.
Mr T says he added the medical conditions as required. Red Sands said that in the 
sales journey, where a medical condition was added, Mr T would need to click save 
to ensure that the medical condition remains on the policy. They said Mr T would be 
unable to continue with the quotation until this is done unless the condition has been 
removed.
Im not dealing with the sale of the policy via the website and the sales journey as 
part of this complaint. That isnt something that Red Sands is responsible for. If Mr T 
has concerns about the online sales process, including why the conditions werent 
passed to Red Sands, hell need to make a complaint to the seller of the policy.
However, as the underwriter of the policy, Red Sands is responsible for ensuring that 
Mr T was given enough information to decide if the policy was right for him. That 
includes giving him information that is clear fair and not misleading.
I think the schedule, in the very specific circumstances of this case, was misleading. 
It captures that Mr T had declared information about pre-existing conditions, including 
a terminal diagnosis. So, I can understand why Mr T thought he was covered as the 
schedule indicates hed declared a number of conditions. I dont think it would have 
been clear to Mr T that something had gone wrong.
The schedule refers to no pre-existing conditions being covered. It doesnt say that 
no pre-existing conditions were declared. So, I can understand why Mr T didnt 
realise that there was no cover for the pre-existing conditions particularly as the 
schedule included the medical declaration Ive set out above. I think if the schedule 
had been clearer Mr T would have realised there was a problem with the medical screening and would been able to address this with Red Sands. That means theyd 
have paid an additional premium of over £1000 to cover Mrs Ts medical conditions.
Red Sands received the information from the seller of the policy and was entitled to 
rely on that information. But I do think its surprising that Red Sands issued a policy 
with no pre-existing medical conditions covered when they had the answers to the 
medical screening questions which confirmed one of the travellers had a terminal 
diagnosis, was taking medication and was awaiting treatment or investigation. In any 
event, I dont think the schedule was sufficiently clear about what was covered, and 
what wasnt, in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ive already explained.
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs T ended up with a product which wasnt right for them. I cant 
hold Red Sands responsible for any failings in the sales process. Red Sands 
received the information from the seller of the policy and was entitled to rely on that 
information. So, I dont think they are responsible for the medical conditions not 
appearing.
Based on the evidence Ive been provided with I think Mr T did declare the medical
conditions he needed to. So, I dont agree with our investigators conclusions that 
CIDRA applies. But, I do think Red Sands should pay compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience that resulted from the lack of clarity of this policy schedule.
Ive thought about the impact on Mr and Mrs T. They were left without cover for the 
medical conditions they thought theyd declared, and Mrs T became unwell. So, 
theyve incurred significant medical bills. And they had the distress and 
inconvenience of having to sort out Mrs Ts return home without the financial and 
practical support of Red Sands. This had a considerable impact on them at an 
already worrying and difficult time. They thought they had the reassurance of cover 
and I dont think it was sufficiently clear from the schedule that they didnt have the 
cover they expected. I think Red Sands should pay compensation for distress
and inconvenience for this  both to Mr T and to the estate of Mrs T for the impact of 
the situation on her in the time before she sadly passed away.
I also think Red Sands should refund the premiums Mr and Mrs T paid as I think the 
policy was of very limited benefit to them. They were travelling to the Channel Islands 
and its clear that Mr and Mrs Ts primary motivation was to ensure Mrs Ts health 
condition was covered. So I think its fair and reasonable the premiums are refunded 
too.
But I dont think its fair and reasonable for Red Sands to pay the claim because I 
dont think Mr and Mrs Ts financial losses flow directly from the lack of clear 
information in the policy schedule.
Putting things right
Im intending to direct Red Sands to pay Mr and Mrs T £600 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the impact of discovering they didnt have the 
level of cover they expected. They should also refund the premiums Mr and Mrs T 
paid.
Red Sands didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr T made some further representations. He said he was confused why Red Sands werent 
responsible for the sale of the policy and the sale is where it all began. He resent some of 
screen shots and highlighted that he completed a medical declaration not a medical screening. He said that if the software had been fit for purpose it would have picked up that 
hed answered yes to five of the questions and not allowed him to purchase the policy.
I asked our investigator to clarify why the complaint was about Red Sands and explain what 
Mr T needed to do if he wanted to pursue a complaint about the sale of the policy.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Red Sands is the insurer and underwriter of the policy. So, they are the business responsible 
for deciding whether a claim should be declined. Mr and Mrs Ts claim was declined because 
Red Sands said that Mrs T wasnt covered for her pre-existing medical conditions. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service considered whether it was reasonable for Red Sands to 
decline the claim on that basis, bearing in mind the information theyd received from the 
seller. Red Sands is also responsible for the information contained in the schedule of 
insurance. 
Another business is responsible for the sale of the policy  including the questions asked 
and the way the website is constructed. That business is responsible for collating the 
information and passing it to Red Sands. Usually, where there is a complaint about a 
declined claim and a mis-sale the Financial Ombudsman Service will firstly consider whether 
a claim was declined. The Financial Ombudsman Service was not investigating a complaint 
about the sale of the policy at the time I issued my provisional decision. Our investigator has 
explained to Mr T what the next steps are and is taking forward a complaint about the sale of 
the policy. 
Mr T did complete a medical declaration as the screenshot hes provided and the schedule 
of insurance shows. But the medical screening follows on from this in the sales process and 
refers to the more detailed questions he was asked as a result. So, when I refer to the 
medical screening Im referring to the more detailed questions which follow the medical 
declaration. When I refer to the medical declaration Im referring to the six questions which 
appear on the schedule and in the screenshot Mr T provided. 
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision I dont think it would have been clear 
to Mr T that even though he had completed the medical declaration there was an issue with 
the medical screening questions which resulted in him not having cover. I think when looking 
at the schedule, which is Red Sands responsibility, hed have thought he had cover for the 
medical conditions referred to in the medical declaration. Its on that basis that I am 
upholding Mr Ts complaint against Red Sands. 
As Im not considering a complaint about the business which sold the policy, I am not making 
a finding about the issues in the sales process which Mr T has raised.  
Putting things right
Im intending to direct Red Sands to pay Mr T and the estate of Mrs T £600 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by the impact of discovering they didnt have the 
level of cover they expected. They should also refund the premiums Mr and Mrs T paid.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr T and the estate of Mrs Ts complaint about Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited and direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and the 
estate of Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman