DRN-3776967
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited breached General Data Protection 
Regulations (GDPR) when it provided his details to a third-party company.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr M entered into a three-year contract hire agreement for a new car with 
Hyundai. Under the terms and conditions of the agreement Mr M was responsible for any 
charges that arose from use of the vehicle and Hyundai would apply an administration fee 
for dealing with any such charges.
In February 2022 a parking charge was received by Hyundai for a car with the same 
registration number as Mr Ms hired car. However, the third-party company that had raised 
the parking charge had made an error in the way it had recorded the registration number in 
the body of its notice. This was clear from the photo of the car in situ which was included in 
that notice. The photo showed the car was of a different make and model to that hired by Mr 
M.
On receipt of the parking charge, Hyundai scanned the text by an automated system and so 
didnt note that the photo hadnt supported that this was the car that Mr M had hired. It 
provided Mr Ms name, address and confirmed the car was on long-term lease to the third-
party company. It also charged Mr M a £15 administration fee for dealing with the parking 
charge notice.
Mr M noticed that Hyundai had charged him an administration fee and contacted it as he 
hadnt yet received a letter from the third-party company so wasnt aware of the parking 
charge. Hyundai then saw there had been an error in the recording of the registration 
number by the third-party company. Hyundai credited the £15 fee back to Mr M and notified 
the third-party company that it had wrongly recorded the registration number on the parking 
charge notice.  
Mr M was unhappy that Hyundai had passed his personal details on to the third-party 
company when he said it was clear it hadnt been his car. He said this had been a breach of 
GDPR. Mr M was also unhappy about the letters hed received from the third-party company 
which he said were threatening in tone about paying the charge and raising the possibility of 
court proceedings.
Hyundai explained to Mr M that it used an automated process when dealing with parking 
charges and so the photo of the actual car that had been responsible for the charge hadnt 
been studied. It said it had processed the registration number provided by the third-party 
company which had belonged to the car hired by Mr M and had followed its set processes. 
However, in light of what had happened, Hyundai said it would review how it handled parking 
charges and apologised to Mr M for the inconvenience and distress caused. Hyundai offered 
Mr M £25 compensation.
Mr M disagreed with the settlement offered by Hyundai and complained to this service. He 
said Hyundai had breached GDPR and given out his personal details which had resulted in 
letters from the third-party company threatening him with legal action. Mr M said he hadnt 
been able to make contact with the third-party company to cancel the charge.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She said she thought 
Hyundais offer of £25 compensation was fair in the circumstances. Our investigator said the 
root cause of the error had been due to the actions of the third-party company and Hyundais 
process hadnt picked up that error until contact from Mr M. However, it had informed the 
third-party company that it had used the wrong registration number for the parking charge 
and the charge had now been cancelled. Our investigator said although she appreciated Mr 
M had been upset about the letters from the third-party company, Hyundai hadnt been 
responsible for those.
Mr M disagreed with the view of our investigator and the complaint was sent to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that the registration number of the car had been wrongly recorded by the 
third-party company when it sent the parking charge notice to Hyundai. Nor is it disputed that 
the photograph of the car that was included with the parking charge showed a different 
registration, make and model to the car hired by Mr M.
Hyundai has explained that due to it using an automated process which scans the text of 
notices that the photo itself wouldnt have been studied so the error wouldnt have been 
picked up. It has apologised to Mr M and offered compensation. Hyundai has also said it 
would look at its processes to see if they can be improved. Hyundai said it hadnt breached 
the GDPR by passing on Mr Ms details.
I appreciate Mr M has been upset by the letters he received from the third-party company 
and says it was the flaw in Hyundais processes that led to his name and details being 
passed on. However, I can only look at the actions of Hyundai and Ive seen that as soon as 
the error was spotted, which appears to have been before the third-party company had 
written to Mr M, it had sought to have the mistake rectified with that other company. So, Im 
satisfied it didnt delay in seeking to sort the matter out on behalf of Mr M. Ive seen that the 
parking charge has been cancelled. 
I think its fair to take into account that the actual error had originated with the registration 
number being wrongly recorded by the third-party company and that Hyundai had followed 
its set processes when it had received the parking charge. However, I agree with the Mr M 
that here, Hyundais automated processes has caused unfairness to him. The photo that 
was provided showed it wasnt Mr Ms car, however his details had been passed on. 
Ive seen that Hyundai reimbursed Mr M the administration fee it had charged him and took 
action in getting the parking fee cancelled. It has also offered Mr M £25 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him. And looking at the impact this has had on Mr M, I 
think this offer is fair and reasonable and Im not going to ask it to do more. 
I appreciate Mr M would have been frustrated that his details were passed on when they 
shouldnt have been, but my role isnt to punish Hyundai as Im not a regulator. I think that 
although Hyundai actions were unfair, it has tried to put Mr M back in the position he would 
have been had this error not arisen. I therefore disagree a higher amount of compensation is 
justified and for the reasons given Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I think Hyundai Capital UK 
Limiteds offer of £25 compensation is fair for the distress and inconvenience that was 
caused to him and Im not asking it to do more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman