DRN-2610782
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Lloyds Bank PLCs predecessor business (TSB) wrongly 
advised them to invest over half their savings in 1994. This money came from Mr Fs 
redundancy payment and as inexperienced investors it wasnt appropriate to recommend 
that they take a risk with this money.
What happened
Lloyds rejected their complaint, saying it had no records of any 1994 investments. It then 
found records which showed Mr and Mrs F had agreed to invest £6,000 each in two PEPs in 
1994 but had no other paperwork regarding the sale or advice. On further investigation it 
said that a 2007 fact find referenced earlier investments from 1995 and 1997. Scottish 
Widows records from 1995 noted an existing investment i.e. one started prior to this date.
An investigator at this service, with Mr and Mrs Fs assistance, found some further evidence 
about the investments but said he did not feel this was sufficient to uphold the complaint.
He noted that Mr F could only recall that these were middle-of-the-road investments where 
their money was at risk and that Mrs F had sold hers in 2007.
Further investigation uncovered a 1995 fact find noting that Mr and Mrs F were looking to 
make fresh investments. This noted the 1994 investments, detailing that Mr and Mrs F had 
been left with £20,000 in savings after these PEP purchases.
Lloyds also noted that its files showed that Mr F had invested more money in risk-based 
investments in 2007, most in broadly-medium rated funds. It said the current value of his 
portfolio was more than £67,000.
Given the available evidence, he was not convinced that Mr and Mrs F had invested more 
than half of their money in 1994 or that this left them with insufficient savings. Having 
considered all the information now available, he thought Mr and Mrs F had actually invested 
no more than 17% of their readily-available money i.e. including a cash TESSA. He also 
noted that by 1995 Mr F was working again, had a monthly surplus income and invested 
further one-off and ongoing sums into medium-risk products.
In his view, it appeared that the 1994 funds contained part equity and part income-
generating bonds and didnt feel this was unsuitable, the funds meeting their agreed 
medium attitude to risk profile and capital growth investment objective whilst retaining 
plentiful cash reserves.
Mr F did not agree, and said:
We were invited to a bank meeting where we were asked to invest
The advisor said the share price of roughly 6,000 would probably be around 10,000 
in 10 years time; this was my redundancy money from the pit, and this was the first 
time Ive ever had money
One year later our statement showed the £12,000 investment was £5,000 down and 
we went to the bank but couldnt find the advisor; the bank did not know where he 
was. It seems strange it can find my funds but not the investments
I feel TSB have treated me very unfairly; I have learned from experience you dont 
invest when share prices are at record levels
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its important to explain that my role is to decide if there is sufficient, persuasive 
evidence to fairly uphold a complaint. In cases like this  where the investments were taken 
out more than 25 years ago  there is understandably often limited paperwork which makes 
it harder to assess the detailed situation.
Its also inevitably the case that its difficult to rely solely on either partys recollections of 
what was said and discussed so long ago. For example, Mr F claims that these investments 
represented more than half of their savings and they were left with too little money after 
agreeing to the PEPs. However, the 1995 records indicate this was unlikely to have been the 
case, recording that Mr and Mrs F had £20,000 in cash along with other readily-available 
monies, having invested the £12,000 the previous year. This is presumably why they 
decided or agreed to meet an advisor and invest more money in risk-based products.
Also, while I do not know the make-up of their PEPs, it seems unlikely that these had fallen 
in value from £12,000 to £5,000 by 1995. Historic data shows the stock market was not at 
record levels in 1994 and did not nose-dive the following year. The FTSE hovered around 
3,000 in 1994 and rose to nearly 3,700 in the following 12 months. It is now above 6,000.
For these reasons, I simply dont believe there is enough evidence to safely conclude that 
TSBs 1994 advice was unsuitable. I am not saying I am satisfied that it was appropriate 
advice as I dont have sufficient evidence to fully assess Mr and Mrs Fs finances at the time 
or, crucially, the make-up of the recommended PEPS. I am merely saying that there isnt 
enough evidence to conclude this was bad advice.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman