DRN-2534454
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs W complain that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund them after they fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr B and Mrs W received an email they thought was from their landlord, 
providing new account details for their monthly rent payment.
On 9 April 2019, Mrs W made their monthly rent payment through her online banking for 
£2,717, from their business account to the new account details provided in the email. The 
payment was returned to their business account the same day. 
So, on 10 April 2019, Mrs W made a payment of £2,709 to a different set of account details. 
This payment went through successfully.
At the start of May, after talking to their landlord, Mr B and Mrs W became aware that the 
email hadnt come from their landlord and they were the victims of a phishing scam  
whereby the email looked like it was from their landlord but was actually sent by fraudsters.
Mr B and Mrs W contacted TSB and asked to be refunded for the lost funds.
TSB declined to refund Mr B and Mrs W. TSB explained that their Fraud Refund Guarantee 
only applied to payments made after 14 April 2019, so their payment on 10 April wasnt 
covered. And that the Fraud Refund Guarantee wasnt applied retrospectively. TSB also said 
that as Mrs W had authorised the payment through her online banking, she wasnt entitled to 
a refund.
Mr B and Mrs W werent happy and brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr B and Mrs Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator 
didnt feel the payment was particularly unusual or suspicious so wouldnt have expected it 
to flag with TSB. With regards to the first payment being recredited to the account, there 
wasnt any evidence this was due to TSB flagging or preventing the payment. They also 
explained there was nothing further TSB couldve done to recover the funds, and that TSB 
hadnt acted unfairly in not retrospectively applying their Fraud Refund Guarantee in relation 
to this payment.
Mr B and Mrs W didnt agree with the investigators opinion saying:
TSB had a duty to pursue the funds from the receiving bank and hadnt met their 
obligations as they hadnt provided evidence of their contact with the receiving bank.
TSB hadnt met their obligations in terms of the investigation carried out. They feel 
the receiving bank shouldve traced any ongoing transfers of the payment they made.
TSB havent acted fairly in not retrospectively applying their Fraud Refund Guarantee 
The investigator explained that we cant look at the receiving banks actions in relation to this 
complaint against TSB. As Mr B and Mrs W didnt agree the case was passed to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr B and Mrs W paid a similar amount each month for rent out of this business 
account. They also regularly made payments through their online banking and set up 
new payees. Having reviewed the previous activity on the account and their use of 
the account, Im not persuaded that the payment of just over £2,700 was so unusual 
or out of character that I wouldve expected it to be flagged by TSB. Therefore, they 
didnt act unreasonably in processing the payment.
Mr B and Mrs W raised a concern that the first payment did flag with TSB and wasnt 
processed, therefore the second payment shouldve been prevented as well. But I 
cant see that the first payment was unsuccessful due to TSB stopping it. It appears 
that there was some issue with the payment; for example, an error in the sort code or 
account number, or other issue at the receiving banks end. As the payment debited 
Mr B and Mrs Ws account then was recredited the same day, rather than not going 
through at all. Therefore, Im not persuaded that the first payment flagged with TSB 
and they stopped it.
While TSB havent provided evidence of when they contacted the receiving bank, we 
have evidence that all of the funds left the beneficiaries account by 20 April 2019. 
Which means that no funds were recoverable by 2 May 2019 when Mr B and Mrs W 
became aware they were the victims of a scam and first reported it to TSB. The fact 
that TSB havent provided this evidence doesnt mean that Mr B and Mrs W are 
entitled to a refund. In this case, that evidence doesnt make a difference to the 
outcome. I say this because even if there was evidence that TSB hadnt contacted 
the receiving bank as quickly as wed expect, there were no funds that could be 
recovered, so it wouldnt make a difference to the outcome. 
I appreciate that Mr B and Mrs W may want a fuller investigation with regards to the 
account with the receiving bank and what happened to their funds, but this complaint 
is against TSB. As such I can only look at the actions TSB have taken and whether 
theyve acted fairly and reasonably in their dealings with Mr B and Mrs W.
Finally, Ive looked at whether TSB acted fairly with regards to their Fraud Refund 
Guarantee. They launched the Fraud Refund Guarantee on 14 April 2019. Having 
reviewed the information about it, it clearly sets out that no refund will be given if 
fraud losses happened before Sunday 14 April 2019. I appreciate that Mr B and Mrs 
W may want TSB to apply it retrospectively, but I cant fairly say that TSB have acted 
unreasonably in not doing so.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about TSB Bank plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman