DRN-4367106
The complaint
Mr M complains that hes been inconvenienced by Zurich Assurance Limited after they 
asked him to go through an information gathering process when he wanted to cash in his 
pension pot.
Mr M says that because of Zurichs insistence that he go through an interview process, his 
pension has decreased in value because of their delays. Hed like Zurich to recompense him 
for those losses.
What happened
In April 2023, Mr M contacted Zurich and asked them to fully encash his pension and send 
him the funds. As a result of Mr Ms request, Zurich asked Mr M to provide some further 
information and complete a risk questionnaire so that they could provide some tailored risk 
warnings to him about his chosen course of action.
Shortly afterwards, Mr M decided to formally complain to Zurich. In summary, he said that he 
wasnt happy about the need to complete a questionnaire or provide any further information 
to Zurich, given that hed already made his mind up that he wanted to encash his pension.
After reviewing Mr Ms complaint, Zurich concluded they were satisfied that theyd done 
nothing wrong. They also said, in summary, that the risk questionnaire that theyd asked Mr 
M to complete was for his benefit, as the answers from that would help them to ensure that 
theyd highlighted the relevant drawbacks to him, so he could decide whether he still wished 
to proceed. Zurich also went on to say that the approach they were taking was set out by 
Regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
Mr M was unhappy with Zurichs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he said that he didnt wish to engage in Zurichs process and forcing him to do so 
was unfair.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that Zurich 
had treated Mr M fairly and that they were being reasonable by asking Mr M to go through 
their information process. Mr M, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In 
summary, he said that citizens of a democratic society should have the right to make their 
own decisions about such matters. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe Mr M had 
presented any new arguments that hed not already considered or responded to. Mr M then 
asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important for me to note that I very much recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling 
about this matter. He has provided submissions to support his complaint, which Ive read 
and considered very carefully. However, I hope that Mr M wont take the fact that my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail as he 
has outlined, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single 
point raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr M and Zurich, in order to 
reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the 
case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but it is for me to decide, based on the available information that 
I've been given, what's more likely than not to have happened. And, having done so, Im 
not upholding Mr Ms complaint and its largely for the same reasons as our Investigator. 
Whilst I cant add a great deal more beyond what our Investigator has already set out, Ill 
explain why.
I can well appreciate Mr Ms frustration at what he feels are barriers being put in his way by 
Zurich when hes tried to access the full amount of monies in his pension pot. However, 
using financial services wont always hassle-free. And, whilst Mr M may feel like Zurichs 
processes are unnecessary, theyre there for good reason. The Regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) has robust rules in place that firms must follow  these rules are 
principally designed to protect consumers from a wide spectrum of financial harm. In 
addition, the rules which the regulator sets out are also designed to ensure that whichever 
business consumers use, theyre all provided with the appropriate and necessary information 
to ensure that theyve been placed in an informed position. What that means in practice, is 
that regardless of which provider Mr M used, that business would have to satisfy itself that 
theyve provided Mr M with the information set out in the Regulators rules before he would 
be allowed to access his pension pot.
The Regulator has set out the rules which firms must follow in circumstances such as this in 
their Conduct of Business handbook under section 19.7. I appreciate that Zurich have 
already signposted those rules to Mr M on multiple occasions, so I dont intend to repeat 
them here. However, Mr M has questioned where in English Law it states that hes legally 
bound to comply with those industry requirements. To be clear, the Regulators rules set out 
how businesses must conduct themselves, and those rules are designed with the consumer 
at the heart of them and are principally there to provide the highest level of protection. And 
theyre there for good reason  multiple consumers have been victims of scams, paid 
unnecessary tax and or found the decisions that theyve made have resulted in DWP 
benefits being impacted. So, when a consumer who doesnt have a financial adviser, such 
as Mr M and those in his situation, approaches a business and asks them to encash their full 
pension fund, I think that those rules are beneficial.
I think it would be helpful if I set out why those rules are in place and why firms must follow 
them. Deciding how to access a pension fund is an incredibly important financial decision. 
Theres a combination of different ways in which consumers can do that and each approach 
typically has its own drawbacks. Importantly though, once any decision has been made, its 
irreversible, so its key that consumers are placed in an informed position before they take 
action, because if it subsequently transpires that theres been unintended consequences of 
following the wrong path, its not usually possible to change to a different course of action. 
So, given retirement is such an important milestone in most consumers lives, its paramount 
that they go into any pension extraction process with their eyes wide open.
I accept that Mr M believes he fully understands the risks of accessing his full pension pot, 
but I dont believe what Zurich are asking is unreasonable. To be clear, Zurich arent providing Mr M with any advice; theyre simply looking to satisfy themselves that Mr M is 
clear about the transaction that hes asking them to undertake, so he has a fair outcome. I 
think that this is sensible and its what the Regulator expects of them.
Mr M explained in his complaint that Zurich had told him that hed need to go through an 
interview with a financial adviser that could last up to 90 minutes. However, Zurich have 
explained that this is not the case and that their only requirement was for Mr M to provide 
further information to them and complete their risk questionnaire. It seems that Mr M may 
have been at crossed wires with Zurich  Ive listened to the call that Mr M had with them on 
14 June 2023 where he eventually agreed to go through Zurichs process to access his 
pension. Having listened to the discussion where Zurich asked a dozen questions, the 
process to complete them lasted around 15 minutes  so I dont think that the end-to-end 
approach they took was unreasonable.
Mr M has explained that hed like Zurich to recompense him for his investment losses which 
he feels are attributable to themselves. He went on to explain that had Zurich immediately 
acted upon his instruction to encash his pension, he would have received around £15,000. 
Hes now seen his pension fund reduce in value since and wants Zurich to make up the 
difference. However, I dont agree that Zurich are responsible for Mr Ms losses. For me to 
make an award, Id have to find that a business has done something wrong  I dont think 
that Zurich have. Thats because, as Ive already explained, Zurich are bound by the rules 
that the Regulator sets and from what Ive seen, theyve simply followed their expectations.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint and as such, I wont be instructing Zurich Assurance Limited to 
take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman