DRN-4085230
The complaint
Mr T has complained about how NewDay Ltd handled his request for money back.
What happened
Mr T says he made an online purchase of merchandise for £683.10 using his NewDay credit 
card on 5 July 2022. He tells us he reached what felt like a stalemate with the merchant after 
exercising his right to cancel, and so contacted NewDay for help and to raise a dispute. As 
the purchase had been made at a distance, he referred to a 14-day cooling off period. But he 
was getting frustrated because he didnt think NewDay properly understood what was wrong 
or what it could do to help. Mr T made various calls to NewDay between 5 and 7 July 2022. 
He complained about the support it gave him.
NewDay sent a final response letter for Mr Ts complaint in August 2022. It acknowledged 
Mr T contacted it to raise a distance dispute but that the call handler asked for more 
information because they werent aware of a distance dispute under the card scheme 
chargeback rules. NewDay says Mr T was unwilling to provide further information so the call 
handler couldnt raise the dispute. 
NewDay said it listened to the calls and thought the call handlers were polite and 
professional throughout and that they gave Mr T the correct information or asked for more 
details when appropriate. NewDay acknowledge Mr T spoke to another call handler who said 
they were aware of the 14-day cooling off period, but that Mr T would need to raise the 
dispute with the merchant first. The merchant, however, refunded Mr T the funds on 15 July 
2022. NewDay gave Mr T details of how he could raise a chargeback in the future, and it 
apologised he felt the need to complain. But it didnt think it handled things unfairly. 
Mr T referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He said he found it alarming 
NewDay didnt know about distance disputes. He thought NewDay ought to have given him 
more help and not simply sign-post him back to the merchant. Mr T said he was anxious 
NewDay werent going to help him and that he could have lost out financially. To resolve 
things, Mr T requests an apology. And that he should also be awarded damages for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt make any recommendations. He said he didnt 
think NewDay handled the chargeback claim unfairly. He said Mr T was directed back to the 
merchant and that he was able to obtain a refund. So, no recommendations were made. 
Mr T didnt agree with the assessment. He says he contacted NewDay to make a claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and in particular for NewDay to 
enter into a joint action with him regarding it as a means of recourse. Mr T says it was his 
decision not NewDay or the Financial Ombudsman to decide which avenue should be used 
to recover funds. And that while hed recovered the loss, it had been distressing and time 
consuming. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
the complaint quickly and with minimum formality. I want to assure Mr T and NewDay that 
Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I 
havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our 
powers allow me to do this. 
Im considering whether NewDay has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled 
Mr Ts request for getting his money back. I have to think about the specific card protections 
that are available. In situations like this, NewDay can consider raising a chargeback or 
assessing a claim under section 75. 
Mr T said he wanted NewDay to enter into a joint action with him. Section 75 is a statutory 
protection that enables Mr T to make a like claim against NewDay for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit card in respect of an agreement it had with 
him for the provision of goods or services. But there are certain conditions that need to be 
met in order for section 75 to apply. 
Chargeback isnt a legal right or a guaranteed way of getting a refund. The rules are set out 
by the particular card scheme. There wasnt a requirement for NewDay to raise a 
chargeback, but if there was a reasonable prospect of success, Id consider it good practice 
for it to have done so.
I think part of the issue Mr T had when he spoke to NewDay was that hed only just made 
the purchase. And hed only just asked to cancel it. The distance selling rules that form part 
of the Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 
2013 (CCR) do provide for a 14-day cancellation period. And the merchant may have 
breached the contract by failing to honour that. But by the time Mr T spoke to NewDay hed 
only just made the purchase and so there was no breach of contract at that point that 
NewDay would have been jointly liable for under section 75. NewDay didnt necessarily need 
to enter into a joint action. Its jointly liable with the merchant for breach of contract and 
misrepresentation. Moreover, I cant see there would have been a valid chargeback reason 
code at that point that wouldve had a reasonable prospect of success. 
However, that being said, from reviewing what happened on the phone calls, I think Mr Ts 
complaint is primarily about the service he received from NewDay and the way it handled his 
prospective claim. He managed to receive a refund from the merchant. So, I dont need to 
direct NewDay to do anything in relation to that. 
Ive listened to the calls between Mr T and NewDay. It looks like the relationship broke down 
straight away. Mr T couldnt hear the first caller properly. So, he wanted to speak to 
someone else. Ive listened to that call, and I can understand the agent. So perhaps Mr T 
had a poor line. He made further calls to NewDay and was unhappy with how he was being 
dealt with. So, he spoke to an agent in the complaints department. 
Mr Ts complaints primarily related to:
The way the agents spoke to him
Agents speaking over him
Agents not understanding distant purchasing Agents being incapable to do their job
Being hung up on
Not being passed through to another staff member
Overall, I think the agents were trying to help Mr T. I appreciate Mr T was getting frustrated 
the agents wanted to put him on hold, but I dont think thats a particularly unusual step for 
an organisation to take when the agent needs support from someone else. The relationship 
broke down further when Mr T spoke to an agent in the disputes area. She didnt understand 
the term distance purchase. So, she asked Mr T for more details about the dispute. But he 
was unhappy to do that because he thought she didnt know how to do her job. The agent 
said distance purchase wasnt a term used in the department. But that she was more than 
happy to talk about the dispute. Mr T wanted to speak to another agent and was unhappy 
with how she was dealing with it. 
I can understand why Mr T was frustrated the agent didnt understand his terminology. Given 
she worked in disputes she ought to have had some knowledge of certain transactions made 
where the customer hasnt seen the product. But Im conscious she repeatedly asked Mr T 
to explain more about the dispute so she could try to help. Mr T was frustrated she wouldnt 
pass him through to someone else, but it seems that she wasnt able to. Mr T demanded to 
speak to a senior manager, but she wasnt able to pass him through to directly. So, she 
offered to arrange a call back, which I dont think is unreasonable. Mr T didnt want to clarify 
his mobile number, so the agent said shed have to end the call, which she did. I appreciate 
Mr T had already made a few calls by this point, and hed not resolved things. But if hed 
given more details to the agent or clarified his contact number, he mightve been given the 
help or information he needed. Or he mightve been called back by a manager. 
Overall, because the transaction was so recent, NewDay didnt have many options to help at 
the time he phoned. But I agree NewDay had the opportunity to provide clearer information 
about on how best to deal with the dispute. If it meant, for example, he had to wait until the 
14 days were up to see if hed received an answer from the merchant, thats what he should 
have been told. However, I think the call handlers were trying to help Mr T on the whole and 
were courteous. 
As I said above, were here to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum formality. Mr T 
has received a refund for the transaction he made which resolves that part of his dispute. 
While I know itll disappoint Mr T, Im not going to direct NewDay to pay compensation for 
the way it handled the calls. It apologised that Mr T felt the need to complaint. I dont think 
the way it dealt with Mr T warrants further compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd has done enough to resolve things for Mr T. I make no 
further directions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman