DRN-2796161
The complaint
Ms W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, closed her 
accounts without notice and without explanation. She also wishes to complain about over 50 
other alleged errors.
What happened
Ms W had a current account and a credit card account with Tesco Bank. She says that in 
December 2020 she received a letter from the bank telling her that her accounts would be 
closed in January 2021. But instead her accounts were closed the next day. She complains 
about the lack of notice, and about the fact that no reason was given.
Tesco Bank denies sending her that letter. It says it sent Ms W a letter in November saying 
that her accounts would be closed in December, and that it closed the accounts in 
accordance with the notice period in that letter and in line with its terms and conditions. It 
said it had done this because Ms W appeared to have been using her personal current 
account as a business account, and had ignored its letters about this matter. Ms W denied 
receiving any of those letters, and denied using her account for business transactions. She 
provided a bank statement showing that her current account was still open in April 2021.
Ms W also wishes to complain about a variety of alleged banking errors, over fifty of them, 
which she says occurred over the five years she had held the accounts. She asked our 
investigator to make a subject access request on her behalf to find out everything about the 
history of the accounts.
The investigator declined to do that, partly because only Ms W could make a subject access 
request about herself, and also because Tesco Bank did not appear to have had an 
opportunity to investigate the other complaint points. He confined the scope of this complaint 
to the account closures. He did not uphold this complaint. He accepted that Tesco Bank had 
closed the accounts in line with its terms and conditions, that it had reasonable grounds for 
doing so because Ms W had not replied to its letters, and that it had given her one months 
notice in November. He did not think it was the banks fault if its earlier letters had not been 
delivered.
Ms W did not accept that opinion, and so the investigator referred this case for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I am only going to consider the complaint about the account closures. I am 
not going to consider any other issues, for two reasons. Firstly, because Ms W has not 
described any of them with enough particulars to identify what they are about or when they 
happened, let alone to begin to investigate them. Secondly, because they were not covered 
by the banks final response letter, and there is no evidence that Ms W has complained to 
the bank about them (except for one matter about a chargeback claim in August 2020, but 
I think that matter would be more properly dealt with as a separate complaint if Ms W wishes 
to pursue it). We can only consider a complaint after the bank has had an opportunity to 
investigate it for itself.
Having considered the complaint about the account closures, I do not uphold it. I will explain 
why.
I have seen three letters which Tesco Bank sent to Ms W in March, August and October 
2020. They are all addressed to the same address as its final response letters, which she did 
receive, so I am satisfied that they were correctly addressed. If they were not delivered, that 
is not the banks fault. These letters told Ms W that the bank suspected she had been using 
her personal account for business purposes, and that she must stop. They also asked her to 
provide further information. It is not in dispute that she did not respond to these letters. It is 
not necessary for me to make any finding about why that might be, other than to say that it 
was not the banks fault. Tesco Banks terms and conditions say that it may close an account 
without notice in these circumstances, and so I accept that the bank acted reasonably in 
doing so.
I do agree with Ms W that Tesco Banks letter in November should have explained the 
reason why her account was being closed, since its terms and conditions say that a reason 
will normally be given, and none of the exceptions applied. It would have been better to 
explain that it was because she had not replied to the earlier letters. I think the banks failure 
to do that was indeed an error, but it is not such a serious error that it merits an award of 
compensation. I think our investigators explanation to Ms W in his opinion in April 2021 was 
enough to resolve that complaint point.
As I have said, the bank did not have to give Ms W any notice that it was closing her 
accounts. But it gave her one months notice, and I think that was fair. I have seen the letter 
it sent her in November, and it clearly explained that the accounts would be closed in 
December. The accounts appear to have been closed in accordance with that timescale. 
I dont know why or how there is a bank statement which shows that the current account was 
still open four months later, but I dont think I need to make a finding about that to resolve 
this complaint. 
Ms W has sent us a letter on Tesco Banks headed paper, dated 13 December 2020, which 
she told us says that her accounts would be closed in January 2021. Ive read it, and it 
actually says January 2020, which is clearly a mistake. That letter contradicts the earlier 
letter which said that the accounts would be closed in December, so if that letter really was 
sent by Tesco Bank then it would still not have the effect of depriving Ms W of the one 
months notice she received in November. But the evidence Tesco Bank has provided 
suggests that it never sent her that letter. It has no record of any letter being sent to her on 
that date. However, I dont really need to decide who wrote it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ws complaint about the closure of her account, and 
that I will not investigate the other matters she wishes to complaint about.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman