DRN-2031923
 
The complaint
Dr T has brought this complaint on behalf of her company, D. She says that HSBC UK Bank
Plc wrongly debited the company's account with two card payments that she says she
neither made nor authorised. The bank won't refund the payments.
What happened
D's company card was used to make a payment of £40 on 16 January 2019 and a further
payment of £185 on 20 January 2019. Both payments were made to a company based 
around 90 miles from Dr T's home. Dr T said she'd never been there, she didn't make the
payments and didn't recognise them. She said too that D's payment card didn't go missing 
and that only she knew the PIN associated with it.
HSBC looked into what had happened. It was however unable to obtain very much
information about the transactions, either from the merchant or from Dr T. It did however say
that the first payment was made using the card's electronic chip and a signature; the second
was made using the card's chip and a PIN. In the circumstances, it wouldn't offer a refund.
Dr T referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. She
thought however that the evidence indicated that the payments had been authorised and so
didn't recommend that HSBC refund them.
The investigator did however think that HSBC hadn't handled the dispute as well as it could
have done. In particular, it had given Dr T the impression that matters could be resolved
through the card scheme, when that wasn't in fact the case. She recommended that
HSBC pay £75 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused to Dr T.
HSBC accepted the investigator's recommendations, but Dr T didn't. She asked that an
ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because my reasoning was a little different from the investigator's, issued a 
provisional decision. 
In my provisional decision I noted that the first payment appeared to have been entered 
manually. That is, contrary to what the bank had said, the chip embedded in the card hadn't 
been read when the payment was made. That suggested the card hadn't been present for 
that payment. The second payment had however been made using the genuine card, and I 
thought it likely that the two payments were connected. I noted too that the payee appeared 
to be the management company of a retail park, rather than any of the retail outlets; that 
wasn't what I'd expect if someone had taken a card or its details.
The second payment had been made about an hour-and-a-half after a contactless payment 
made with the same card near Dr T's home. It would have been possible to travel the 90 
miles between the two payments in that time, although it would usually take longer. I 
considered the possibility that the second payment was actually made away from the 
merchant's offices, but was unable to establish whether that was in fact the case. For these reasons, I agreed with the investigator that it was likely that the two payments had 
been properly authorised.
The investigator had recommended that HSBC pay Dr T £75 to compensate her for the way 
it had handled the complaint. HSBC had agreed to that. However, I explained in my 
provisional decision why I had no power to make such an award. First, I can only make an 
award in respect of the complainant, which in this case is D, not Dr T. Second, I can only 
make an award for distress or inconvenience if I am determining a complaint in favour of the 
complainant. Since I wasn't doing that here, I had no power to make the award the 
investigator had recommended. I said though that HSBC could still make the payment if it 
wanted to do so. 
HSBC accepted my provisional findings, but Dr T didn't respond on behalf of D.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither the bank not D has provided anything further for me to consider, I haven't 
changed my conclusions from those set out in my provisional decision and which I've 
summarised above.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything more to resolve 
D's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman