DRN-1575250
The complaint
Mr K complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline his claim made under 
his legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ill only provide a 
brief summary of some key events here. Mr K has insurance for certain legal expenses 
which is provided by Aviva. Mr K says he was due to receive a pension from one of his 
former employers in 2013. He hasnt yet received anything and has pursued his dispute in a 
number of ways which include through the Pensions Ombudsman and HM Courts and 
Tribunal Service. 
In February 2019 Mr K made a claim to Aviva. He wanted to take legal action to get the 
pension he says he is entitled to. Aviva considered the claim but explained that there wasnt 
cover under the policy for a dispute about a pension. They highlighted an exclusion which 
related to financial products which they felt applied. Mr K said he wanted his claim 
considered under the employment section of his policy. 
Aviva asked one of their panel solicitors M to consider a claim against Mr Ks former 
employer. A solicitor from M concluded that Mr Ks dispute was with his pension provider C 
and not with his former employer. On the basis of this Aviva said they couldnt assist further 
with Mr Ks claim. 
Mr K complained and the matter was ultimately referred to our service. One of our 
investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Aviva had said that if Mr K 
provided them with a copy of his employment contract, they would look again to see if it 
changed their position. Our investigator thought this was fair in the circumstances. Mr K still 
disagrees, he sees his employer as jointly liable with C for the provision of his pension and 
he asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has made considerable submissions throughout the course of this complaint. Ive read 
everything he has sent is, but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. If I dont comment on 
a particular point or a particular piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel the need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy, it is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
My role here is to consider whether Aviva have acted fairly in all the circumstances. So, I 
cant comment on Mr Ks underlying dispute and the merits of that. I can see that this is 
clearly a very important issue to Mr K.Mr Ks policy says that there is no cover for: a dispute with a financial services supplier 
arising from the sale or performance of products and services offered or provided to you. 
 The pension provider C are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). As such I 
dont think Aviva considering them to be a financial services supplier is unreasonable. I also 
think that Mr Ks dispute with them arises from the services provided (or not in this case) to 
him. So, I dont think Aviva acted unfairly when deciding that legal action against C was 
excluded from cover.
Mr Ks policy says under the heading of Employment Disputes: An incident that results in a 
dispute with your employer regarding your contract of employment or a breach of your legal 
rights under employment laws.
Aviva asked a solicitor from M to consider Mr Ks claim in line with this section of the policy. 
Aviva themselves arent legal experts, so when making decisions about a claim I think it is 
fair that they rely on suitably qualified legal advice, unless that advice is obviously wrong. 
Here, the solicitor concluded that the dispute didnt appear to relate to the terms of Mr Ks 
employment contract but rather was a dispute with C about what ought to be paid under the 
terms of the pension.
I understand that Mr K feels his former employers are jointly responsible for his pension and 
that this amounts to a breach of his rights under employment laws. But I think the solicitor is 
well placed to know who is the appropriate party to take action against. And if there was an 
apparent breach of employment laws by his former employer, I think the solicitor would have 
highlighted this. I think it is fair for Aviva to rely on the solicitors opinion when deciding there 
isnt cover under the employment section of the policy. Aviva have explained that if Mr K 
provides a copy of his employment contract, they will ask M to reconsider to see if it makes a 
difference. I appreciate this might be difficult for Mr K to provide as the employment in 
question ended in 1979. But I still think this is fair in the circumstances.
Overall, I dont think Aviva have acted outside the terms of the policy or unfairly. So, Im not 
telling them they need to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman