DRN-1618338
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited refused her term 
assurance claim. She says L&G instead chose to void the policy and unfairly allege that her 
late husband had misrepresented his history of alcohol consumption. 
To resolve the complaint, Mrs T wants L&G to pay the claim in full, with interest.  
What happened
In May 2017, Mr and Mrs T applied for a joint term assurance policy with L&G. This offered 
them £130,000 of level term life assurance for a 35-year term. They sought this cover 
alongside new mortgage lending.
Mr and Mrs T also held previous policies with L&G providing lower levels of life and critical 
illness cover  these two policies were taken out in 2014. In applying for their 2017 policy, 
they sought to replace one of the 2014 policies (solely life assurance) that had a £50,000 
sum assured. The other life and critical illness policy remained in force.
Mrs T has since said it wasnt clear that the first 2014 life assurance policy was being 
cancelled, but she now accepts that was the case as the intent was to increase their life 
assurance with a new policy.
In March 2019, Mrs T contacted L&G to explain Mr T had sadly taken his own life.
L&G approached Mr Ts GP with a targeted medical report. In the report, the GP stated that 
Mr T had previously received advice about his alcohol intake. Because of this, L&G sought a 
copy of Mr Ts medical records from May 2017 onwards. 
L&G said the medical records showed that Mr T had been advised to cut back on drinking 
after an attendance with his GP in June 2016. This record also showed that he was 
consuming 70 units each week at that time. By the time of the policy application, Mr T had 
said he drank eight drinks (so approximately 16 units) each week.
Mrs T disagreed with the records and questioned why the GP had made a record of 70 units 
when it also said that Mr T was drinking three drinks per day.
L&G told Mrs T in July 2019 that it could not pay the claim on the 2017 policy. It said that 
despite Mrs Ts comments, Mr T had been told how he needed to give accurate answers on 
his application. And it said he had failed to do that in relation to alcohol, and specifically 
being told to cut down his intake. If took the view that Mr T must have known he gave it 
wrong information. If it had been told the true information, it would have refused to insure 
him.
L&G paid Mrs Ts claim on the remaining 2014 policy.
Mrs T complained. She said Mr T had never acted deliberately and to suggest as much was 
rude and unfair. She said his blood test was almost a year before the application, and he most likely forgot about it. It wasnt followed up by the GP and so was unimportant to him. 
Further, he had disclosed about attending hospital with a matter connected to tonsillitis, so it 
was clear he had not deliberately lied about his circumstances.
L&G considered the complaint, but it said its view remained the same. It said it hadnt only 
asked Mr T a question about alcohol use, but a further question on whether he had 
undergone a blood test in the last few years. And as part of his alcohol advice, he had 
undergone a liver function test, with abnormal results. Mr T didnt attend a follow up, but one 
had been recommended.
L&G maintained it ought to have been told about the test, because it would have affected its 
decision to offer insurance. Finally L&G explained it wasnt trying to upset Mrs T, but in 
accordance with the relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts, when a 
misrepresentation has occurred it is categorised as either careless or deliberate and 
reckless. It though Mr Ts actions were in the latter category.
Mrs T brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator did not think the complaint should succeed. She felt Mr T had answered the 
question about alcohol intake incorrectly. That was because his answer differed from the 
information on his medical records. As such, she said L&G was entitled to consider what it 
would have done if it had known the correct information.
While our investigator disagreed with L&G that Mr T had behaved recklessly, she did think 
that L&G wouldnt have been able to insure him. On that basis, it had been right to return the 
policy premiums to Mrs T instead of paying the claim. 
Mrs T disagreed. She said she didnt accept that L&G would have refused to insure Mr T 
even if it had seen his medical records. She said he was young, fit and healthy. Further, the 
records stated Mr T had been advised about alcohol, but the question asked was about 
reducing alcohol  and they were different things.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ts additional comments but she wasnt willing to change 
her view. She said L&Gs underwriting guidelines were clear, and it couldnt have insured Mr 
T because his weekly alcohol intake set out in his medical records was over L&Gs 
acceptable threshold. She also felt that the medical records did advise Mr T to reduce his 
intake, and therefore the question wasnt answered correctly.
Mrs T still disagreed. She reiterated that the answer Mr T gave at the time of the application 
about the amount he was drinking was true. If she and Mr T had known the level of detail 
that the insurer would go into upon receipt of the claim, theyd never have taken out a third 
policy. She said she feels strongly that to be able to wipe out a claim for such a minor 
oversight some years prior is an unreasonable and disproportionate response. 
L&G said it had nothing else to add. Since Mrs T asked for a final decision, the complaint 
has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Before I go any further, I wish to pass my condolences to Mrs T. I can see that she has gone 
through a difficult time and Im sorry to learn how things have been for her and her children. I 
have taken on board everything she has said, especially the specific comments she made 
for my attention after the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
I know that my decision is going to be a further disappointment for Mrs T. But I have to be 
fair to both parties in a complaint. Having reviewed everything carefully, I agree with the 
outcome reached by our investigator and for the same reasons. I wont therefore be asking 
L&G to do anything more.
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation.
If the circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may 
have occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at 
that time. That is what L&G has done. When it received the medical information to process 
Mrs Ts claim, it was prompted to review Mr Ts GP visit of 2016. This was because in the 
report sent to L&G, the GP made comments relating to excessive alcohol consumption.
I dont believe L&G acted unfairly on receipt of the information. The report it sent was a 
targeted one. What I mean by that is the report asked about circumstances that might have 
been relevant to Mr Ts cause of death. It didnt ask for his entire medical records right away 
 and this was the correct approach. The guidance on misrepresentation issued by the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) says that insurers should only ask for sufficient 
information needed to assess the claim.
So, it falls to me to look at what Mr T was asked, and determine if I think he made a 
misrepresentation or not.
When Mr and Mrs T completed the application, Mr T was asked the following:
 
During a typical week, how many alcoholic drinks do you have?
(For example, a drink is a glass of wine or a glass or bottle of beer)
Have you ever been told by a health professional that you should reduce the amount of 
alcohol you have because you were drinking too much?
Apart from anything you've already told us about, during the last 2 years have you:
 - had a blood test, biopsy, scan or any form of heart investigations?
Mr T said he drank eight drinks per week. He said no to the other questions. Like our 
investigator, I believe that he should have answered differently, at the least to the final two 
questions.
I do recognise that Mr T attended the GP for matters related to his throat and not because 
he held concerns about alcohol. But that does not alter that the GP went into detail with him 
about his general health and his alcohol consumption. These are material facts that Mr T 
must have been aware of, both at the time and thereafter, because he was referred for liver 
function tests.
Mr T confirmed to the GP that he drank three to four drinks on any day that he was drinking, 
and at least once per week he would have more than six drinks. The GP recorded Mr Ts 
weekly units as 70 per week. If that equates to cans of beer (as Mrs T has said Mr T would drink on occasion) this would be some 35 drinks per week, or five per day.
I appreciate why Mrs T feels that the record of units is not consistent on the GP record. And 
she says this explains why Mr T gave a significantly lower record on his L&G application 
eleven months later. 
I do accept that alcohol consumption is a fluctuating measure, and that the question ought to 
be read by an applicant as relating to their current alcohol intake. It could indeed be the case 
that Mr T answered honestly, at the time of the application in June 2017.
Mrs T says Mr T only began to increase his drinking along with suffering from depression in 
2018, at which time Mr T also sadly bean using recreational drugs. She says this evidences 
his downturn in health, caused by new mental health concerns. I dont doubt that, and as Ive 
said above, I can accept that on any two given occasions an applicant could conceivably 
answer differently about how much alcohol he or she drinks in any given week. 
But, even if I were to accept Mr Ts answer about his weekly drinking habits, I still believe he 
did not answer the other two questions correctly. 
When he met with the GP on 16 June 2016, Mr T was asked has a 
relative/friend/doctor/health worker been concerned about your drinking or advised you to 
cut down?. Mr T answered yes, during the last year to that question. During the 
consultation, the GP recorded that patient advised about alcohol (XaFvp). That medical 
code is used by GPs where, during consultations, patients identified as drinking at 
hazardous or harmful levels should be offered a brief intervention.
On that basis, Mr T was sent for testing, with the expectation that there could be some 
abnormal functioning of his liver. This was in addition to a hospital referral for his throat 
issue.
The results came back as abnormal, and Mr T was told of this by telephone on 21 June 
2016. He was asked back for repeat testing in two months, but he didnt attend. The next 
medical records (where Mr T was again advised to reduce his alcohol intake) were later in 
August 2017, after the policy had come into force.
I realise Mrs T feels very strongly that Mr T volunteered information at an appointment 
unrelated to his drinking. But that doesnt mean that the GP didnt advise him or act in any 
way  in fact, the opposite is correct.
The GP gave Mr T advice to cut down his drinking, noting hed been advised before by a 
third party to reduce his drinking and/or concerns had been raised previously. He also 
specifically ordered liver function tests which had abnormal results that Mr T was told about 
during a telephone consultation. L&G needed to know about that. It needed the information 
to decide if it was going to offer him cover and on what terms. 
Mr T should have answered yes to the two questions above. 
I therefore believe there was a misrepresentation. And once thats been established, 
relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says that it should be classed as 
deliberate/reckless or otherwise as careless. 
I appreciate the mitigating points Mrs T has put forward, and I accept Mr T did not likely 
intend to deceive L&G. I therefore disagree with the categorisation of the misrepresentation 
as deliberate/reckless that L&G put forward. But Mr T needed to show more care when answering and checking the question. L&G relied 
on him answering questions accurately. Mr and Mrs T were sent a copy of the answers to 
reflect upon, in a checking your details letter of 21 June 2017. That correspondence made 
clear of the importance of ensuring accurate answers. The right categorisation for this is 
therefore careless.
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time.
If insurance could have been offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer 
can amend the contract to reflect this. If it could not have offered cover at all, the insurer can 
void the policy (for the policyholder who has misrepresented) and return the premiums he or 
she paid from the outset. 
I appreciate Mrs T feels that because there is a discrepancy on the record of June 2016 (70 
units versus three or four drinks per day) this must mean Mr Ts account on his application 
(eight drinks per week) should be used when assessing the underwriting L&G had in place at 
the time. But that is not the case.
L&G will not consent to us sharing the guidance as it says this is commercially sensitive. I 
can assure Mrs T that I have carefully reviewed the contents. And the guidance isnt solely a 
cut-off point of acceptable units per week, at which level L&G would allow an application to 
proceed. It sets out an amount of units in combination with other factors. One of these is 
being advised to reduce consumption. If a person has had this advice then the application 
will be declined, even where the applicant is under the stated threshold for weekly intake.
That L&G has those rules in place is a matter of its choosing; it is allowed to decide what risk 
it will accept and for what price. Mr and Mrs T could have decided to seek their insurance 
elsewhere or retain their original policy, but sadly that didnt happen because L&G wasnt 
informed of Mr Ts medical history in respect of alcohol reduction advice and Mr Ts liver 
function test. 
So, L&G hasnt had the opportunity to underwrite the policy in 2017 as it would have if it had 
known about Mr Ts correct circumstances. It is therefore fair and in accordance with the 
relevant law, guidance, and the policy terms for L&G to void the policy now. That means I 
cant ask it to pay Mrs Ts claim because L&G would not have been in a position to insure Mr 
T in the first place.  
Finally, I should note that in circumstances of joint policies where only one policyholder is 
found to have given incorrect information from the outset, I would expect an insurer to 
consider any options open to the remaining policyholder to keep his or her policy going. That 
would be a fair approach in those circumstances.
However, I dont propose any additional action here, because L&G has discussed this with 
Mrs T and she does not wish to maintain the policy on a sole basis. This was confirmed in 
the letter from L&G to Mrs T dated 12 July 2019. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs Ts circumstances I cannot uphold this complaint or make any 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.Jo Storey
Ombudsman