DRN-2290974
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services (BOI) 
are chasing him for an outstanding balance on his credit card.
What happened
Mr A applied for a credit card with BOI in 2017. Mr A says that when he applied for the card 
he was asked how much he could afford to pay each month. Mr A says he only wanted to 
pay up to £30 per month. Mr A transferred a balance from a different credit card on to his 
new BOI credit card. The minimum payment that was due was higher than £30. As BOI took 
more than £30 from Mr As account he cancelled his direct debit and continued to pay only 
£30 per month by cheque.
Mr A wrote to BOI throughout the time he had his account and explained he would only be 
paying £30 per month. BOI applied late payment fees and interest to Mr As account. It said 
it did this as it didnt receive the minimum payments by the due date and that due to being in 
arrears it cancelled the promotional interest-free period.
BOI has been chasing Mr A for around £300 outstanding. It says this is made up of interest 
and fees that were applied because Mr A didnt make his minimum repayments. Mr A says 
he has paid off the original balance and shouldnt be charged this. He said he couldnt afford 
to pay more than £30 per month and made this clear at the outset. BOI did offer Mr A £75 
compensation for delays in passing his letters to the correct department.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that there wasnt any evidence of 
Mr A saying he was in financial difficulties and that it was made clear what the minimum 
payment was. So, she didnt think BOI had done anything wrong. And she felt the £75 
compensation for the delays was fair.
Mr A said he had made it clear in his letters that he couldnt afford to pay more than £30 per 
month, and that this was the agreement he made at the outset. So, he asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for similar reasons. I 
can see the investigator set out in detail why she came to the outcome she did and so Ill 
focus this decision on the key issues, rather than address everything again.
Mr A has said he was asked how much he could pay every month when he applied for his 
credit card and that this was part of the agreement. I understand Mr A believes this to be the 
case but Ive not seen any evidence to show that BOI accepted Mr A would only pay £30 per 
month. And I think its unlikely that this wouldve happened because this is a credit card. This 
means that Mr A could set up a direct debit  in this case for £30  which would be taken 
provided it covers the minimum repayment. But in Mr As case, his minimum repayment was 
higher than £30. This was made clear on his statement. So, he needed to pay the minimum 
payment to avoid any fees being applied to his account.
Mr A cancelled his direct debit because the minimum payment was higher than he wanted to 
pay. And I think BOI made it clear that he would still need to meet the minimum payment, 
and to contact it if he couldnt do so. Mr A says he made it clear he couldnt afford to pay 
more. But I dont think his letters make this clear. Most of his letters refer to his 
understanding that he only agreed to pay £30, not that he was in any financial difficulty. So, 
Ive not seen a reason that BOI shouldve frozen any of the interest and charges at the time.
Mr A has shown us a letter he sent to BOI in October 2017 which says he couldnt afford to 
pay any more than £30. BOI has said that it didnt receive this letter, but I can see it sent 
Mr A letters with instructions on what to do if he was struggling financially. Mr A didnt 
respond to this letter by calling the number BOI provided. I wouldve expected Mr A to do this 
to get BOIs help if he couldnt afford the minimum repayments. But Mr As subsequent 
letters refer only to him not wanting to pay more than £30. So, I dont think BOI did anything 
wrong applying the fees and charges that were set out in Mr As credit agreement when he 
didnt meet his minimum repayments.
I can see that BOI did delay passing letters on to the right department but I think its offer of 
£75 compensation for this is fair and reasonable. The main issue here is that Mr A believed 
he could pay £30 per month towards his credit card. However, I cant see that this was 
something he was told. And Im also satisfied that Mr A was made aware of what his 
minimum payments were and what would happen if he didnt make those payments. I can 
see BOI told Mr A how to contact it if he couldnt afford those payments and I cant see that 
he was in financial difficulty. As such, I dont think BOI has acted unreasonably in applying 
the interest and charges to Mr As account. So, I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr A to decide 
whether he wants to accept Bank of Ireland (UK) Plcs offer of £75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman