DRN-2776920
The complaint
Mr W complains that America Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) failed to give him 
the correct information regarding his reward points. 
 
What happened
In August 2018, Mr W contacted AESEL to transfer membership reward points to his 
Australian American Express account. At the time, he says he was told he would be able to 
make a further transfer in January 2019, a date which he made note of. Because of this, he 
only transferred a certain amount of points.
 
Mr W called again in March 2019 to transfer the rest of his points to the same account, as a 
change to the transfer scheme meant he would end up with additional membership reward 
points. But the transfer wasnt made. When Mr W called to ask why, he was advised that a 
transfer can only be done once a year has passed since the last transfer, meaning he 
wouldnt be able to transfer any points until August 2019.
 
Had he known, Mr W says he would have transferred all of his points in August 2018, or he 
would have arranged for his wife to make a transfer in the March, as she hadnt made any 
herself previously and could have earnt the points in the interim instead of him. 
Mr W feels he was misadvised during his initial contact with AESEL in August and in the 
following March. 
He has explained that he was told during the call in August that his points could be 
transferred again in January, which coincided with when his card was due to renew. 
Because of this, he believes the agent thought it would be one transfer per card 
membership year rather than a year since the last transfer.
 
Mr W would like AESEL to put him back in the position he would have been in, had he been 
allowed to make the second transfer, by either sending points to his Australian account, 
giving him the points he would have got had the transfer gone through at that time, or paying 
him the cash equivalent of the points he would have received.
 
AESEL explained they didnt have a recording of the call that took place in August 2018. 
They also said that at no point during the call in March was Mr W told he could only make 
one transfer in any 12 months, or that he was ineligible to make the transfer. They accepted 
that the advisor should have asked if he had carried out any transfers in the last 12 months. 
And if theyd done this, they would have been able to manage Mr Ws expectations as 
AESEL only allow one transfer in a rolling 12-month period.  
Our investigator was of the opinion that while AESEL could have advised Mr W better in 
March 2019, it was correct that he couldnt transfer points until 365 days had passed since 
the last one. He also didnt think it was fair for AESEL to give Mr W any more points, as they 
are not liable for any sequential loss Mr W feels he has incurred. 
AESEL have applied 10,000 points onto Mr Ws account as gesture of goodwill which our 
investigator thought was fair.
 
Mr W disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a provisional 
decision on 18 March 20201 setting out the reasons why I intended to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint in part. The following is an extract from my provisional findings which were set out 
in the decision:
 
Looking at the terms of Mr Ws account, they state:
Once a card member has had a transfer, they are ineligible for another transfer for the next 
365 days.
Its always difficult when key pieces of evidence arent available. In this case, I would have 
liked to have listened to the call that took place in August 2018 between Mr W and AESEL. 
But since its not available I have to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have 
happened. And given everything, I think its most likely that Mr W was given the wrong 
information. He has been very clear and consistent in what he has said and on balance, I 
believe his version of events most likely to be true.
 
Looking at the points specifically, Mr W has explained that in August 2018 his points balance 
was 415,004. For him to purchase the flights he was booking at this time, he needed to 
transfer 200,000 from the UK to Australia. This is when Mr W says he was told he would be 
able to make a further transfer in January. 
In November, Mr W learnt that the points transfer rate in Australia was due to change. 
Instead of one point being equal to one air mile, it was going to be two points, effectively 
halving the Australian value. So Mr W wanted to take this opportunity to transfer the rest of 
his points to his Australian account before the change happened. 
Had Mr W known he wouldnt have been able to make this transfer, he said he would have 
transferred all his points over to his Australian account back in August 2018. He then would 
have referred his wife for a card, which would have generated more points as a referral 
reward. He says he then would have used his wifes card going forward, as he wouldve 
known that he wouldnt be able to make any further transfers himself. 
Mr W explains his total loss overall was around 304,816 miles/points which has a cash 
equivalent of £4,572. He said he would be happy to receive 340,000 points to reflect time 
and effort spent on this complaint. 
Mr W has been very clear and precise in setting out what he would have done, had he been 
given the correct information during the call in August 2018. And I have no reason to doubt 
what he has said.
However, when making my decision, I must be impartial and fair to both parties in 
recognising what has gone wrong. In doing this, I need to look at what did happen, and not 
what could have happened. 
I believe Mr W was given the wrong information in August 2018, leading to a loss of 
expectation on his part and I have given this case a lot of time and thought. But I cannot be 
100% certain that had he been given the correct information, he would have gone on to 
receive the amount of points he says he lost out on. 
Because I have no concrete evidence to show me what would have happened for certain, I 
cant ask AESEL to compensate Mr W with what he is asking for. AESEL have given Mr W 10,000 points as a gesture of goodwill because he wasnt asked 
about any previous transfers during his call with them in March. But I think this should be 
increased. First of all, I believe the wrong information was given to Mr W in August, and I 
also feel Mr W should have been contacted by AESEL to let him know the transfer hadnt 
been made in March. Instead he had to contact them himself ten days later to find out what 
was going on. 
AESEL have let me know that Mr Ws card was closed in April 2019. This means they are 
unable to apply any further points to his account. Because of this, I feel a monetary reward 
for compensation should be made. 
Given everything, I think AESEL should pay Mr W £200 in addition to the 10,000 points that 
have already been applied in the past. This is for giving him the wrong information in August 
2018, for the loss of expectation, and for not contacting him in March to let him know the 
transfer wasnt possible.
AESEL replied to my provisional decision and agreed to pay Mr W £200 by cheque.
 
Mr W however was unhappy with my provisional decision. In summary he explained that the 
level of compensation recommended was less than 5% of the loss he would have incurred. 
Given his level of knowledge and history of using air miles to purchase flights etc, he feels I 
should base my decision on the fact he would have most likely transferred all of his points in 
August 2018, with his wife then earning points in the interim before the transfer was 
attempted in March 2019. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not minded to part from my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
Mr W accepts its not 100% certain that he would have transferred all of his points in August 
2018 had he been given the correct information. However, hes explained his thought 
process thoroughly and has said he would almost certainly have chosen to transfer the 
points. Mr W maintains this should be taken into consideration as his actions following that 
time support the fact he wanted to get the best deal possible.
 
I dont doubt this. I understand Mr W and his wife were heavily involved in earning and 
spending air miles and that it was a family hobby. Mr W has shown a great depth of 
knowledge in the system and has explained he has purchased many flights before. So I 
dont doubt his level of knowledge, or what his plans might have been, had he been given 
the correct information in August 2018.
 
I accept its most likely that incorrect information was given in to Mr W August 2018. But Mr 
W has agreed that nobody can be 100% certain of what would have happened if hed been 
given correct information. So, what I need to decide is what Mr W would have most likely 
done had the correct information been given in August 2018.
At this time, I dont think Mr W intended or needed to transfer more of his points. If he did, I 
think he would have done so. So, even if he had been told that he couldnt make a transfer 
for another 12 months, Im not persuaded that its most likely he would have transferred more 
points at this stage. I appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling that hes now more certain that he would have done. 
But I think thats said in hindsight - having later being informed about the change in the 
points transfer rate, rather than what he actually might have done at the time. Had the 
change in transfer rate not happened, I think its just as likely that he would have transferred 
his points much later than March 2019 and most likely over 12 months from the date of the 
first transfer. 
Mr W has explained that while its correct that his card was closed in April 2019, the 
associated reward account remains open meaning AESEL could in fact apply points should 
they be asked to.
 
Even so, I still feel the suggested amount of £200 should be paid as a monetary settlement 
to Mr W, by AESEL. 
I hope I have explained clearly the reasons why Im not asking AESEL to offer anything 
further to Mr W. Given everything, Im satisfied this is a fair outcome.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
 
American Express Services Europe Limited should pay Mr W £200 in addition to the 10,000 
points that have already been given. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman