DRN-3778704
The complaint
Mr M complains to Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium) about two bonds into which 
he invested. He says they were mis-sold to him as he wasnt told how risky they were. He 
says he wasnt given a fair account of how and where his money was invested. The bonds 
didnt suit his needs or attitude to risk.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr M invested into the following bonds with Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc):
2 June 2017 - £3,000  4 Year Compounding High-Yield Bond
3 November 2017 - £2,500  4 Year Compounding High-Yield Bond 
Sales of this bond were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business 
from B&G Plc, the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the 
bond, through a website it operated. And it was responsible for advertising/marketing the 
bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium. B&G Plc and BG 
Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 
2018.
Mr Ms investment in the bond
Mr M found details of the bond after seeing an advert on the internet. Once he made contact, 
he was called by a representative of BG Ltd. He made his applications online on the dates 
highlighted above. He had a modest understanding and experience of investment having 
invested in National Savings & Investment products, other fixed terms and savings products 
as well as a stocks and shares ISA. He said he was a fairly cautious investor.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of 
BG Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the 
fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short 
term and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), Uncle Buck went into administration in March 2020  and B&G Plc 
went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr M has not had his invested 
capital returned to him.
The application process
Mr M believes he applied online, and I have seen screen prints of each stage of the 
online application process. These show the application journey that Mr M underwent. 
This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the rules restricting who the bond could 
be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. The first was certification, where Mr M was categorised as an 
everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mr Ms complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said Mr M had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions once Mr Ms 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint and concluded it should be 
upheld. They said, in summary:The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr M as a 
restricted investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the 
bond for him  was misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to 
comply with the FCAs rules.
The website and marketing material were misleading.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory 
obligations. Had it done so, Mr M wouldnt have decided to invest or BG 
Ltd should have concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr M to invest. For 
these reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold 
the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mr M for the loss he has 
suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
The website and marketing material were not misleading  Mr M was given sufficient 
information and risk warnings. 
Regardless of label, Mr M was required to confirm that he met the requirements of 
a restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair nor reasonable to 
conclude that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr M giving an 
incorrect declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriate test answers, and these confirmations, were sufficient for Gallium 
to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience 
of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant 
rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test. 
Mr M made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it and did 
not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So, he would have proceeded with the investment regardless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 
(Communications with clients) are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and      
COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have 
considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary: 
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr M into certifying himself as 
belonging in a category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by 
changing the term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the 
category as being one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr M fairly or 
acting in his best interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr M, it 
is unlikely he would have certified himself as being a restricted investor. 
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not 
meet the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been 
apparent the bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr M. In the 
circumstances Mr M would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and 
reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bond to     
Mr M.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Ms complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr M would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so, I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium 
to compensate Mr M for his loss.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put   
Mr M as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not made the 
investment.I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr M's investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mr M £250 for the distress and inconvenience of losing the total amount of 
capital invested.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G Plc 4 
Year 
Compounding 
High-Yield 
Bond £3,000
BG23135Still exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
B&G Plc 4 
Year 
Compounding 
High-Yield 
Bond £2,500
BG25740Still exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the 
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr M agrees to Gallium 
taking ownership of the investment if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr M that he repays to Gallium any 
amount he may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted Income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does not mean that    
Mr M would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr M could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Catherine LangleyOmbudsman