DRN-2762650
The complaint
Mr G complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA charged an inactivity fee on one of his 
accounts.
What happened
Mr G didnt use one of his PayPal accounts for over twelve months, so PayPal charged a £9 
inactivity fee. Mr G considered this was unfair because he hadnt been notified about the 
charge. He also said he didnt know there was money in the account.
PayPal said it had charged the fee in line with the accounts terms and conditions, so it 
wasnt willing to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Mr G was unhappy with PayPals response, so he 
referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found that PayPal 
had notified Mr G about the charge through a different account he holds, so she considered 
he wouldve known that the same charge would apply to the account in question. The 
investigator was also satisfied that the charge was correctly applied in line with the accounts 
terms and conditions.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr G considers its unfair to conclude that notification of the charge on his other PayPal 
account meant he was automatically aware of it for the account in question. He considers 
PayPal should be able to demonstrate that it sent details about the charge to the email 
address for the account in question.
I take Mr Gs point. PayPal hasnt been able to provide any documentary evidence to show 
that an email or text was sent to Mr G to tell him about the charge.
But PayPal did send the information to Mr Gs personal email address. 
Mr G has also said that he didnt think there was any money in the account in question, 
which is why he wasnt expecting the charge. This suggests to me that hed been made 
aware of the possibility of a charge on the account.
With these points in mind, on balance I think its more likely than not that PayPal sent the 
information to the email address for the account in question. I think its unlikely that it 
wouldve sent the message to Mr Gs personal email address, but not to the address for the 
account in question.
So on balance I think its more likely than not that PayPal made Mr G aware of the charge 
and the relevant changes to the accounts terms and conditions.
PayPal has provided evidence to show there was a balance on the account and that the 
account hadnt been used for over twelve months. So Im satisfied that the inactivity fee was 
correctly charged in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
As such, Im not persuaded to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman