DRN-3088179
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Mr B and Mrs L hold with HSBC UK Bank Plc. There 
are three components to the mortgage; the original advance and two subsequent further 
advances. Each part of the mortgage is on an interest rate deal and subject to an early 
repayment charge (ERC). The deal on the main mortgage expires before the other two. Mr B 
and Mrs L are unhappy that HSBC didnt tell them, when taking out the further advances, 
that if they repay the main mortgage to move to another lender, theyll need to repay the 
further advances as well, and will pay ERCs to do so.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr B and Mrs L and HSBC. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has 
been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published, the circumstances of this dispute are a little unusual, and its important that I dont 
include any information that might result in Mr B and Mrs L being identified. Instead Ill focus 
on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
The essence of Mr B and Mrs Ls argument is that they didnt know they couldnt repay the 
main advance and leave the further advances running, and believe HSBC had a 
fundamental duty to explain that as part of the advice to take out the further advances. I 
know they feel very strongly about this, to the extent that the commissioned their own survey 
by circulating a questionnaire on the subject to friends and acquaintances, and sending us 
the results. 
Ive considered everything thats been said and provided, questionnaires included, but I dont 
agree with the premise on which Mr B and Mrs L are basing their case.
Its a standard and universal principle of mortgage lending that the legal charge (the 
mortgage deed) secures the first advance and then any further advances subsequent to 
that. The terms of the mortgage deed are that the initial lending has primacy, and any 
subsequent lending is secondary to it. This means, in essence, that borrowers can repay 
further advances without repaying the first advance, but they cannot repay the first advance 
without also repaying any further advances.
The form and function of the mortgage deed arent a matter of regulated mortgage advice for 
the lender to provide. Rather theyre a matter of legal advice for the borrowers conveyancing 
solicitor to provide, if required, at the time of executing the mortgage deed. So, no I dont 
consider this to be something that HSBC had an obligation to volunteer unprompted to Mr B 
and Mrs L during the phone calls in which the advice to take out the further advances was 
given.
Of course, if Mr B and Mrs L had asked a question on this specific topic during those calls, 
HSBC would have an obligation to answer such a question fully and accurately, to ensure 
Mr B and Ms W were properly informed when deciding what to do. Mr B and Mrs L said it 
would be impossible to reach a true view of the case without obtaining recordings of the 
calls. Weve done that, and at no time was such a question asked of HSBC. That being so, 
I cant find it at fault for not answering a question it wasnt asked.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman