DRN-3016692
The complaint
G, a company, complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim on its nursery 
care insurance policy following a roof leak. 
What happened
G said the business had a number of porta cabins and one of the roofs developed a leak due 
to bad weather at some point during 2020. G said it wasnt aware of the damage until the 
internal ceiling panels were removed so they could be replaced.
Once the panels had been removed G could see rain had been getting in and the timber roof 
structure on one side had rotted. G said the business couldnt use that part of the nursey 
until the roof was repaired. And it wants Covea to pay for the repairs or replace the damaged 
cabin.
Covea said itd carried out an inspection of the cabin. Itd declined the claim because the 
damage had taken place over a period of time rather than because of a one-off event such 
as a storm. Covea appreciated G might not have been aware of the full extent of the damage 
but there was evidence thered been an issue with the roof for some time. And the policy 
excluded damage that happened gradually over a period of time.
G wasnt satisfied with Coveas response. So it contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. He could see G thought the roof mustve been damaged by storms 
sometime during 2020. But itd not been aware of the damage when it occurred due to covid-
19 restrictions. 
Our investigator said Covea needed to show the gradually operating cause exclusion applied 
to Gs claim. He felt the surveyors report was plausible and persuasive and backed up by 
photos. Our investigator could see water staining to the ceiling. So he said it was likely there 
was some indication water was getting in. 
Our investigator felt the damage had happened over time. And it was likely G had some 
indication there was a problem. So he felt Covea had done enough to show the exclusion 
applied. And itd acted fairly in declining the businesss claim.
G didnt accept our investigators findings. It said the roof was being replaced for cosmetic 
reasons as it looked untidy. It was only when the joiner took away the panels that the 
damage because apparent. G said a joiner had replaced a small timber part of the ceiling a 
year earlier while replacing a door. But there was no indication regarding any timber rot 
elsewhere. G said it hadnt been possible to act any earlier. So its asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
G operates a business that uses a number of porta cabins. During a routine refurbishment it 
noticed the joists and plyboard had rotted in one of the cabins. G says there hadnt been any 
previous problems or repairs needed. And it thought the roof had been overlaid with felt 
about four years earlier. 
The dispute here is over what caused the damage to the roof. This is because Coveas 
policy specifically excludes damage caused by wear, tear or any gradually operating 
cause.
My decision is based on the available evidence. I have to reach a decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words what is more likely to have happened in light of the evidence 
and the wider circumstances. 
G wasnt able to say when the damage occurred. But it thought it mustve happened during 
the previous years bad weather. Itd only become apparent during redecoration after the 
interior ceiling panels had been removed. It said the porta cabins hadnt been used for a 
considerable period due to covid-19 restrictions. So it hadnt been noticed before.
Covea asked a surveyor to inspect the cabin. But the surveyors report couldnt find any sign 
of storm damage. The roof was dished and holding water. And the felt had delaminated 
allowing water to enter over an extended period of time. The joist ends were badly decayed 
and a recent temporary repair to one joist was noted. Overall the surveyor felt the damage 
wasnt consistent with a recent, sudden ingress of water due to storm-type weather. It was 
likely the result of a gradual process. And therefore it wasnt covered by the insurance policy.
I can also see one of the contractors G asked for a quote reported the damage was the 
direct result off the roof leaking and running down the wall cavity and rotting the ceiling 
panels, internal wall panels (which are only vinyl faced 3mm plywood and floor boarding). 
The doors have also been affected by rainwater not being diverted away due to the 
deformation of the rotting roofing boards.
Looking at the photos from the surveyors report the roof doesnt appear to be in a good 
condition. I would also expect roofing timber to be durable, but the surveyors report says the 
joist ends were badly decayed. Thats something that could only have occurred over a long 
period of time.
G says it hadnt been able to use the porta cabins as part of its normal operations due to the 
recent restrictions. But I think it wouldve been able to carry out routine inspections and 
maintenance during that time and the interior photos show evidence of staining to one of the 
other roof panels.
Id expect a well-maintained building to be able to withstand all but the most severe weather. 
Both the surveyor and the contractor said the damage had occurred gradually over a period 
of time rather than because of a one-off event such as a storm. And I dont think G has been 
able to show a storm was the more likely cause of the damage. The evidence suggests the 
periods of bad weather had highlighted the roofs poor condition rather than being the main 
cause of it.
Damage caused by wear, tear or any gradually operating cause is excluded in the general 
exclusions section of the insurance policy. And I think Covea was entitled to rely on its 
surveyors opinion to decline Gs claim. I dont think G has thrown sufficient doubt on its 
conclusions to make me ask Covea to change its position. 
Based on everything Ive seen I think Covea has acted fairly in declining Gs claim on the 
nursery insurance policy. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman