DRN-3805752
The complaint
Mr P complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) unfairly declined his 
storm claim under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P made a claim to Admiral for the damage caused to his property by a storm. The render 
to the rear of the property had fallen away in one place and was badly damaged in another 
area. Mr P had a quote for the damage to be repaired which came to £2,650 plus VAT.
Admiral instructed a surveyor to review the damage and to validate the claim. Admiral 
acknowledged there were storm conditions at the time of the reported incident. However, it 
decided to decline the claim. Admiral said the surveyor who discussed the damage with 
your contractor confirmed the damage had occurred due to render failure and not a one-off 
event. Therefore, although the storm definition was met this is not the sole reason the 
damage has occurred. Damage caused to your property which has occurred over a gradual 
period of time is unfortunately not covered by your policy.
Mr P said he had maintained his property and provided invoices related to some previous 
work. He said the damage he claimed for had been caused by the storm, so made a 
complaint to Admiral.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She thought the damage was more likely 
caused by the storm rather than underlying wear and tear. Admiral disagreed with our 
investigator, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have started by considering whether I think Admiral were reasonable in declining the claim. 
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Admiral has acknowledged that the weather at the time met its definition of a storm, so I 
dont need to consider this point any further. Ill consider the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
I think significant winds could cause damage to render on exposed parts of a building. 
Therefore, as the damage observed was like this, I do think the damage claimed for is 
consistent with damage a storm typically causes. Therefore, I will consider the next question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I have considered what Admiral said when it declined the claim. It said the damage was 
because of render failure and not because of a one-off event, such as a storm. I have 
checked the terms and conditions of the policy and it shows that gradual causes arent 
covered. This is defined in the policy as any loss or damage caused by anything that 
happens gradually, including wear and tear, wet and dry rot, or damage due to exposure to 
sunlight or atmospheric conditions, settlement, mildew, rust or corrosion.
Therefore, I think if Admiral has shown there was pre-existing damage to the property then 
Im not likely to uphold this complaint. I will also consider if theres evidence of reasonable 
maintenance to keep the property in good repair.
Its Admirals obligation to prove the exclusion clause applies. I would expect Admiral to 
make its decision based on the expert it deployed to validate the damage and any reports 
that are produced. So, Ive considered what the surveyors report included.
The conclusion to the report states After reference to the office as this is a grade 2 listed 
building in the damage is quite unique I have been advised to repudiate the claim based on 
the lines of failed render. I find this statement interesting. Normally the conclusion of a 
report will be a recommendation by the surveyor to approve or reject the claim  in this case, 
the surveyor hasnt made a recommendation. The decision appears to have been made 
remotely by the office. This casts doubt in my mind whether the surveyor was of the same 
opinion.
Elsewhere in the report, the surveyor has commented:
The property is grade 2 listed and is of a timber frame with render which is hair end chalk 
and lime. The property is also painted in white lime wash. The damage is to the rear of the 
property which has two apexes and a section of lower roof.The damage is to one of the 
apexes as you look at the property from the rear it is the left side a section of hair end and 
chalk lime has fallen away approximately one square metre, then below and to the left of this 
damage there is a section of hair end and chalk lime that has blown and could possibly fall 
down.
I did not want to use ladders against this wall just in case I caused further damage but to the 
areas I could reach the render appeared in good order and not loose.
As the claim was rejected for gradual causes, Id expect some reference to what was 
causing the gradual damage in the surveyors report. However, I havent been able to find a 
reference by the surveyor that the damage to the property was caused gradually or over 
time. I dont think the conclusion Admiral has drawn is reasonable based upon what the 
surveyor has written. There is no justification as to why wear and tear caused the damage as 
opposed the storm.
Ive also considered any maintenance that has been carried out to the property. Mr P has 
provided evidence that he had extensive work carried out to the render on his property in 
2010 and 2018. In 2010, he spent over £2,000 on external render work on his property and 
in 2018 he spent over £13,000 on maintenance work which included removing the old render and replacing with new render and painting it.
I think this provides a clear picture that Mr P has made every effort to keep his house in a 
good condition. The latest work was extensive and only four years ago. Therefore, I dont 
think there is evidence of pre-existing issues to the render. I dont think Admiral has shown 
the damage has been caused gradually. I think its more likely the storm was the main cause 
of the damage to the property. As Mr P is covered for storm damage, I uphold this complaint. 
I require Admiral to settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I intend Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman