DRN-3676826
The complaint
Mr M complains that Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) refused to accept an 
instruction to transfer his pension to another provider unless he obtained written financial 
advice. He also complains that the transfer value of his pension is lower than it should be.
 
What happened
Mr M was a member of his former employers occupational pension scheme (OPS). Mr Ms 
pension was in the money purchase section of the OPS and it included a minimum pension 
underpin guarantee. The trustees of the OPS decided to wind the pension scheme up and 
Mr Ms pension (together with Additional Voluntary Contributions hed paid into the OPS) 
were used, in 2019, to purchase a guaranteed income policy (an annuity) with PIC.
Mr M says he does recall receiving some correspondence from the trustees of the OPS but 
he didnt think they could transfer his pension without his express consent. 
In 2020 Mr M decided to consolidate all his pension arrangements into a Self-Invested 
Pension Plan (SIPP). He says he has been able to transfer several pensions  all worth 
more than £30,000  into his SIPP. It was only PIC which required him to obtain written 
financial advice before it would permit him to transfer the annuity into his SIPP.
Mr M complained about the actions of the trustees of the OPS. He said they shouldnt have 
transferred his pension into an annuity policy, which he says is the worst possible investment 
for someone in his position, without his express consent. 
Mr M has approached his trusted advisers for guidance but he says they are reluctant to 
advise him to transfer the annuity, held with PIC, to the SIPP. He says that other advisers 
might recommend the transfer  but he thinks that is because they are keen to receive fees. 
As a result he says his pension is now trapped in PIC where the investment performance is 
poor. He complained to PIC.
PIC investigated his complaint. It said that the trustees of the OPS had sent him multiple 
letters advising him that an annuity would be purchased and informed him that if he didnt 
want that to happen he had other options. They also offered him access to independent 
financial advice but Mr M hadnt responded. As a result his pension account within the OPS 
was used to buy an annuity equal to the minimum underpin pension guaranteed by his OPS. 
Any additional funds in his pension account (including his AVCs) were used to purchase 
additional pension income. 
PIC said it required Mr M to take financial advice before he could transfer his annuity to the 
SIPP because his benefits were worth in excess of £30,000 and included safeguarded 
benefits.
Mr M didnt agree. He referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into his 
complaint. He said that our service couldnt investigate what Mr M had said about the action 
of the Trustees of the OPS when theyd decided to wind up the OPS and purchase an 
annuity with PIC. If Mr M wanted to progress his complaint about those matters he would 
need to complain to the trustees and, if he remained unhappy with their answer, refer to the 
Pensions Ombudsman. Our service was able to look into what happened when Mr M asked 
PIC to transfer his annuity into his SIPP.
Our investigator said PIC hadnt done anything wrong when it required Mr M to take 
independent advice before agreeing to transfer his annuity. He said Mr Ms annuity included 
certain safeguarded benefits and it was worth in excess of £30,000. He also pointed out that 
even if the OPS hadnt been wound up, Mr M would have needed to obtain independent 
financial advice before he couldve transferred it into a SIPP  because it had included 
safeguarded benefits.
Mr M didnt agree. He pointed out:
he had been able to transfer his other pensions without having to obtain independent 
financial advice; 
PIC had violated financial regulations when it had sold a product to a retail customer 
without checking that it was suitable; and
The value of the annuity which PIC had provided looked to be fraudulently low. He 
provided a spreadsheet to show that the annuity valuation provided by PIC would 
have a breakeven point when he was 107 years of age.
Our investigator didnt change his view. He did ask PIC to comment on the spreadsheet 
Mr M had provided. Its actuaries reviewed the spreadsheet. They said that the assumptions 
Mr M had used (in respect of mortality and inflation) were not appropriate. It was because of 
this that his valuation was greater than that provided by PIC. Our investigator considered 
what PIC said. He said that our service was not an actuarial service but he had looked at the 
assumptions used by PIC and he thought they were fair and reasonable. He also said he 
was not aware that the Regulator had raised any issues about how PIC calculated its 
transfer values.
Mr M didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, Id just point out that, as our investigator said, the actions of the trustees of the 
OPS is not something our service can consider. So, we cannot look into Mr Ms complaints 
about the decisions of the Trustees of the OPS or its actions when it wound up the OPS and 
decided to purchase individual annuity plans for each of its members, including Mr M, with 
PIC. But, as our investigator said, we can consider Mr Ms complaints about what happened 
when he asked PIC to transfer his annuity to a SIPP and the comments hes made about the 
valuation provided by PIC.
Mr Ms request to transfer the annuity into a SIPP
PIC has confirmed to Mr M that he can transfer his annuity into his SIPP. But, it says that 
because the value of his annuity policy exceeds £30,000 and because it includes 
safeguarded benefits, in the form of the partial guarantee included in the annuity, he is 
required to take independent financial advice. Mr M holds one annuity policy with PIC and 
PIC has confirmed that the value of the safeguarded benefits cannot be split out from the 
non-safeguarded benefits.Section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015 and regulations made under it require pension 
scheme members who have subsisting rights in respect of safeguarded benefits worth more 
than £30,000 under the scheme to take appropriate independent advice from a Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) authorised adviser before taking certain actions. Mr Ms pension 
contains such safeguarded benefits and therefore advice is required before the pension is 
transferred and these benefits are lost.  
So, I dont think PIC did anything wrong when it told Mr M it required him to obtain 
independent financial advice before he could transfer the benefits under his annuity to his 
SIPP.
The transfer value provided by PIC
As our investigator explained, our service is not able to check actuarial calculations. But I 
considered submissions from Mr M and PIC to decide whether I think PIC has treated Mr M 
unfairly.
Mr M has produced his own spreadsheet showing the data that he thinks shouldve been 
used when calculating the transfer value. As a result he says the transfer value provided by 
PIC is too low. He thinks the transfer value should be around £171,000  which is about 33% 
higher than the figure produced by PIC. 
PIC asked its actuary to comment on the spreadsheet Mr M provided. It provided detailed 
submissions which have been shared with Mr M. In summary, it says that the reason for the 
difference in the transfer value is because of differences around two assumptions  mortality 
and future inflation. It also notes that Mr M has not included increases to his income when 
calculating the age when he would break-even. 
PIC says that its mortality assumption uses industry data based on members of Mr Ms 
Scheme  rather than using nationwide data which it says is not appropriate. Regarding 
inflation assumptions, PIC says it used assumptions based on market expectations at the 
time (2019) whereas Mr M has based his assumption on 2021 data.
As mentioned above, when considering this matter, I have not checked the calculations, but I 
have thought about the reasons why the actuary for PIC says it has used the assumptions it 
did and why it says the assumptions Mr M has used in his spreadsheet are not appropriate 
or might differ.
Mr M says that the mortality assumptions used by PIC do not take account of the type of 
environment he was working in and the impact it had on his health and life expectancy. He 
thinks PIC should have contacted him to find out about his individual situation. 
Having thought about the mortality data used by PIC, I dont think it would be reasonable to 
have expected PIC to individualise that data in the way Mr M wanted. In circumstances 
where PIC was providing annuity policies on instructions from the trustees of the OPS, Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for PIC to rely on industry data representing scheme members. 
Having considered everything, I think, on balance, that the reasons the actuary has provided 
for the data used here make sense and seem reasonable. I dont think PIC has deliberately 
used inappropriate assumptions when calculating the transfer value or that it has otherwise 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Pension Insurance 
Corporation plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman