DRN-1791949
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that damage was caused to his vehicle, whilst it was being repaired under a 
claim met by Esure Insurance Limited (Esure).
What happened
Mr S held a motor insurance policy with Esure. When his vehicle was damaged in 2017, Mr 
S brought a claim for repair. Esure appointed approved repairers to undertake the repairs. 
Mr S was dissatisfied with the work. The vehicle went into a different approved repairers 
garage in March/April 2019. Mr S says that the bumper was damaged during this time. 
Esure have investigated this complaint. They say it is unlikely that the damage to the bumper 
was caused by the repairer. First, no repair work was undertaken in this area of the vehicle 
and second, there was pre-existing damage to the bumper.
Our investigator considered the complaint and initially decided to uphold it. In response 
Esure then produced copies of photographs and a further explanation from an expert 
engineer. After further consideration, our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. 
She thought it wasnt unreasonable for Esure to rely upon the conclusions of the expert 
engineer, namely that the paint cracks and scratching were likely a defect as there was no 
significant damage to the face of the bumper.
Mr S disagrees with the view. He questions the reliability of the engineering evidence and 
relies upon his photographs. Mr S is frustrated by these ongoing problems.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that the bumper has some damage. Mr S is adamant that the bumper was 
undamaged before it went into the garage in 2019. He points to the position of the damage 
and the cracks in the paint, suggesting the damage was caused by the vehicle being 
reversed into an object.
Ive balanced Mr Ss point of view against the evidence provided by Esure, including 
photographs taken by another approved repairer in 2017 and a record which refers to some 
damage to the bumper.
Ive also considered the expert evidence relied upon by Esure. Initially the engineer thought, 
The damage to the rear bumper could best be described as minor blemishes and are not 
the result of a one-off occurrence but is the result of many different incidents probable over a 
period of time gradually adding to the existing damage, not unusual for this age of car.  . . Each part of the damage to the rear bumper is of a different severity and different direction, 
the paint around parking sensor is flaking off. The previous repairer noted some damage on 
the same general area back in 2017. 
With all of the above being taken into consideration the damage is a collection of pre-existing 
damage and not as a result of a single incident caused by the repairer.
In response to questions, the engineer concluded that the bumper was, showing signs of 
general wear and tear as a result of many different causes, some of the damage is due to 
impact, others just scratching, some paint chips (there are also paint chips to the boot lid), all 
are in different directions and severity some vertical, some horizontal some diagonally, some 
I believe are due to previous work as per the paint chipping/flaking around the parking 
sensor.
Having been asked to review additional photographs of the bumper, the engineer 
acknowledged that impact related damage could not be discounted as there was scratching 
along the bumper. But he concluded that, 
the paint fault is more likely to be some sort of paint film fault caused by poor adhesion to 
the plastic bumper for the following reasons:
*If the plastic bumper was impacted it would take considerable force to cause a cracking of 
the paint film, but there is an absence of any damage to the facing part of the bumper that 
would support this.
. . . is a heavy steel support bar that sits immediately behind the plastic outer shell of the 
bumper to lend some stiffening to the structure of the bumper assembly, this would need to 
bend on impact to allow the outer cover to crease/fracture the paint film that far back, but as 
I have stated the front facing part is not showing any signs that would justify the 
policyholders theory.
*The images supplied by [original repairer] show multiple areas of non-related damage to the 
rear bumper and the area in question ,paint chips, scratches going in various directions, 
typical of the usual wear and tear on a car of this age.
In my opinion the only other explanation is that the paint cracks/scratching is a paint defect 
,this is supported by the paint flaking around the parking sensor and the images showing the 
colour of the bumper to be different to the adjacent panels
I appreciate Mr S believes the repairer caused the damage to the bumper and I dont 
underestimate his strength of feeling about this matter. Mr S says the engineer has changed 
his evidence. But overall, I consider the experts evidence is consistent. Whilst the engineer 
did identify a possible alternative explanation, his overall conclusion was that the damage 
shown on the bumper was more likely than not caused by wear and tear and a paint defect, 
rather than an impact. The record of damage to the bumper in 2017 was also consistent with 
there being pre-existing damage. So, in my view, it was not unreasonable for Esure to prefer 
the engineers conclusions.
In light of my findings, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Esure to do 
anything more.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I wont be upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman