DRN-2773281
The complaint
Ms W complains that a car she acquired, via a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited, wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In December 2019, Ms W entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
for a used car. The car was around four years old and had a mileage of 54,000.
Ms W says that when she collected the car from the dealership, she noticed the engine 
management light was illuminated on the dashboard and the car wasnt driving properly. The 
dealership took the car back and inspected it. Ms W says she was told that the issue was 
fixed but, within a short time, the engine management light came back on. Ms W says she 
then went back and forth to the dealership, before the car was taken back in for repair it in 
mid-January 2020.
The car remained at the dealership and Ms W became frustrated at the lack of progress in 
repairing it so, in March 2020, she complained to MotoNovo and asked to reject the car and 
cancel the agreement.
MotoNovo liaised with the dealership, who explained repairs had been delayed due to a part 
having to be ordered and said the car would be ready shortly. However, due to the 
pandemic, the garage then had to close delaying the repairs further.
In April 2020, MotoNovo sent Ms W its final response letter in which it said it was upholding 
her complaint as the car required repairs but didnt agree that she was entitled to reject it. 
This was because she had agreed to the dealership repairing the car, and the delays had 
been out of the dealers hands. It reimbursed Ms W with the equivalent of one months 
instalment under the agreement to reflect the inconvenience of being without the car. 
However, it said that as travel was restricted by the government, and Ms W was able to walk 
or cycle to her work, it would only offer to reimburse any travel costs for shopping or medical 
appointments in addition to this payment.
Ms W disagreed with the view taken by MotoNovo and complained to this service. Ms W 
said that she didnt get the car back until June 2020, but within a short time it had required 
further repairs, so she had taken it to a third-party garage to be looked at. Further repairs 
had been carried out to the cost of £350, which Ms W had paid for. She asked to now be 
able to reject the car and receive a full refund of all her instalments plus the costs of road 
tax, car insurance and the final repair. Ms W confirmed that the car was now fixed.
Our investigator recommended that Ms Ws complaint should be partially upheld. She said, 
looking at the evidence, she didnt think the car had been of satisfactory quality at the point 
of sale but, as the car had now been fully repaired, rejection wasnt proportionate. She said it 
would be fair for Ms W to be reimbursed her monthly instalments for the period she was 
without the car, (December 2019 to June 2020), together with £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, as there had been a breach of contract.
Our investigator said she didnt think it was reasonable to ask MotoNovo to reimburse the 
cost of the repair carried out by the third-party garage in July 2020, as Ms W hadnt spoken 
with MotoNovo and informed it that the earlier repair may have failed. So, she hadnt given 
MotoNovo any opportunity to investigate this or agree to any other work. The evidence 
provided by that third-party garage also didnt set out that the repair was due to any failure of 
the dealership to correctly repair the car previously. 
Ms W agreed with our investigators view but MotoNovo said that to refund all of the monthly 
instalments, for the period Ms W had been without the car, was unreasonable. This was 
because the delay in repairing the car wasnt the dealerships fault but was due to the impact 
of the pandemic and the garage having to close. It said Ms W wouldnt have been able to 
use the car much during this time as travel wasnt permitted and, as she worked locally, 
shed been able to get there either by walking or cycling. It said it had offered to reimburse 
essential travel, but Ms W hadnt claimed any. MotoNovo said the monthly instalments 
werent rental payments but were to actually pay for the car. 
As MotoNovo didnt agree with the view of our investigator the complaint has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances .
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here, the car wasnt new, being around five years old and with a mileage of 54,000. I think 
that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would have expected there to 
be issues with maintenance and repair over time since components of the car would have 
been subject to wear and tear through use. So, unlike a new car, there wouldnt be 
expectation that the car was fault free.
Ms W experienced an issue with the car from day one. Ive seen that during December 
2019 the car was in and out of the dealership and the issue wasnt resolved. The car went 
in for repairs in January 2020, which was prior to the lockdown. I think its fair to say that 
at this point Ms W had agreed for the car to repaired.
The dealership says that the car required a new fuel pump, sensor, injector and seal to be 
fitted, and that it was also looked at by the manufacturer, who contributed, as a gesture of 
goodwill, to the repairs. I appreciate that the delays to fixing the car werent the fault of the 
dealership, but they also werent the fault of Ms W and she was left without the car for 
many months.
Im satisfied that the evidence supports that the car wasnt of satisfactory condition from 
the point of sale. As set out the car required repairs within a very short-time of Ms W 
acquiring it and so I think Ms W would have been entitled to reject it at that point. 
However, Ive seen she agreed to having the car repaired but later changed her mind when the repairs took several weeks to arrange. Ms W says she was frustrated by the lack 
of communication from the dealership, and I havent seen any evidence that everything 
was fully explained to her. I also think its reasonable for Ms W to have expected these 
repairs to have been carried out in a timely manner. I can understand her concern that she 
was paying for something she did not not have and could not use.
But, while I think Ms W had been entitled to reject the car at the start of the agreement, I 
dont think that this action would now be fair and proportionate. This is because the car 
has been fully repaired and returned to her from June 2020. She has been able to make 
full use of the car since then. I think the fair outcome is for Ms W to receive a 
reimbursement of some of her monthly instalments, together with an award of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience dealing with the faulty car has caused 
her.
MotoNovo says its unfair for Ms W to be reimbursed all of the monthly payments she 
made while she didnt have the car. It says that these monthly instalments arent rentals 
but are actually paying off the cost of the car. It says it should be considered that, for the 
majority of this period, Ms W wouldnt have been able to use the car due to the restrictions 
in place.
I disagree with the view of MotoNovo. Ms W had purchased the car so that she would 
have use of it. However, due to the condition of the car she was unable to do so, and this 
was a breach of the agreement between her and MotoNovo. While I accept that Ms W 
was able to walk or cycle to work, she still may have wished to be able to use her car, and 
I dont think its fair for that to be considered unreasonable just because she was able to 
get there by another method. I also think its fair I take into account that Ms W was without 
the car for a period prior to the lockdown.
So, as Ms W was without the car as a result of a breach of contract, I think shes entitled 
to be reimbursed the monthly instalments she made from December 2019 to June 2020, 
when she wasnt able to use it. I dont think this puts Ms W in an unfair position as, while I 
appreciate the payments go towards paying off the cost of the car, this is also a 
depreciating asset and those payments are for her to be able to make full use of it.
I agree with the view given by our investigator that it would be unfair to also ask MotoNovo 
to reimburse the later repair in July 2020, since it wasnt consulted on that and had no 
opportunity to look to investigate. Ms W also hasnt disagreed with what the investigator 
said.
The investigator didnt recommend that the insurance and road tax costs should be 
reimbursed either, and Ms W also hasnt raised any objection to that view. Under the 
agreement Ms W is obliged to have the car insured and taxed so as she is keeping the 
car, I think its fair she meets these expenses. 
Ms W was put to inconvenience and caused distress by having to deal with the faulty car 
and I think its fair she is compensated for that. I think the amount of £150 fairly reflects 
the impact this would have had.
For the reasons given above Im partially upholding Ms Ws complaint.
 
Putting things right
Im asking MotoNovo to do the following:Reimburse Ms W all of her monthly instalments made from the start of the agreement 
in December 2019 until the car was collected, having been repaired in June 2020. 
Pay Ms W interest on the above amount at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date 
of payment until the date settlement.
Pay Ms W £150 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
dealing with the faulty car.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Ms Ws complaint. Im asking 
MotoNovo Finance Limited to do the following:
Reimburse Ms W all of her monthly instalments made from the start of the agreement 
in December 2019 until the car was collected, having been repaired in June 2020. 
Pay Ms W interest on the above amount at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date 
of payment until the date settlement.
Pay Ms W £150 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
dealing with the faulty car.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman