DRN-1724183
 
The complaint
Mrs W says MYJAR Limited lent to her irresponsibly. She says the loans MYJAR approved 
were not affordable for her. She says that MYJAR shouldve seen this and not lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mrs W between September 
2017 and July 2018.
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm date ended
1 06/09/2017 £450.00 12 31/08/2018
2 03/07/2018 £700.00 24 outstanding
Mrs W has been unable to repay loan 2 and an outstanding balance remains. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the checks MYJAR did before 
approving loan 1 were proportionate. And whilst he thought MYJAR shouldve made better 
checks before approving loan 2 he didnt have enough to say that this loan wasnt affordable. 
Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She maintained that she could not afford the 
loans and she was borrowing from other people to make ends meet. As no agreement has 
been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost credit - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ws complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint and Ive explained why below.
For loan 1 Mrs W needed to repay around £70 a month for 12 months. Ive seen a record of 
the information Mrs W provided when she completed her loan application. Mrs W said she 
had a monthly income of £1,200. Taking into account what Mrs W told MYJAR, and what it 
saw on her credit file, MYJAR calculated her expenditure was around £1,000. So the loan 
wouldve seemed affordable to MYJAR. 
As this was the first loan Mrs W was taking with MYJAR, and given the proportion of the 
amount being borrowed in relation to what she declared as her monthly disposable income. I 
think it was reasonable, in this case, for MYJAR to rely on this information 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely MYJAR was made aware of any 
financial problems Mrs W mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for MYJAR to rely on the 
information it obtained and it was reasonable for it to approve loan 1. 
Loan 2 was taken just before loan 1 ended. It was for a larger amount and the repayment 
term was increased. That said the monthly repayments were lower at around £55 a month. 
And Mrs W did not have any repayment problems with loan 1. So, on the face of it, this loan 
would also have seemed affordable to MYJAR. 
But by that time Mrs W had already been in debt for nearly a year, and given the length of 
time she was committing to make repayments going forward, I think MYJAR shouldve made 
further checks to see if she could sustainably make these repayments over this length of 
time. 
But whilst Mrs W has supplied some information about her circumstances much of this 
doesnt relate to the time of the loans. And I understand the loans were repaid from an 
account which I dont have any details of. So I cant say for certain that MYJAR would have 
been able to say the loan wasnt affordable if it had made better checks. So Im also not 
persuaded that MYJAR was wrong to have approved loan 2. 
So I think MYJARs decisions to lend for these loans was likely to be reasonable and Im not 
upholding Mrs Ws complaint about them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman