DRN-2657866
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC delayed in sending him out a new credit card for 
several weeks. Hes also unhappy with the service he received when he was trying to 
resolve the problem and doesnt consider the compensation already paid is sufficient for the 
impact this has had on him.
What happened
Mr B had a Lloyds credit card that was due to expire at the end of August 2019. He was 
expecting a new card to be sent to him before the expiry date but this didnt happen so in the 
middle of August he contacted Lloyds. He says he was told that the quickest way to get a 
new card would be to say the existing one had been lost. Mr B did this but when the 
replacement card arrived it had the same expiry date as the original one. And the same thing 
happened again with the second replacement card.
Mr B complained about the delay and the failure to provide him with a new card.  He says 
Lloyds told him that, due to changes in the market, it had moved his account to a new credit 
card. It was now sending him a new card and pin although this could take up to 2 weeks. 
Lloyds then arranged for Mr Bs new card to be sent out by courier to speed up the delivery 
time but Mr B says the first attempt was made on a date when hed made clear he wasnt 
available, so this didnt resolve the problem. 
Mr B is unhappy at the delay at receiving his new card, not least as hed told Lloyds about 
his ongoing health conditions. He says he relied on that credit card for his day to day 
purchases so having to do without it for several weeks caused him a lot of inconvenience. In 
addition, he hadnt been able to access the bonus points of £62 hed accrued on his previous 
card.
Mr B feels that the time taken to provide him with his new card was unreasonable. And he 
says he had to chase Lloyds for information when it should have been contacting him. Mr Bs 
also unhappy that the courier company used by Lloyds was rude and unhelpful for which he 
considers Lloyds is ultimately responsible. Mr Bs acknowledged the compensation already 
paid by Lloyds but doesnt feel its enough to reflect the mistakes it made or the impact on 
him. 
Lloyds agreed thered been some mistakes in arranging for Mr Bs new card and this had 
caused the delay. However, it had written to Mr B on 13 September explaining that it could 
take up to 2 weeks for the new card to be delivered. And in the meantime, his old card would 
have been valid up until the end of August 2019. While Lloyds didnt have a record of when 
Mr B had told them about his health issues, it accepted what he said about this but said it 
had tried to help him by arranging for the new card to be sent out by courier, rather than by 
post. It noted that thered been problems with this delivery but it didnt agree it was 
responsible for this. Lloyds noted that it had already paid Mr B £427 compensation for what 
had happened and felt this was reasonable.
Our investigator felt Lloyds had dealt with the complaint fairly. She said the decision to 
change the product was a commercial decision that Lloyds was entitled to make so the 
question was how it had dealt with the change. Shed seen that Lloyds had explained this 
change, and the timescale for the new card, in its letter of 13 September. 
Shed also taken into account what Mr B had said about his health and why he felt Lloyds 
could have done more to assist him. But she felt Lloyds had taken this into account both in 
arranging to send out his new card by courier and when it had paid the credit balance on the 
old card into his current account. She didnt feel there was much more it could have done at 
that point.
With regard to compensation, our investigator noted that Lloyds had already paid Mr B £62 
to cover the points on his old card he hadnt been able to access, £25 for expenses, £90 to 
cover the available balance on the old card plus £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by what had happened. This amounted to £427 which she considered was 
reasonable and in line with what wed recommend for the poor service hed received. For 
that reason, she wouldnt be asking Lloyds to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
Mr B remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  He 
said in summary that:
The £62 and £90 were in effect his own money so shouldnt be counted as 
compensation
Hed been wrongly advised to say his card had been lost when he first called in and 
felt this raised a question of integrity that hadnt been taken into account 
Lloyds had engaged the courier company and he felt it was ultimately responsible for 
its poor service
His new card hadnt arrived until October so hed been without funds for several 
weeks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I should explain that where theres no clear information on any point, or the information 
requested is incomplete or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the balance of 
probabilities or in other words whats more likely than not to have happened taking into 
account the circumstances of the case.
Mr B has explained very clearly the circumstances surrounding the issue of his new credit 
card and why he feels the service he received was so poor. And to a large degree Lloyds 
has accepted those concerns and agreed that there was delay in sending out the new card 
which impacted on Mr B. The question is whether the steps Lloyds has taken to put matters 
right are sufficient or whether it now needs to do something more.
Mr Bs old credit card expired at the end of August 2019. As is usual in these circumstances 
he expected a new card to be sent out a week or so before the old one expired and when it 
didnt arrive, he became concerned. I can understand that and I think its unfortunate that Lloyds didnt contact Mr B sooner to let him know that it was planning to move his account to 
a different card and that this could take a little longer than usual. The letter telling Mr B about 
this wasnt sent until 13 September by which time Mr Bs old card had expired and he was 
feeling increasingly concerned at not having a valid credit card to use.
Its also unfortunate that when he first contacted the bank in August he was told the quickest 
way to get a new card was to say his old one had been lost. I havent been able to listen to 
this call but, on balance, I find what Mr B has said about this persuasive. As hes said, 
however, this didnt help his situation because the replacement cards had the same expiry 
date as the original one. 
Mr B says this shows a lack of integrity. But while Id agree it suggests the call handler 
hadnt fully understood the problem, I havent seen anything to show that it was anything 
than a genuine, if mistaken, attempt to help Mr B by getting a new card sent out as quickly 
as possible. And as Mr Bs card, or replacement, could still have been used up until the end 
of August I dont consider that he was in a worse position than he had been before. 
Having said that Im satisfied there was a delay in letting Mr B know about the new card hed 
be receiving and in arranging for this to be sent to him. Mr Bs explained that he relied on 
this card for his household expenditure so not having access to it was, clearly, difficult for 
him.
Ive taken that into account. But Ive also taken into account the steps Lloyds took to try to 
minimise this impact. Ive seen it made a payment of £90 into his current account to reflect 
the current credit balance on his card. As Mr B didnt have to repay this, I think its fair to 
include this in the compensation. Lloyds also arranged for his new card to be sent out by 
courier to try and speed up the delivery. I should add that while I note Mr B feels he got a 
very poor service from the courier company, I cant reasonably agree Lloyds is responsible 
for that.
Lloyds has made three compensation payments totalling £250 to Mr B for his distress and 
inconvenience, together with £25 to cover the cost of his calls to the bank. Its also paid him 
£62 to cover the bonus points hed accrued on his old card. Leaving aside the £62 which 
was a straightforward reimbursement of Mr Bs loyalty points, that comes to £365.
I realise Mr B doesnt feel this is enough for all the issues hes raised but I think it is 
reasonable and takes into account the impact on Mr B and the time that it lasted. I 
appreciate how inconvenient it was for Mr B not to have a credit card for several but I note 
he had access to other funds during this time so I think the impact was less severe than it 
might have been. In the circumstances I consider that the compensation paid to date fairly is 
reasonable and reflects the poor service he received. For that reason, I wont be asking 
Lloyds to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint as I consider that the compensation 
already paid by Lloyds Bank PLC is sufficient for the impact of the its poor service on Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman