DRN-3314472
The complaint
Mr D on behalf of the estate of Mr D complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with 
him and his personal data.
What happened
Mr D says he told Barclays that his father had passed away and that there were two credit 
card accounts to settle. He says Barclays sold the debts to a third-party company I will call 
P without his permission and that company contacted him. Mr D says Barclays should not 
have done so and have breached the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). He 
would like £3,000 compensation for what took place and would like Barclays to change the 
way in which it deals with this type of situation. Mr D is also unhappy at Ps conduct and 
says he cancelled the two settlement cheques to Barclays as they had not been cashed but 
says the debts have now been settled.
Barclays says it presented the two cheques, but they were returned unpaid. It says its policy 
on a customers bereavement is to pass any debt to P and says the debts were not sold. 
Barclays says it passed on Mr Ds contact details so that P could correspond with him as he 
was acting on behalf of the estate.
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator explained to Mr D that we are not Barclays regulator and so cant direct it to 
change its business practice about this type of issue. And also explained that we cant order 
compensation to a third party such as Mr D when the complainant here is the estate of Mr D 
and not Mr D. The investigator didnt think the debt had been sold and didnt think Barclays 
had made a mistake.
Mr D doesnt accept that view and says Barclays should provide evidence it didnt sell the 
debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I make 
clear to Mr D, as the investigator has already, that we are not Barclays regulator and so we 
cant order it or direct it to change its policy about passing debts to a third-party company as 
here. I can also see from the account terms and conditions that Barclays makes clear in 
them that it may transfer a credit card agreement to a third party with or without notice. So, I 
dont think Barclays has made a mistake or acted unfairly by passing the debts to P and I 
make clear that Im satisfied that Barclays has told us it didnt sell the debt to it. In those 
circumstances I dont think Barclays can provide further evidence about the debt transfer or 
ought to prove it didnt sell the debt as Mr D suggests.
Im satisfied that the main part of this complaint is about Barclays passing Mr Ds 
correspondence information to P. And Im also satisfied that is a complaint by Mr D in his 
personal capacity and not a complaint on behalf of the estate of Mr D. It follows that I cant 
fairly consider that part of the complaint or order compensation be paid to Mr D as he would 
like.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays was entitled to pass the debts of the estate of Mr D to P in 
line with account terms and conditions and have not seen any evidence the debts were sold. 
I hope Mr D appreciates what our role is in this complaint and why we cant consider any 
personal impact complaints by Mr D himself. Im satisfied that the estate itself has not been 
affected in any event. I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly or made a mistake and can 
see that Mr D is pursuing any personal data breach with a separate organisation. I find this 
now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman