DRN-2902505
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as J complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs decision to 
restrict its business account and recall funds in its account.
Mr D, Js director, brings the complaint on Js behalf.
What happened
In June 2020, J applied for a loan with Barclays under the Bounce Back Loan (BBL) 
Scheme. The loan was approved, and J received £50,000 of loan funds into its account.
In August 2020, Barclays placed a block on Js account to carry out a review. Mr D, on 
behalf of J, complained that Barclays had repeatedly misinformed him about how long the 
review would take. Mr D said the block had caused J financial difficulties due to not being 
able to access the account. 
Barclays reviewed what had happened but said that it was following regulatory procedures in 
accordance with the terms and conditions on the account. Not content with this response, 
Mr D brought Js complaint to our service.
On 1 December 2020, when Barclays completed their review, J regained access to its 
account. However, Barclays had clawed back around £36,000 from the loan which had been 
credited under the BBL Scheme. 
In May 2021, Barclays issued a formal demand for repayment of the remaining funds from 
the loan which had already been spent. The formal demand letter explained that Barclays 
didnt think J was eligible for the BBL Scheme loan when it first applied  which is why 
Barclays had recalled the £36,000 from the account following their review.
Our investigator who reviewed the complaint didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. 
He thought Barclays were entitled to review the account in line with their terms and 
conditions and didnt think theyd caused any unnecessary delays.
Mr D didnt agree. Mr D, on Js behalf said that, while he understands Barclays may be able 
to freeze accounts, their communication about it wasnt acceptable. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything differently. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr D, but Ive explained my reasons below.
Barclays are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays were acting in line 
with these obligations when reviewing and blocking Js account.
I recognise how frustrating it must have been for J to be unable to use its account. And I 
appreciate this would have put it in a financially challenging position because it didnt have 
access to its funds. But a bank cant always guarantee that funds in an account will be 
readily available as they have broader regulatory obligations with which they have to comply. 
Barclays havent told J why its account was blocked or reviewed. But Barclays arent obliged 
to share the reasons with J. This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial 
discretion when reviewing and subsequently blocking accounts, but Id like to reassure J 
that, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Barclays actions were appropriate in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Under the BBL agreement, Barclays have the right to default the loan in a few specific 
circumstances  and Im satisfied that their actions in this case were fair. I appreciate it 
would have been inconvenient for J to have had a loan approved, and funds released into its 
account, to then find its account had been restricted, and, a few months later, the remaining 
loan money recalled. Ive reviewed Barclays decision to recall the loan and Im satisfied it 
was made in line with the banks policy. I appreciate J believes it was eligible for the loan  
which is why it applied in the first place  but the decision to lend rested with Barclays. 
Barclays initially agreed to that request but, after their review, found that J wasnt eligible. 
While I appreciate the inconvenience to J, that in itself doesnt mean Barclays decision to 
recall the loan was unfair or incorrect. And I think its reasonable that Barclays took the 
action they did after reviewing Js account.
Im satisfied that Barclays didnt do anything wrong in using the funds J held in its current 
account to settle the debt owed on its BBL. Im aware Barclays have requested the 
remaining loan funds which J had already spent to be repaid, and I think their request is 
reasonable. Given Barclays decision that J wasnt eligible for the loan, which I believe was 
reasonable in the circumstances, it therefore follows that J shouldnt have been granted the 
loan funds. So Im satisfied Barclays are entitled to ask J to repay it.
I dont doubt the length of the delay would have made things more difficult for J, especially 
as it would have found it difficult to continue trading. I also appreciate J has said they can 
prove the money was used for business purposes. But I dont think that makes an overall 
difference. I say that because Barclays have found J wasnt eligible to receive the loan  so 
regardless of what the money was spent on, it shouldnt ever have been given to J. 
Therefore, I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this part.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays were entitled to take the actions they did, so Im not going to 
ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman