DRN-1044071
The complaint
Mr J says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In August 1999 Mr J applied for a credit card. At the same time, PPI was added to his new 
account. The cost of the PPI was charged to the account - so he'd repay this extra cost with 
interest in line with the card's terms and conditions. Mr J thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr J doesn't 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case.
I've decided the PPI wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mr J chose to buy the PPI. Mr J says he wasn't aware PPI had 
been added to his account. He says Barclays just added it without any discussion. So I've 
thought about what Mr J has said alongside the other information I have about the sale.
Barclays has sent us a copy of the application form for the credit card. Barclays says the 
application was completed during a meeting in a branch. I see that there was a separate 
section of the application form with the heading "Payment Protection Plan". To apply for 
insurance, Mr J needed to tick a box labelled "Yes, I want my Barclaycard accoutn(s) to be 
covered against unemployment, accident, sickness and death". This box is ticked. There's a 
box below this labelled "No, I do not require protection and understand that it is still my 
responsibility to repay the outstanding balance if I am unable to work or I die". This box is 
not ticked. The rest of the form has been completed with Mr J's details - and I see he 
declines a further product, Barclaycard Card Protection. So while I recognise that Mr J 
doesn't remember PPI being added to his account, I think it's more likely that Mr J knew he 
had a choice and chose to buy it.
Barclays recommended the product to Mr J, so it had to make sure the policy was right for 
him. I think it was. Mr J wasn't affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover - and 
based on what I've seen of his circumstances I think the policy would have been useful if 
something had gone wrong. I acknowledge that Mr J would have received some sick pay 
from his employer if he'd been off work sick  but this policy would have repaid a tenth of his 
credit card balance each month for up to a year if he'd been off work sick, which is longer 
than Mr J says he'd get his full salary for. The policy would also cover him for up to a year if 
he was made redundant.It's possible the information Barclays gave Mr J about the policy wasn't as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to buy the policy, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And 
it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I don't think better information about the PPI would have put if off taking 
out the cover.
I've considered the other points Mr J has raised, but these don't change my conclusion.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman