DRN-3742368
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC declined his application for a consolidation loan.
What happened
Mr R received a letter from HSBC which said his credit card was in persistent debt. The 
letter asked Mr R to contact HSBC within 60 days and gave him two options. The first option 
was to pay off the credit card with a loan and retain the credit card with a credit limit of £500. 
The second option was to return the credit card and pay off the balance by instalments.
Mr R chose the first option and applied for a loan, but his application was declined.
Mr R complained to HSBC. In response, HSBC said that Mr Rs application for a 
consolidation loan had been declined by the system. It said it was unable to disclose its 
criteria for the decline. It apologised for any inconvenience caused and credited £50 to Mr 
Rs account.
Mr R was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the persistent debt letter sent to Mr 
R made it clear that any application for a loan would be subject to status. The investigator 
said that this service wouldnt interfere with a commercial lending decision made by a 
business.
Mr R didnt agree. He said HSBC was acting unreasonably and he wanted to know the 
reason why his application for a consolidation loan had been declined.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules relating to persistent debt on credit cards were brough about following the FCAs 
Credit Card Market Study published in 2016. The outcome of the study brought about 
changed in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) in early 2018. Under the new rules, 
businesses are required to take a series of escalating steps to help customers break the 
cycle of persistent debt and ensure customer who cant afford to repay more quickly are 
given help.
HSBC wrote to Mr R as part of its obligation under CONC. Ive looked at the letter sent to Mr 
R in April 2022. The contents meet the relevant requirements for persistent debt. The letter 
offered Mr R two options, either to apply for a loan, which would be applied to the account 
balance and allow Mr R to retain the card with a £500 credit limit, or return the card and 
agree to a repayment plan to clear the balance over 3 or 4 years.
I understand that Mr R preferred the first option but that his application was declined.
The letter dated April 2022 states that loans are subject to status. This means that there was 
no guarantee that Mr Rs loan application would be successful. 
I understand that Mr R feels strongly about this and wants to know the reason why his loan 
application was declined.
HSBC assess loan applications using its own lending criteria. These criteria take into 
account the information provided on the loan application, what HSBC knew about Mr R as a 
customer and information obtained from credit reference agencies.
HSBC has said that Mr Rs application was declined because he didnt meet the lending 
criteria.
Im unable to look behind HSBCs lending decision. Lending criteria and lending decisions 
are things that only the business can set and make. In this case, HSBC applied its lending 
criteria and made the decision to decline the application. Im unable to say that HSBC has 
made an error or treated Mr R unfairly here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman