DRN-4294878
The complaint
Mr K complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited applied an unfair end date to his claim 
and refused to consider an earlier period of absence. 
What happened
Mr K worked in a technical role, mostly from home. And he was a beneficiary of his 
employers income protection policy, underwritten by Aviva. The policy was designed to pay 
a benefit in the event of incapacity, after a 26 week deferred period. 
The policy cover is based on Mr Ks own occupation and defines incapacity as follows:
The members inability to perform on a full and part time basis the duties of his or 
her job role as a result of their illness or injury..
Mr K became absent from work due to illness in May 2019, and a claim was made against 
the policy in July 2019.
Aviva was presented with medical reports from the doctors who had conducted and 
assessed Mr Ks scans. And based on this, said it thought Mr K met the policy terms of 
incapacity during the deferred period, so benefit payments would be paid from the end of 
that period. However, Aviva said the payments would be made up until 30 April 2020 only. 
Mr K became absent from work in May 2019 due to symptoms including headaches, 
dizziness, tinnitus and other sensory symptoms. He underwent investigations with a 
specialist and following a brain scan, a lesion was found which his treating doctor - Dr H - 
thought was a low grade glioma. In August 2019, Dr H recommended another scan to be 
done in a further six months. 
Aviva referred the medical evidence to its Chief Medical Officer (CMO) for an opinion. They 
said Mr K would be fit to return to work around October 2019. And noted Mr Ks anxiety 
about the finding on his scan was likely causing more symptoms than the issue itself. 
Following this, Aviva arranged an Independent Medical Exam (IME) with Dr B  an 
occupational health consultant - to find out more about Mr Ks condition. Dr B was provided 
with the medical evidence and met with Mr K.  
The outcome of Dr Bs report was that Mr K was medically fit to return to work. And 
recommended a gradual return starting at 50% of his hours for four weeks. Dr B noted Mr K 
was still experiencing some symptoms of discomfort when concentrating and recommended 
taking brief breaks. They said I expect that he would quickly learn to tolerate this discomfort 
if he returned to work regularly and commented on the possibility of medication for this if 
needed. 
Dr B also noted Mr Ks tinnitus had reduced and said this and his neck pain symptoms were 
not a current barrier to work. And they said his dizziness symptoms had resolved. The IME 
report was issued in early December 2019 and stated Mr K was fit to return to work at that 
time, although Dr B said Mr K had wanted to wait until his next scan in January 2020. 
In February 2020, an occupational health report was arranged by Mr Ks employer. The 
outcome of this report was that Mr K was anticipated to be fit to return to work within three 
months, on a phased return basis. One of the examples being a return on 50% of his hours 
for two weeks. 
Aviva accepted the claim and began making payments with effect from 8 November 2019, 
after the deferred period had ended. And said these would end on 30 April 2020 as it said it 
thought the evidence showed Mr K would be able to return to work after that time.
Mr K complained to Aviva. In summary, Aviva said it wasnt able to pay the claim from any 
date earlier than November 2019, as the deferred period had not started until May 2019. It 
said any absences prior to May 2019 were not covered, as the policy was not in place before 
that time. 
Aviva said it didnt agree to reinstate the claim beyond the end of April 2020, because it 
thought the medical evidence hadnt supported that Mr K was totally unable to work in his 
insured occupation, beyond this time, which was when it had ceased benefit payments. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr K brought his complaint to this service. An investigator here 
looked into what had happened and said they didnt think Aviva had assessed the claim 
unfairly. 
Aviva accepted the investigators view. However, Mr K disagreed and asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. So, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
Mr K provided this service with additional medical evidence including letters from his treating 
specialists. An investigator sent this to Aviva and asked it for its comments. Aviva said itd 
reviewed the evidence and this didnt change its decision. It said the letters didnt provide 
any information which wasnt already available in the medical reports. And it said it couldnt 
consider evidence related to Mr Ks more recent condition and symptoms, as this didnt 
relate to the claim period. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say insurers have a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr K has provided detailed commentary and evidence in support of his case. If I havent 
commented on a particular point in my decision, this doesnt mean I havent considered it. 
Im not required to comment on each and every point, but instead Im concentrating on the 
main issues in the complaint. No discourtesy is intended by this; it simply reflects the 
informal nature of the ombudsman service and my role in it.
Ive reviewed all of the medical evidence supplied in relation to this complaint. Having done 
so, I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly in its assessment of Mr Ks claim. And Ill explain 
why. 
Mr K disputes the claim end date, so Ive considered Avivas reasons for ending the 
benefit payments when it did. Aviva said it would pay the claim up until the end of 
April 2020. This means Aviva accepted Mr K met the policy definition of incapacity up until that time. So, in other words, that he was unable to perform the duties of his job 
role as a result of his illness. 
In August 2019, Mr Ks scans showed what the doctor referred to as a possible low 
grade glioma and recommended a further scan in six months. There was no further 
information in this report about Mr Ks ability to work. So Aviva referred the report to 
its CMO for an opinion, and then appointed an IME. I think this was reasonable and 
is what I would expect an insurer to do in these circumstances. 
Both the IME arranged by Aviva and the Employers Occupational Health reports 
concluded Mr K was able to begin a phased return to work and I note Mr K was able 
to work remotely from his home. Dr B thought the return could begin sooner, 
however, both reports suggested similar phased returns starting at 50% of Mr Ks 
hours. Dr B thought Mr K was fit to return to work in December 2020, and the 
occupational health report said within the coming three months of the assessment 
in early February 2020.  So, I think it was reasonable that Aviva concluded Mr K 
would no longer meet the policy terms of incapacity after the end of April 2020. And I 
think this allowed sufficient time for Mr K to try out a gradual return to work as 
recommended in the reports.  
Had Mr K attempted to return to work and been unsuccessful, I would have expected 
Aviva to investigate this further through additional medical evidence. However I note 
Mr K did not start a phased return as recommended in the reports. 
Mr K has since provided further medical evidence and letters from his treating 
doctors including Dr H and Dr T, and these have been shared with Aviva. However, 
Aviva has said these do not change its position on the claim. And I think thats fair, as 
the content of these letters is mostly a summary of the medical evidence which was 
already available, and Ive not found that they contain evidence of Mr Ks inability to 
undertake his job role, which contradicts that of the reports in December 2019 and 
February 2020. 
Ive been unable to consider more recent medical evidence Mr K has provided about 
his condition, as this relates to the time after the claim period and was not available 
at the time Aviva made its assessment. 
Ive also noted Mr Ks partners comments on the IME report. Mr K commented on 
the report at the time of issue in 2020, and Ive noted Dr B reviewed these comments 
and responded to say that these did not alter their opinion. And they commented that 
although Mr K was still experiencing neck pain, he had previously coped with this for 
many years while remaining in work.
Mr Ks partner has commented on Mr Ks cycling detailed in the report and has said 
this was a reference to the past and Mr K was unable to cycle regularly at the time of 
the consultation. However, this was not raised within Mr Ks comments when the 
report was originally issued in 2020, so this wasnt something Dr B was able to 
consider at the time. And I would have expected Mr K would have raised this with his 
other contemporaneous comments on the report, had it been inaccurate. 
Ive noted the comments about the discrepancy with regards to medication, but I 
dont think this was significant enough to have made a difference to Dr Bs overall 
opinion on Mr Ks ability to return to work. So, Ive not been persuaded that it was 
unfair for Aviva to rely on the report at the time it made its claim decision.Whilst I dont dispute Mr K was still experiencing symptoms such as discomfort with 
his head and neck, the medical evidence shows these were not of a severity which 
would have prevented him from beginning a return to work at reduced hours. And so 
Im persuaded Mr K no longer met the policy definition of incapacity by the end of 
April 2020, and as such, I think it was reasonable that Aviva said it would not pay 
benefits beyond that time.
Linked absences prior to May 2019 and the claim payment date
Whilst there is cover under the policy for linked claims and linked periods of absence, Im 
satisfied Aviva was not on risk in relation to any claims prior to when the policy started. The 
policy schedule shows the cover underwritten by Aviva started on 1 May 2019. And there is 
no reference within the terms to Aviva being required to honour any claims relating to events 
prior to that date.
Its my understanding Mr Ks employer had an earlier income protection policy in place with a 
different insurer, prior to the Aviva policy. So, it would seem a different insurer was on risk at 
the time of Mr Ks earlier sickness absences. So, any claims related to that period would 
have needed to be directed to the relevant insurer. 
The claim payment start date 
The deferred period for the policy is 26 weeks. This means that policy benefit payments will 
not be paid until 26 weeks have passed from the date of first absence. Mr Ks absence 
started in May 2019, and Aviva started the payments 26 weeks later in November 2019, 
which is in line with the policy terms. So Im satisfied Aviva calculated the benefit start date 
correctly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman