DRN-3045525
The complaint
This complaint is about an application Mrs L made for a further advance on her 
Halifax-branded mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc, to repay a debt owed to another 
creditor. Shes unhappy that Halifax turned her down; she says her financial situation would 
have been much better, and by refusing her, Halifax hasnt treated her fairly.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the current circumstances, rounding the 
figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mrs Ls had the mortgage since 2004; in 2019, she missed two monthly payments following 
a family bereavement. She also experienced a short-term interruption to her income whilst 
agreeing a change in her employment situation. The arrears were brought up to date in 
2020, and subsequently, Mrs L applied to Halifax for a further advance of £22,000. 
The primary purpose of the additional borrowing was to repay a second charge debt of 
around £18,000 owed to another creditor. The new borrowing with Halifax, if agreed, would 
save Mrs L around £200 a month, thus reducing the pressure on her finances. Halifax turned 
the application down; a decision Mrs L believes was unfair to her and didnt take proper 
account of her circumstances.
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. Ms H would like her complaint 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by making one important clarification, and its concerning how and when Mrs L 
first approached Halifax about the arrears. Mrs L appears to have inferred that Halifax 
reported the mortgage arrears on her credit file because she didnt approach it about them 
immediately. 
Thats not the case; credit file reporting isnt intended to be punitive. Lenders are required to 
report factually accurate information on credit files; they dont report value judgement or 
apply context. Arrears are reported on credit files simply because, and for as long as, they 
exist. Once arrears have been repaid, the fact that they happened remain on a persons 
credit file history for six years.
Ive made this observation because I can see how much importance Mrs L attached to an 
apparent anomaly in the investigators view of the complaint about when she first contacted 
Halifax about the arrears. Mrs L has also suggested Halifax hasnt taken account of some 
health issues she has. These points clearly matter greatly to Mrs L, and thats her 
prerogative, but they wont, in my view, have affected the lending decision that is at the heart 
of this complaint. I address that now.
As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money; but a lender must treat customers 
fairly. In the context of an application for lending, that means assessing it fairly in 
accordance with the banks lending criteria. Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and 
not generally made public.
Also, generally speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders 
commercial judgement on how much it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from that 
position here. My role is to judge whether Halifax applied its lending criteria to Mrs Ls 
application fairly when reaching its judgement, not to substitute my judgement in place of 
Halifaxs. 
Having looked at all the available evidence, Im satisfied Halifaxs assessment of Mrs Ls 
application was a fair reflection of its lending criteria. Decisions like this are rarely the result 
of just one adverse factor on its own; theyre more likely to flow from the combined effect of 
several. 
Thats the case here; the recent arrears, the fact that Mrs Ls total borrowing would be going 
up, and the increase in her loan to value ratio. Any of those, on their own, might or might not 
result in an application being turned down; taking them together, the cumulative effect 
makes rejection a very likely outcome, notwithstanding the improvement in monthly cashflow 
that might have resulted if the further advance had gone ahead. 
All thing considered, there are no grounds for me to second-guess or otherwise interfere with 
the decision Halifax made. I realise Mrs L thinks differently, but whilst Halifaxs refusal to 
lend was unwelcome to her, it wasnt unfair, and thats the test I have to apply. 
Lastly, Halifax has said that with the passage of time, a new application might receive more 
favourable treatment; its also said that Mrs L may be eligible for a lower rate than shes 
paying currently. That seems an eminently reasonable position, and Ill leave it to Mrs L to 
decide if she wants to take Halifax up on either suggestion (or both). What I will make clear 
is that merely inviting Mrs L to apply afresh doesnt commit Halifax to saying yes. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman