DRN-3872511
The complaint
Ms W has complained Santander UK plc gave her wrong information about withdrawing 
money from her fixed rate ISA. Shed relied upon this information and had lost out on the 
opportunity of earning a higher interest rate on her savings.
What happened
Ms W opened a one-year fixed rate ISA with Santander on 14 September 2022 and 
deposited more than £75,000. The withdrawal terms confirmed if the account was closed 
early, a charge equivalent to 120 days interest would be applied.
Ms W queried this term when she was on a webchat with Santander. It was confirmed to her 
whatever is in the ISA wont be touched. Ms W arranged to transfer her money to an 
account with a higher rate of interest. Before doing this Santander confirmed to her she 
would be charged for doing so in accordance with the terms and conditions.
Ms W felt Santander should be required to do what was confirmed to her in the webchat. 
Santander felt theyd not done anything wrong, so Ms W brought a complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator also felt that Santander didnt need to do anything further. Ms W had 
continued to keep her money in her Santander ISA account so had not lost out.
Ms W disputed the idea shed not lost out and provided calculations of what her money 
would have earned if she could have put it in a higher interest rate earning account. She also 
asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ms W was aware what the terms and condition of her ISA stated about a charge equivalent 
to 120 days interest if she closed her account before the end of the fixed rate period. Thats 
why she asked the questions she did during the webchat to understand how this charge was 
applied. She believed she was told her capital wouldnt be impacted.
I dont dispute Ms W was given incorrect information. However before she made any 
withdrawal, Santander clarified what charge would be levied so Ms W was able to re-
consider her plans.
I know Ms W believes she should be able to rely on the incorrect information she was given 
as shes now lost out on the opportunity of earning higher interest. However I dont agree. 
We generally ask banks to put customers back in the position they had been. In her case, 
Ms W did get given the correct information before withdrawing her money so hasnt lost out. 
Her money is in an account with the terms and conditions she agreed to.
I wont be asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Ws complaint against 
Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman