DRN-3567310
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about delays when they applied to port the mortgage they held with 
The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Platform).
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took a mortgage with Platform in 2019. The mortgage interest rate was fixed 
for three years. There was an early repayment charge (ERC) if they repaid it within the fixed 
rate period. The mortgage was portable which meant it could be transferred to a new 
property on application, subject to Platforms lending criteria at the time of switching. 
In June 2020 Mr and Mrs M contacted Platform as they were looking to move house. They 
were told that it would take six to eight weeks for a mortgage offer to be issued once 
Mr and Mrs M had applied to port their mortgage. A mortgage advice call was conducted on 
23 September 2020 and Platform confirmed in writing that it thought the additional amount 
Mr and Mrs M wanted to borrow would be affordable to them, subject to proof of income and 
credit checks. At this point Mr and Mrs M hadnt had an offer accepted on a new property. 
Mr and Mrs M called Platform on 14 October 2020 to explain that they had an offer accepted 
on a property. By this time, Platforms timescales had increased to between eight and ten 
weeks from application to a mortgage offer. Platform advised they would receive a call back 
from the mortgage advice team, but it wasnt able to confirm an exact time or date.
 
Mr M called back on 16 October 2020 saying that hed not received a call. Again, Platform 
was unable to confirm when he would receive a call back but was told it should be by 
21 October 2020. It told Mr M that he should call back if he hadnt heard anything by this 
date. Platform didnt call Mr and Mrs M back, and they cancelled their application on 12 
November 2020. 
Mr and Mrs M applied to another lender and redeemed their Platform mortgage on 
30 November 2020. They were charged the ERC. They complained to Platform. 
Platform responded to the complaint explaining that its timescales were longer than theyd 
like because of the covid-19 pandemic. They offered £25 compensation for the poor 
customer service in not returning Mr and Mrs Ms calls. 
Mr and Mrs M referred the complaint to our Service and one of our Investigators looked into 
it. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He noted that Mr M had said hed call back 
if he hadnt received a call by 21 October but didnt. He was satisfied that Platform had 
always explained its timescales to Mr and Mrs M and managed their expectations. Overall, 
our Investigator was satisfied that Platform was entitled to charge the ERC.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me 
to decide. I provided my initial thoughts to Platform and Mr and Mrs M explaining why I 
thought the complaint should be upheld. Platform hasnt responded. Mr and Mrs M accepted 
this. So, Ive decided to proceed with a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of what happened arent disputed here. Mr and Mrs M weren't ready to proceed 
with their mortgage porting application until 14 October 2020. And they were aware of the 
timescales involved. They contacted Platform on this date asking to proceed. They were told 
they would receive a call back to complete the application. Mr and Mrs M contacted Platform 
two days later and were again told that they would receive a call back, but if they didn't, they 
should get in touch again after 21 October 2020. Mr and Mrs M didn't get in touch with 
Platform again until 11 November 2020 by which time they'd decided to go to another lender.
Whilst I accept that it was Mr and Mrs M's decision to move to another lender, I believe this 
was heavily influenced by Platform's failure to contact them. I don't think it was fair for 
Platform to ask them to call back if they hadn't heard anything by a certain date. They had 
already called twice and had been told twice they would receive a call back. They should've 
been able to expect a call back within a reasonable time frame. However, no call was 
received at all. I say this because until theyd received that call, Mr and Mrs Ms application 
hadnt formally started, they knew its timescales were increasing from earlier contacts, and it 
was reasonable for them to decide that if they couldnt be certain Platform could deal with 
their application in good time, they would need to look elsewhere while there was still time 
for another lender to consider it.
Had a call been received in a timely manner, I think it's more likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs M would've chosen to stay with Platform as their lender and ported their existing 
mortgage, and therefore avoided paying the ERC. Ill explain why I say this.
Mr and Mrs M have provided a summary of their house purchase and the situation with their 
buyers and sellers. This has given me a better understanding of their situation and the 
timescales involved. Whilst Mr and Mrs M did complete on 30 November on their new 
property, they've told us there was no requirement for them to do so - they did so because 
they were able to get an offer and the chain was ready. They've explained that their buyers 
were flexible, but they also had other arrangements for accommodation which they could've 
moved into temporarily. Mr and Mrs M also told us that the property they purchased was 
being sold by the brother and sister of an elderly gentleman and they were selling it on his 
behalf. He had already vacated the property and was in no rush for the funds. Considering 
all of this, it seems likely to me that there was flexibility in the completion date. 
Based on this, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs M say they could've comfortably pushed the 
completion date back to mid-December 2020, and possibly longer. I'm aware Platforms 
expected turn around times were around eight to ten weeks from application to offer at the 
time Mr and Mrs M were ready to apply. This is at the very end of what I'd call a reasonable 
turn around time for an application to port a mortgage to receive an offer. I don't think any 
longer than this is reasonable in the majority of cases. It's almost removing the option to port 
given that it can't be turned around within a reasonable time scale. If a mortgage has a 
portable feature, then a lender should be able to facilitate this (including taking an application 
and carrying out its usual checks) within a reasonable timescale.
I'm also aware that this timescale starts once the application is processed. I don't consider 
this reasonable if a consumer is having to wait for calls back, with no given date of when this 
may be (in this case, it turned out that no call was received). Had the application been 
started when Mr and Mrs M first called (or within a reasonable time frame soon after) then 
they would've been able to complete in time for mid-December. And as I've explained above, 
I think it's likely they could've delayed until this stage. However, given that they were simply getting nowhere with getting a call back from Platform, I don't think it was unreasonable for 
them to approach another lender for the mortgage. As the process hadnt even started by 
mid-November, Mr and Mrs M were left with little choice but to look for another lender that 
could act more quickly.
Ive noted Platforms argument that these waiting times were caused by the pandemic. 
However, I'm aware that it also offered much quicker timescales for other types of mortgage 
applications depending on how it was submitted. Its a matter for Platform to decide which 
area of its business it wants to prioritise within overall resource limitations. But its a matter 
for me to consider whether an individual customer was treated fairly  and in this case, 
because Platform wasnt able to consider their application within a reasonable time, I dont 
think Mr and Mrs M were treated fairly.
Because of this, I think that it wasnt fair for Platform to charge the ERC. And Im going to tell 
it to refund this.
Ive thought about whether further compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by this to Mr and Mrs M is warranted. However, I also note that Mr and Mrs Ms new 
mortgage had a rate of 1.89% compared to their Platform rate of 2.04%. And it finished a few 
months after the Platform rate wouldve done. Because of this, they have benefitted from this 
lower rate, so Im not going to award any further compensation.
Putting things right
Platform should refund the ERC it applied to Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage balance when they 
redeemed it. It should add 8% simple interest per annum from the day it was charged until 
the day it makes payment. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct The Co-operative Bank Plc to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman