DRN-3223617
The complaint
Mrs M complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) will not 
allow her to cash in her annuity with it.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in a provisional 
decision. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
Mrs M had a Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVC) plan through an employer. In 2014 Mrs M 
enquired about taking her benefits. The employer scheme contacted Prudential, who administered 
the employers AVCs, to ask it to send Mrs M quotations to take her benefits on the basis of tax-
free cash of approximately £5,400 and the remaining fund of approximately
£2,500 to be paid as an annuity.
Following her acceptance of the quotation, Mrs M took out an annuity with Prudential which paid 
her £55.56 a year payable monthly in advance, increasing at 3% per annum and guaranteed for 
five years.
More recently, Mrs M approached Prudential after shed spoken to her financial adviser whod told 
her shed be able to cash-in the annuity. Prudential said legislation did allow annuities valued under 
£10,000 to be cashed in but this was at providers discretion and it had chosen not to offer this. Mrs 
M was unhappy with this as shes explained the £4 a month she receives is of no benefit to her and 
it must cost more for Prudential to administer the annuity. She says it would be better for all parties 
for a lump sum to be paid as the £4 a month she receives doesnt even buy her a bus ticket.
Before Mrs M took out her annuity in 2014, she says she asked if she could take all of her 
benefits as a lump sum but says she was told this wasnt possible. Prudential says that this 
wouldve been the decision of the trustees of the employer scheme (or the rules of the scheme) 
rather than Prudential.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has told us that when she came to take out her annuity she was told she couldnt have a 
lump sum by Prudential. Prudential says this was a decision made by the employer scheme 
trustees and it just offered Mrs M what it was told.
I can see that Prudential did include on its original quote the option to take all her benefits as a 
lump sum (caveated by the fact shed need to approach the scheme about this). But only if these 
benefits plus other provisions were less than £30,000 as per the triviality rules at the time. 
However, it didnt also include the option to take her benefits under the small pots legislation which 
at the time was based on single funds under £10,000. But, if Mrs M was able to take this option and 
chose to do so, it seems she wouldve lost her protected tax-free cash and instead only received 
25% tax-free. In reality it looks like Mrs M received approximately 68% of the fund as tax-free cash. 
So the option to take her benefits as a lump sum (if available) might not have been that attractive 
after all due to the additional taxation it seems wouldve occurred.
As this point doesnt form part of the complaint put to Prudential, it isnt something I can 
consider in this decision. If Mrs M wishes to complain about this, shell need to approach 
Prudential first.
This complaint is about whether Mrs M should be able to cash in her annuity and so Ive 
considered whether Prudential has been unfair and unreasonable in not offering this.
Relevant considerations
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Ill firstly set out what I think are the relevant considerations here:
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12)
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that 
scheme if
(a)the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition is 
met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and make 
payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes cashing-in of 
annuities)  was a permissive over-ride. What this means is the schemes are allowed to make 
these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mrs Ms position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it can, but 
only up to a limit of £10,000.
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance? 
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Principles for Businesses
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of their 
business model.
Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their 
customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should act in 
the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the expense of other 
customers. Nor to act in a particular customers interest without consideration of other factors or 
wider implications.
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some 
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.
Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, 
there may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal 
arrangement with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could 
cause issues with commutation.
-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively 
affect the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case
1.Does Prudential have discretion to commute Mrs Ms annuity as requested? For 
example:
-Is the value under £10,000?
-Is Mrs M the legal owner of the annuity?
-Is Prudential the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2.If Prudential is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Mrs Ms best 
interests to allow commutation? For example:
-Would it expose her to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
-Would it affect other income that she relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3.If Prudential was free to grant Mrs Ms request to commute the annuity and doing so would have been in her best interest, was it fair and reasonable for Prudential to 
refuse? In other words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way?
My findings
Prudential hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free to 
allow Mrs M to cash-in the annuity. So I am proceeding on the basis that it does have discretion 
to commute her annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Mrs M to show that she would be worse off if she 
were to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. Having considered what Mrs Ms told us and the 
value of her annuity, which is paying her just £4 a month, Im satisfied the annuity is so small it 
doesnt provide any meaningful income on which she relies. I accept her position that shed benefit 
more from a cash lump sum, even if small. I also note this is what Mrs M has said she preferred to 
do before taking out the annuity (i.e. she wanted to take her whole pension as a cash lump sum) 
had that been possible at the time. For these reasons, and subject to the lump sum value (which 
hasnt been determined), Ive proceeded also on the basis that it would be in Mrs Ms personal 
interest to encash the annuity.
This case therefore comes down to whether Prudential fairly took into account Mrs Ms 
interests when it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow her to cash-in her annuity. I think 
it did.
Prudential has told us it is unwilling at this point in time to offer a cash in value to Mrs M, 
essentially because the annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed in, so it would be difficult 
to offer that option now without incurring significant cost and inconvenience  and possibly to 
the detriment of other customers. It made a number of points about this, for example:
-Offering commutation to Mrs M simply because the annuity is small means it would have 
to offer the same option to all customers with small annuities. Otherwise, it wouldnt be 
treating its customers consistently (and therefore fairly). It doesnt have the systems and 
processes in place to facilitate significant numbers of commutations.
-Without appropriate processes and checks, customers could be exposed to the risk of 
poor outcomes.
-Designing an appropriate framework to allow a commutation option would require 
significant time, planning and regulator engagement (and presumably cost).
-Annuities are long-term commitments, backed by long-term and illiquid assets, so 
cash values arent easily realised.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think Prudentials points are fair ones. I dont think 
Prudential simply disregarded Mrs Ms interests in this case. Its position is based on its 
considerations of what allowing commutation could mean for its customers and business model 
more widely.
It seems to me that Prudential could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to treat 
Mrs Ms case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for a business 
the size of Prudential. However, I acknowledge Prudentials difficulty here. Im not persuaded there 
is reason in Mrs Ms case to treat her differently to other customers with small annuities. (Its my 
understanding that is a significant portion of customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Mrs M would probably be better off with a cash lump sum and the 
annuity isnt useful to her. Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt 
something Mrs M had a right to. And while Prudential was free to allow her request, Im 
satisfied it did have other legitimate interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity 
product was designed, the impact on Prudentials existing systems and processes, the 
interests of its customers more widely and the potential cost.
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Prudential to decline Mrs Ms request. 
It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mrs M in line with other customers.We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities and Im 
aware that some businesses have previously offered cash values to customers. If in the future 
Prudential changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, its possible Mrs M 
may benefit from such a change. But in the present circumstances I dont think shes been treated 
unfairly.
I appreciate Mrs M will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I am not 
intending to uphold her complaint.
Mrs M is understandably disappointed with my decision and doesnt agree with it. Shes 
asked how it can be fair that if her pension had been with other companies, she wouldve 
been able to cash it in. Shes also said how can one company have its own rules that differ 
wildly from others in the industry.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings reached in my provisional 
decision. And so my final decision remains the same and as set out above.
In response to Mrs Ms question following the provisional decision  weve had other similar 
complaints to hers with other pension providers and in our experience Prudentials stance is 
also mirrored by the other providers. I know in the past there has been exceptions made and 
Im aware of one provider who as part of its business model buys up annuity books and then 
offers cashing in to those customers  but as of now businesses offering cashing in to 
customers looks to be very much in the minority. With regards to the rules that apply to the 
businesses, I set these out in the provisional decision. And the Finance Act which brought 
about the ability to offer cashing in is permissive legislation which allows businesses to use it 
at their discretion.
In conclusion, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Prudential to decline Mrs Ms 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mrs M in line with other 
customers.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman