DRN-3524617
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard made it difficult for him
to access his account online.
What happened
Mr W lost his username to access his Barclaycard account online. Mr W says he was able to
reset this, but he was still unable to log into his account. He said he tried to ring Barclaycard
about this, but he was still on hold after 25 minutes, so he tried to log into his account using
his card details. Mr W said he was unable to log into his account this way.
Mr W says he tried to contact Barclaycard through mail and online chat, but he still had no
access to his account online. Mr W says that when he tried to log in, a pop up window
showed a message from Barclaycard which said Sorry, theres been a problem with our
system. Were currently unable to log you in. Mr W has said hes had several phone calls,
including one which lasted nearly two hours and nobody could resolve this issue.
Mr W made a complaint to Barclaycard. They did not uphold his complaint. Barclaycard said
they had found no errors with their online services. Mr W brought his complaint to our
service. He sent our investigator a timeline of what he said had happened, which included
screenshots with the error messages.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint. He said an issue had been that Barclaycard
confirmed that their website had been sending access codes to an old telephone number
due to Barclaycards software system using a number from an old account that hes not used
for the last 10 years.
Our investigator said that while Barclaycard have made efforts to investigate the issue for Mr
W, he didnt feel that Mr Ws experience or impact had been fully considered - as a customer
of Barclaycard, Mr W had no online access to his account for almost a year. Which meant Mr
W spent time and effort, causing him distress and inconvenience, to where he needed to
keep a running log on everything hes experienced or attempted in his communications with
Barclaycard.
Our investigator also said that the time elapsed in trying to resolve Mr W being able to log
into his online account was beyond whats fair and reasonable to expect Mr W to be without
access to his Barclaycard online account, and Mr W hadnt been reasonably compensated
for the time and effort hed put into resolving the issue. Our investigator felt it would be fair
for Barclaycard to pay Mr W £200 for inconvenience and distress and to provide the
technical support needed to establish and explain whats required to fix the issue for Mr W.
Mr W asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He confirmed he was now able to
log into his account, but the compensation our investigator suggested did not compensate
him for the time he spent on the complaint. He said the minimum he would consider would
be 35 hours at his hourly work wage of £39.00 per hour and a goodwill payment for the
stress caused.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im glad that Mr W is now able to log into his account. Unfortunately, the cause of him being
unable to log into his account was undetected for a long period of time, which was due to an
old mobile number on Barclaycards systems, which then wouldnt allow Mr W to 
successfully log in to his account, no matter what was suggested by Barclaycard initially.
During this time, Mr W had been told incorrect information and he had spent a long period of
time on the phone, amongst other channels, trying to rectify this issue to no avail, until the
Barclaycard do not dispute the time Mr W has spent trying to get through to them and how
long hes spent on the phone in total. And while it was during the pandemic and resources
were stretched, the time that Mr W has been on the phone to Barclaycard does seem to be
excessive, even when factoring in the circumstances in which he rang. This may have been
more acceptable if the issue was able to be resolved when Mr W first brought the log in
issues to Barclaycards attention. But the issue wasnt resolved in a timely manner.
Ive looked through the evidence Mr W has sent our service, including the various
screenshots, emails and communications hes had with Barclaycard. Despite the multiple
communications he had with Barclaycard, it was still a considerable time that the error came
to light.
So I agree with our investigator that Mr Ws experience and the impact of the issue hadnt
been fully considered - as a customer of Barclaycard, Mr W had no online access to his
account for almost a year. While Barclaycard made efforts to investigate the issue for Mr W,
they rang him and left him voicemails, and theyve sent communication to Mr W with a
telephone number that Mr W could ring at a more convenient time for him, this was still a
long time for the issues to be resolved.
So Ive considered what would be a fair amount of compensation for Mr W in light of the
issues hes had. Our investigator recommended  and Barclaycard agreed, that £200
compensation would be fair and reasonable. But Im not persuaded that this recognises the
impact the events had on Mr W and Ill explain why.
The issue did cause Mr W a lot of inconvenience. There were multiple hours spent on the
phone and communicating with Barclaycard, without the cause of issue being identified until
much later as Ive already mentioned. It was implied that the issue was with Mr Ws systems
at one point as opposed to being because of an old mobile number Mr W used to own. So
Im persuaded this would have distressed Mr W.
Ive considered how much compensation Mr W has asked for. He said he thought 35 hours
at his hourly work wage of £39.00 per hour and a goodwill payment for the stress caused
would be fair and reasonable. This would equate to £1,365 on the hourly wage alone.
It may help if I explain to Mr W that compensation is a discretionary remedy that we
sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted wrongfully and therefore caused
distress and inconvenience to their customer over and above that which naturally flows from
the event. When we recommend compensation, it is often modest and within our established
guidelines.
Our service also doesnt generally award compensation based on someones hourly rate.
We wouldnt usually value one persons time as worth more than another persons time.Instead, we consider the overall impact an error had on someone.
So Im satisfied that £300 compensation would be reasonable here. I know Mr W will be very
disappointed with this level of compensation, but Im satisfied that this recognises the impact
of the aforementioned issues. While our investigator asked Barclaycard to provide technical
support to Mr W, as the issue is now resolved, I wont require them to contact Mr W to
provide technical support. But it follows that I intend to ask Barclaycard to put things right for
Mr W.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Barclaycard accepted the provisional decision. Mr W accepted the provisional 
decision, but he also asked us to pass onto Barclaycard some comments he had about how 
they handled his complaint and the impact this had on him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to let Mr W know that I will ask our investigator to forward his comments onto 
Barclaycard. I must make him aware they are not obliged to respond to his comments, but 
they may be minded to use his comments to provide feedback to the relevant departments.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask Barclaycard to pay Mr W a total of £300 for 
distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given 
previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should pay Mr W 
£300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman