DRN-4082332
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) irresponsibly gave him a credit card 
account that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 8 June 2019, Mr C applied for a credit account with Lloyds. The initial credit limit was 
£1500. The credit limit never increased.
In 2020, Mr C complained to Lloyds to say that the account shouldnt have been opened 
for him because it wasnt affordable and that Lloyds ought to have made a better effort to 
understand his financial circumstances before doing so.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Lloyds didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Lloyds didnt agree. So, the
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 23 March 2023, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach 
to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Cs complaint is that Lloyds made credit available that was unaffordable. Lloyds has 
explained that it relied in part on information that Mr C provided at the time of the 
application to assess affordability. Lloyds said they carried out a credit search in Mr Cs 
name to assess his level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been 
managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Lloyds 
decided to agree a credit limit of £1,500. 
The income that Mr C declared was not modest. The initial credit limit was relatively 
modest compared to Mr Cs income and the repayments on it would have been modest 
too. The Lloyds checks showed that Mr C already owed an amount in unsecured 
borrowings that was not insignificant but it wasnt immodest when compared to the good 
salary that Mr C declared. 
Lloyds told us that the credit checks they performed showed that Mr Cs credit file was 
very clean at the time of the loan application. I have noted the credit file that Mr C 
provided. It supports the information that Lloyds said they gathered at the time of the 
lending decision. The credit file shows that Mr C had no immediate history of defaults, 
CCJs or arrears on his credit. So, it seemed from the credit checks that at the point that 
the lending decision was made, Mr C was affording his existing credit. 
It is true that the credit file does show signs of financial difficulty some time after the 
lending decision was made that is at the heart of this complaint. But I have to consider the 
information that was provided for Lloyds or that they sourced or that they could have 
sourced at the time the lending decision was made and not to use hindsight. So, I repeat 
that it would have seemed from the credit checks that at the point that the lending decision 
was made, Mr C was affording his existing credit.
So, I have seen insufficient evidence that the other information that Lloyds acquired or had 
presented to it at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to think that they 
were remiss in not checking Mr Cs expenditure more closely. At the point that Mr C 
applied for the credit card there was nothing from the credit reference agency that made 
that level of credit automatically unreasonable or that would have put Lloyds off supplying 
the credit. And having considered all the submissions made in this case, I think that was 
reasonable. 
And I dont think that deeper checks would have put Lloyds off providing the lending. I say 
that because the credit report shows that Mr C was managing his existing credit. And the 
bank statements that Mr C has provided show a large amount of money coming into his 
account each month and that balances the amount leaving it. So again, the bank 
statements evidence Mr C managing his finances. 
In this case, I have also noted that the first use of the card was for a balance transfer. The 
credit report shows that the first months transaction was a balance transfer that used 
almost all of the credit limit. The balance transfer was for £1400. Lloyds has told us that 
the credit card had offered a promotional offer of 0% interest on balance transfers. So, it 
seems unlikely that this lending would have added to Mr Cs expenditure at all initially. 
So, I dont see the new credit card as evidence solely of new credit being provided by 
Lloyds, adding to an already significant amount of personal borrowing. Instead, it looks 
more likely that Mr C was taking steps, that could be termed sensible, to manage his 
existing debt by taking out this card and using it to secure more favourable terms to 
existing credit. I say that because Mr C would have been saving money on interest he 
would have been paying elsewhere. So, it doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for 
Lloyds to have facilitated that.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Lloyds provided Mr C was unreasonable. Further, Im not 
persuaded that what Lloyds could see of his management of other credit ought to have 
prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Mr C will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr C to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 13 April 2023. Lloyds said it had no further comments to make. 
Mr C has not acknowledged receiving the provisional decision, made any further submission 
or asked for an extension to do so. I consider that Mr C has had sufficient time to make a 
further submission, had he wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
thinking that this is a complaint that should not be upheld, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman