DRN-3300128
The complaint
Mr O complains that the fee waiver on his Gold Service Account (GSA) was removed by 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) in September 2021.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O says that he has had an agreement with Lloyds for decades which gave him a fee 
waiver on his GSA, provided he holds a certain amount of money in his account.
Mr O says that Lloyds had no right to terminate that agreement and remove the fee waiver in 
September 2001.
Lloyds says it made a commercial decision to remove the fee waiver on the GSA and wrote 
to all customers affected by the decision in June 2021 to give three months notice that the 
GSA would change and a fee would be introduced to pay for the benefits. It says the letter it 
sent made customers aware of the options they had including downgrading to a fee free 
account.
Mr O has asked for a clear answer to his question whether Lloyds still has the terms and 
conditions of the GSA agreement he signed some time before the year 2000.
I wrote to Lloyds and asked this specific question. Lloyds replied that it no longer has any 
information about the terms and conditions of the GSA agreement before 2000.
I considered this situation carefully. Lloyds is not required to keep information from so long 
ago by law. And it has in its dealings with this service provided a library of all the product 
documentation that it does have on record which has assisted us in other cases.
Therefore, Ive concluded that its more likely than not that Lloyds does not have the GSA 
documentation that Mr O is seeking or it would have sent it to me, and it has not done 
anything wrong in not having it now.
Mr O has argued that he believes he signed an agreement with Lloyds which included the 
fee waiver and didnt provide for Lloyds to change this at any time.
While I dont doubt the honesty of Mr Os recollections, I cannot assume that because Lloyds 
cant produce the document, then it must have contained the agreement Mr O says it did.
Rather, I must consider what is more likely than not to have been in the agreement between 
the two parties.
So, Ive considered the many sets of terms and conditions of bank accounts that Ive seen in 
this services records from Lloyds and many other banks and financial institutions and in 
other cases Ive done.
In these records, Ive not seen any set of terms and conditions that didnt include the right for 
either party to end the initial agreement provided appropriate notice is given to the other 
party.
So, I think its more likely than not that the GSA agreement between Lloyds and Mr O 
contained that right for both parties.
Having reached that conclusion, I think that Lloyds did have the right to change the terms 
and conditions of the GSA and, by informing him three months in advance, did give Mr O 
reasonable notice of the change in 2021. 
So, although I know hell be very disappointed, I cant say that its more likely than not that 
Lloyds did something wrong in this matter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman