DRN-4298297
The complaint
Mr M complains about the renewal option The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited trading as Scottish Provident gave him for his Renewable Self-Assurance policy.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr M received a renewal option for his policy. Because of a large increase in 
the premium he complained to Scottish Provident.
Scottish Provident didnt uphold the complaint saying renewal premiums were calculated 
using the current set of rates and that age was a key factor in the increase.
Remaining unhappy Mr M brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought Scottish Provident were 
administering the policy in line with the terms and the documentation made it clear that 
premiums might change.  
Mr M disagreed saying the increase was exorbitant. Because an agreement couldnt be 
reached the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has provided a lot of information about this complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr M that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised 
some things which reflects the informal nature of our service.  
Also, whilst my role is to look at everything in detail, its also to consider things in the round. 
This means that I wont necessarily answer every question or point raised by Mr M as Im 
satisfied that I understand the crux of the complaint.
To begin I think its important to say that this complaint is about how the policy is being 
administered and not about how the policy was taken out. I understand there is a separate 
complaint being raised about the sale of the policy and those issues will be addressed in 
there. Im looking at what happened with the 2022 renewal. 
Mr M had a Renewable Self-Assurance Term policy. This means the policy is taken out for a 
particular term. At the end of the term Mr M is given the opportunity to renew the policy, 
which is what happened in 2012. When the policy came around for renewal in 2022 there 
was a very substantial increase in premiums. 
When the policy comes up for renewal what happens is that the old policy finishes because 
the term has ended, and a new term policy is put in place. Scottish Provident then calculate 
the premium for another term using the current rates at that time. This is explained in the 
product literature:
We will base the premiums for the new cover on the age of the life assured and our rates 
applying at the time of the renewal .. 
Other literature about the policy says:
Please note that if you decide to take up the renewal option, we will set up your new benefit 
based on the current terms and conditions we offer. This means that your replacement cover 
may not be the same as your previous benefit. 
Looking at all the policy and renewal documents Im satisfied its made clear that any 
renewal is offered at the current terms at that time, and that factors such as age are taken 
into consideration. Also I think its made sufficiently clear that a new policy (or cover) will be 
set up. This isnt a case of the old original policy staying the same and being reviewed. Here 
the old policy ends and a new one is set up on new terms, including recalculation of 
premiums.
A feature of this product is that the renewal option is offered without evidence of health. This 
is often a usual feature for policyholders. 
One of the questions asked by Mr M was around a possible reduction in the sum assured 
keeping the same premium level. Policy information says any renewal will have the same 
level of cover as the previous policy. Whilst I can see why Mr M wouldve liked to explore 
that option it isnt a feature of the product. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Scottish Provident acted 
fairly and reasonably when administering the policy and offering the option of a renewal.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J, Mrs M and 
Mr M as trustees of the M Trust to accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman