DRN-3904380
The complaint
Mr H complains about a decision by TSB Bank plc, who Ill call TSB, to reject a
chargeback claim he made to them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I dont think TSB have done anything wrong here. Ill
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as is the case
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by TSB, its administered by VISA, and
they set the rules. TSB didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it fair for
them to do so if there was a reasonable prospect of success.
By the time Mr H raised his concerns with TSB the direct debit had already been processed 
and their systems wouldnt allow them to cancel it.
But TSB did raise a chargeback claim on Mr Hs behalf. The scheme administrators, VISA, 
rejected that claim when the merchant defended it, but that wasnt a decision TSB made. I 
think TSB had done what they could; theyd raised the claim for Mr H so that it could be 
reviewed by VISA. And, in the circumstances, I dont think they need to take any further 
action. 
In response to our investigators view on this complaint Mr H said, TSBs process does not 
consider my direct instruction on who to give my funds to but overrides this for any company 
I have previously had dealings with but am now in dispute.
Whilst I understand Mr Hs frustration, it is for TSB to decide on the processes they adopt. 
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take 
into account the relevant, laws and regulations, regulators rules, guidance, and standards, 
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time. And having done so, I dont think TSB have done anything 
wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman