DRN-3924539
The complaint
Mrs H complains that esure Insurance Limited made an unfair offer to settle a claim she 
made on her car insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H insured her car with esure. She made a claim for damage to her car after she was 
involved in an accident. esure declared it a write off and offered £8610 in settlement of the 
claim, saying that was the market value of the car at the time of loss.
Mrs H complained to esure. She said her car was worth more and felt esure hadnt 
considered factors such as the high second-hand car prices and the variation of prices 
across the country. She didnt feel the settlement figure offered was sufficient for her to 
purchase a like for like replacement.
esure felt it had fairly valued the car so didnt uphold her complaint. Mrs H then referred her 
complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt think esures offer was fair and 
recommended it to increase the offer by £482.66 plus 8% simple interest.
Mrs H accepted the view but esure didnt agree. It said it had followed our services general 
approach and felt the offer it made was fair. esure felt it was unreasonable to use a motor 
trade guide the service only started using after it made the initial offer. It also felt the 
investigator shouldnt have discounted one of the motor trade values it had provided.
Our investigator considered the information again and agreed to include the motor trade 
value esure wanted. But he still felt the offer was unfair because esure should have 
discounted the outlying valuation figure on one of the motor trade guides it had used. He 
said esure should therefore increase its offer by £399.50.
Mrs H and esure didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold   
Mrs Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Hs policy say We wont pay more than the market value of 
your car at the time of loss, less the total excess payable.
The market value is defined as The market value is the amount you could reasonably have 
expected to sell your car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. 
Our assessment of the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar 
age, condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research 
from motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you 
paid when you purchased the car.
When calculating the market value, esures provided evidence that it looked at four different 
motor trade guides which gave values of:
Cazoo - £7,547
Glasss - £9,030
CAPs - £9,103
Parkers - £8,760
These guides use data from various sources to give what they consider to be the likely 
selling price for cars of a similar specification, age, mileage and condition at the time of loss. 
The average of these guides was £8,610. esure didnt consider any of the values to be 
outliers as being either too high or too low, so used the average figure for the settlement it 
offered.
Our general approach to complaints about insurers valuations of cars is that if the offer falls 
within the range of values obtained from the various trade guides (once any outliers have 
been excluded), then wed normally say it was fair. We think the trade guides are generally 
more persuasive in indicating the likely selling price of a car rather than adverts for similar 
cars, as the adverts give an advertised price, rather than a selling price.
Im satisfied the valuations obtained by esure were based on the correct details for Mrs Hs 
car but I think one of them should have been excluded when considering what is a fair offer. 
I say this because the Cazoo valuation was £7,547 whereas the other valuations ranged 
between £8,760 and £9,103, so as it was significantly less than the other values I would 
have expected esure to have discounted this as an outlier.
Ive looked at the remaining information and in addition to the Glasss, CAP and Parkers 
valuations, weve also obtained a valuation from the AutoTrader valuation tool, which gave 
the value for Mrs Hs car as £9,145.
I appreciate esure say its unreasonable for this service to use a motor trade tool that wasnt 
part of our approach at the time it made the initial offer to Mrs H. And I would generally agree 
with that approach if esure had made a fair offer at the time. But here Im not satisfied esure 
did fairly value Mrs Hs car in line with our general approach because it failed to discount the 
outlier as I would have expected. So as I now have to decide a fair valuation, I think it is 
reasonable for me to use all the information and evidence available to me now.
So having considered esures offer in line with the four values mentioned above (discounting 
Cazoo and including AutoTrader), I not persuaded esures current settlement figure is fair. 
So it follows I think esure needs to do more to put things right for Mrs H. I think a fair 
settlement would be the average of these values which is £9,009.50. So to put things right 
esure should make an additional payment to Mrs H of £399.50 plus 8% simple interest from 
the date of settlement to the date the payment was made.
Ive noted Mrs H has said that adverts for similar cars have significantly higher prices than 
the settlement made by esure. As mentioned, we normally consider that the valuation tools 
give a more accurate figure for market values, as they are based on likely and actual selling 
prices, advertised prices and other data. Adverts alone arent usually enough for us to say 
that a settlement offer is too low. I havent seen anything which persuades me I should 
disregard the values given by the valuation tools in favour of the advertised prices found by Mrs H.
The responses to my provisional decision 
Both Mrs H and esure responded to my provisional decision. Mrs H had nothing further to 
add and accepted the findings of my provisional decision. 
esure remained of the opinion that it was unreasonable to use the AutoTrader valuation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, I will be upholding this complaint.
Ive already mentioned in my provisional decision, if esure had made a fair offer by 
discounting the outlier in regard to the Cazoo valuation when it made the initial offer, I 
wouldnt have thought it would be fair to ask it to do anything further now. 
But as Ive outlined, Im not persuaded esure made a fair settlement offer at the time, 
because it included this outlier which was over £1,200 lower than the other valuations it 
used. Our general approach to complaints about insurers valuations of cars is that if the 
offer falls within the range of values obtained from the various trade guides, then wed 
normally say it was fair, but this would only be once any outliers have been excluded, which 
isnt the case here.  
So I need to decide what I consider a fair settlement offer should be now taking into account 
all the evidence and information available to me now. The valuation provided by the 
Autotrader tool is similar to the other valuations that are not considered outliers, so I dont 
think it should be considered an outlier either. Ive explained in my provisional decision why, 
in the circumstances of this case, I think its fair to use the AutoTrader motor valuation tool. 
And Ive not been provided any further information that changes my thoughts on this.
Given all of this, I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld for the reasons 
outlined above.
Putting things right
Based on everything Ive seen; I think esure Insurance Limited should do the below to put 
things right for Mrs H.
Increase the settlement paid on the claim by £399.50, to £9009.50.
Pay simple interest at a rate of 8% on the additional amount from the date of its 
original settlement offer to the date of final settlement. *
*If esure Insurance Limited considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from the above interest, it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also 
give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC 
if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. esure Insurance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman