DRN-4208183
The complaint
Mrs W is a sole trader, trading as L. She complains that Clearbank Limited (trading as Tide) 
hasnt refunded money that was lost from Ls account as the result of a scam. 
Tide branded accounts are provided by Clearbank Limited, but for convenience and clarity in 
what follows I will refer to Tide.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will 
summarise the relevant facts.  
L holds an account with Tide, with Mrs W as the authorised signatory. On 11 September 
2022, Mrs W received a call from someone claiming to be from Tides fraud team. 
Unfortunately, and unknown to Mrs W at the time, she was in reality interacting with a 
scammer. 
The caller had been able to make it appear that the call originated from the number on the 
back of Mrs Ws Tide card (a fraud technique known as number spoofing). 
The caller said Ls account was at risk of fraudulent activity and instructed Mrs W to transfer 
the funds in it to another Tide account to keep the money safe. 
Mrs W followed the instructions she was given, making three faster payments in quick 
succession. Within 12 minutes this cleared the full account balance. These payments were 
for the sums of £9,950, £8,500 and £4491.54. All three went to a single payee, which was 
another Tide account that Mrs W was told was the new account for L.
Mrs W then received a call from another number. This time the caller was supposedly from 
another financial firm with whom she held an account. But this time when she checked the 
number that appeared on caller ID, it was listed as the contact for that firms overseas wealth 
management arm  which she knew couldnt be right. She realised that the earlier caller 
might not have been legitimate either and reported what had happened to Tide. 
When the scam was reported, Tide tried to recover Ls money. It was able to retrieve a total 
of £17,946.64, leaving an outstanding loss of £4,994.90.
Tide declined Ls claim for a refund of the remaining sum. It maintained its position when L 
complained. In its final response, it said Mrs W had authorised the disputed payments and 
there was nothing more it could have done to have prevented the loss. It explained it was not 
feasible to stop and check every single payment and it had adequate systems in place. 
Our Investigator reviewed everything. She recommended the complaint be upheld. The 
Investigator highlighted that the payments were for much higher values than had been usual 
for Ls account. She also thought draining the account balance stood out. In all she thought 
Tide ought to have been concerned enough to intervene and warn Mrs W this could be a 
scam. She thought Tide would have been able to uncover the scam if had contacted Mrs W 
to question her about the reason for the payments. She noted the sophistication of the scam 
and believed Mrs Ws actions were reasonable in the circumstances. 
Tide offered a 50% refund in response to the Investigators view. It said that business 
customers do make bigger payments from time to time and pointed out it has a difficult 
balance to strike between allowing genuine business activity and detecting potential 
irregularities. However, it accepted it could have done more to monitor these specific 
transactions given the concerning factors our Investigator had highlighted. Nonetheless, it 
didnt agree with the Investigator that it should fully reimburse L. It said Mrs W should take 
some responsibility too.
Tide highlighted that in making the payments Mrs W had to proceed past a warning saying 
that the payees account name didnt match the name shed input. And it pointed out that the 
wording of the one-time passcode texts sent to Mrs Ws mobile number included wording 
saying Tide would never call asking for funds to be moved. It thought Mrs W shouldnt have 
gone ahead having seen these warnings.
L didnt accept Tides offer, and our Investigator didnt agree with Tide that Mrs W should 
share responsibility. 
In light of this disagreement, I have been asked to reach a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite what Tide has said and the evidence it has provided, Ive 
concluded that Tide should refund the remaining sum L lost to the scam, together with 
interest to recognise that L has been deprived of that money. Ill explain why Ive reached 
that finding.
Im satisfied that Mrs W authorised these three payments on behalf of L, albeit only doing so 
having been deceived through a scam. So, although she didnt intend the money to go to the 
scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of 
the account, L is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. But the matter doesn't end 
there.
As a matter of good industry practice Id expect Tide to be looking out for unusual or out of 
character payments that might be indicative of the risk of loss through fraud or scam. 
In this case, Tide acknowledges that its transaction monitoring system did not accurately 
recognise the risk in Mrs Ws transactions. It has taken account of our Investigators 
comments that the situation bore the hallmarks of a scam. The transactions were 
significantly higher than any other payments L had made before. They rapidly depleted the 
available balance, and the actual account name didnt match the account name that Mrs W 
had entered. 
I agree here - Tide should have spotted these signs and contacted Mrs W to ask some 
appropriate questions. Theres nothing to make me think Mrs W would have done other than 
to answer openly and honestly, thereby bringing the scam to light. Therefore, had Tide done 
so, I see no reason why it would not have been able to uncover the scam and prevent Ls 
losses.
While Tide now agrees it should have done more, it also thinks Mrs W should share some responsibility for the loss. In light of this, Ive carefully considered whether Mrs Ws actions or 
inactions fell below the standard expected of a reasonable person. Having done so, Im not 
persuaded that she should fairly be blamed for falling for the scammers story. I can 
understand why she accepted what she was being told. I dont consider Tide has placed 
appropriate weight on the trust built by the scammer during the course of this scam.
And in particular, I find a spoofed number will often prove a very powerful deception to 
convince a customer that the call has originated with the genuine company being 
impersonated. All taken into account, in this specific instance Im satisfied this factor carried 
significant weight  adding considerable legitimacy to the false beliefs the scammer was able 
to engender. At the time Mrs W believed she was speaking to Tide, and I dont think she 
ought to have realised that she wasnt.
Tide argues that the specific number used by the scammer would only ever be used by it for 
inbound calls  it would never make an outbound call from that number. But Mrs W did not 
know that did not know that at the time - and I dont consider she ought reasonably to have 
known that.
Tide has also pointed out that the wording of the one-time passcode (OTP) text covered 
exactly the situation Mrs W was in  it would never ask someone to move money. But I dont 
think this is enough to persuade me that Mrs Ws actions at the time were careless or 
unreasonable.
In particular, I note her testimony that the scammer created a sense of urgency and the need 
to act quickly to protect her funds. She describes feeling pressured and harassed. The 
scammer was able to create a false sense of panic. I find this testimony plausible and 
persuasive, and I think these circumstances are relevant.
Mrs W also has explained that she didnt need to exit the Tide app to input the OTP  it 
appeared as a notification, and that was enough for her to quickly input the number into her 
Tide app. That rapidity of the whole process is reflected in the very closely spaced 
transaction timings provided by Tide.
I accept that in the cold light of day, Mrs W might be expected to react differently. But in that 
specific moment, and in that false environment the scammer had created, I dont find it 
unreasonable that Tides text message didnt have the same impact on her - when set 
against what she was being told over the phone, by someone she believed to be from Tides 
own fraud team. 
Similarly in that situation I find it wasnt unreasonable for Mrs W to have been reassured by 
the scammers explanation that the name on the destination account would generate a no-
match result when Mrs W input her name as the payee, because she was told Tide was 
trying to avoid alerting those who were hacking into Ls account that Ls funds were being 
moved for protection.
In short, in the heat of the moment and in what had developed into a highly pressured 
situation, I dont think its unreasonable that Mrs W didnt realise the caller wasnt legitimate.
And overall, I am not persuaded that Mrs W acted unreasonably. I think she has done what a 
reasonable person would have done in the same situation. As such, I dont think it is fair to 
conclude that L should share liability with Tide for the loss that resulted.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I find that Clearbank Limited (Tide) should:Refund the sum of £4994.90, that being Ls outstanding loss; and,
Pay interest on the above amount, calculated at 8% simple per year (less any tax 
properly deductible*) from the date of the payments until the date of settlement. 
* If ClearBank Limited considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from the interest award, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also 
provide a tax deduction certificate if Mrs W asks for one, so the tax can be reclaimed from 
HM Revenue & Customs where appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ls complaint about Clearbank Limited. 
Clearbank Limited should settle the matter as set out above within 28 days of receiving 
notification of Ls acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman