DRN-2003769
The complaint
Mr B complains that a loan given to him by Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans was 
unaffordable for him.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr B applied for  and was given  a loan of £4,250. It was to be repaid in 48 
instalments of around £182 per month with a total amount repayable of £8,783.26. Mr B says 
he was in a cycle of borrowing money to repay other debts, couldnt afford the repayments 
so would borrow more, and he was gambling. He says this loan was unaffordable for him. 
Buddy Loans said it had carried out its usual checks and was satisfied that Mr B could afford 
the loan based on what hed told it and the information it gathered. 
Mr B referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. She felt the 
information Buddy Loans gathered ought to have led it to carry out further checks on Mr Bs 
finances. Had it done so she thought it would have found the loan was unaffordable from the 
start. She asked Buddy Loans to put things right. 
Mr B accepted what our investigator said, Buddy Loans didnt. As there was no agreement, 
Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
Buddy Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend to Mr B 
irresponsibly by carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks. I think there are key 
questions I need to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint:
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr B was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Buddy Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way?
Buddy Loans was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment. This assessment 
is sometimes referred to as an affordability check or affordability assessment. The purpose 
of the checks is for Buddy Loans to think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would 
cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr B. In other words, it wasnt about Buddy 
Loans assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan 
repayments on Mr B. The fact that the loan was guaranteed by a third party and the potential 
for it to pursue the guarantor instead of Mr B doesnt alter or lessen the obligation.
Buddy Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that it had to do, 
but it could take into account several different things such as the amount and length of the 
loan, the amount of the monthly repayments and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where:
a customer as a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing has become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
Buddy Loans asked Mr B for details of his income and expenditure and got his permission 
to review his credit file. It says it carried out a number of checks to confirm what Mr B had 
told it. Buddy Loans says the checks it carried out before agreeing to lend to Mr B were 
reasonable and proportionate, and it believes the loans were affordable for him. 
Mr Bs credit file shows he had a number of credit accounts elsewhere, most of which he 
was looking to repay with this loan. It shows hed opened four new accounts in the last six 
months, one of which was a guarantor loan with repayments of £309 which he wasnt 
looking to refinance. Buddy Loans has said itself that it noted that thered been arrears on 
some of the accounts in the past but these arrears had been cleared. 
The arrears that had accrued however were within the last six months and there had been 
an arrangement to pay on some of them. There were also several occasions when 
Mr Bs accounts had been over their limits  on one account during each of the last three 
months reported. While the arrears had been cleared, that coincided with Mr B taking 
another guarantor loan. So I think there were signs of financial pressure on his credit file.
Mr B told Buddy Loans he wanted to refinance all his existing debts with the exception of 
a guarantor loan hed taken in February 2019. The repayments on that loan were £309 
per month and it was due to run for two years. When added to the £181 Mr B would have 
to pay Buddy Loans for this loan, Mr Bs payments totalled £490 per month. Given hed 
declared monthly earnings of £1,350, this meant over a third of his monthly income would 
be going towards repaying creditors. This level of commitment to credit is often 
considered to be a sign of potential financial difficulties. 
 
I acknowledge that consolidating Mr Bs debts with this loan would have reduced his 
monthly commitments and made his finances simpler to manage. But without refinancing 
all Mr Bs debts, he was being left with a large commitment relative to his income. During the conversation Mr B had with Buddy Loans when discussing his application, the 
underwriter questioned the amount Mr B was borrowing. The underwriter believed there 
would be over £1,000 left after all Mr Bs debts were repaid. He asked Mr B what that was 
for and Mr B had no real plan for it. He said it was for emergencies - just for backup.  
The underwriter suggested Mr B might be looking to book another holiday which Mr B 
agreed would be handy, so the underwriter said hed put it down as emergencies and 
possibly another holiday. 
So from the call, it seems Buddy Loans was lending new money. The underwriter said he 
calculated that Mr B had a monthly disposable income  after this new loan  of just over 
£400.
Given the financial pressures we can see from his credit file including recent arrears, I 
think Buddy Loans should have asked further questions to gain a better grasp of Mr Bs 
financial situation  especially as its calculations showed it was lending new money for 
which there was no real plan. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ive outlined above some of the circumstances which I think ought to have led Buddy Loans 
to carry out further checks on Mr Bs finances. I think it would have been reasonable for 
Buddy Loans to get a more detailed understanding of Mr Bs financial situation, for example 
by asking to see several months of his bank statements.
Mr B has provided us with copies of his bank statements for the period leading up to the loan
being drawn. The statements show Mr Bs income was slightly lower than hed said on the 
application but given that he was paid four-weekly rather than monthly, I think the income 
quoted is reasonable.
In the last few months, the statements show he was regularly in his overdraft and there 
were fees for unarranged overdraft usage and unpaid items. This shows that Mr B was 
finding it difficult to live within his means despite Buddy Loans having calculated he had in 
excess of £400 disposable income per month.
A closer look at Mr Bs statements shows he was gambling regularly. I think the volume 
and frequency of these transactions, together with the pressures evident on his credit file 
Ive mentioned above mean its unlikely the Mr B would have been able to repay this loan 
on a sustainable basis. 
It follows that I dont think Buddy Loans reached a fair lending decision on this loan.
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way?
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think Buddy Loans has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr B in some other way.
But I do think Buddy Loans should have refused to lend to Mr B, so I am upholding his 
complaint about the loan.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt happened, as far as is reasonably practical.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr B in the position he would be in now if he hadnt 
been given the loans. But he has been given the loans and has used the money.
So, I think Buddy Loans should: 
calculate the total amount of money Mr B received as a result of having been given 
this loan and deduct the repayments hes made. 
oIf this results in Mr B having paid more than he received, the overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date 
the overpayments were made until the date of settlement).*
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Buddy Loans should attempt 
to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr B. 
remove any negative information recorded on Mr Bs credit file regarding the loans.
*If Buddy Loans considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans 
should put things right as Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman