DRN-3135441
The complaint
Mr G complains that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Loans) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr G was given a loan by Everyday Loans. It was for £3000 and was due to be repaid over 
24 months. Mr G took this loan out in January 2020 and the monthly repayment would be 
£291.35.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
Everyday Loans gathered some information from Mr G before it agreed to lend. It asked Mr 
G about his income and expenditure. It says it verified his income by checking a payslip and 
used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to assess his living expenses. It carried out a 
credit check and used this to work out his credit commitments. It also asked for bank 
statements from Mr G and checked these also.
Mr G was entering into a significant commitment with Everyday Loans. He was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments for a period of two years for £291.35. This represented a sizable 
proportion of Mr Gs monthly income. So, I think it is right that Everyday Loans wanted to 
gather, and independently check (regarding his income and through the credit search), some 
detailed information about Mr Gs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I 
think that the checks it did achieved that aim. I think on balance its checks were 
proportionate. It was Mr Gs first loan with Everyday Loans and based on his circumstances I 
think it gathered enough information in order to inform its decision to lend. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
Everyday Loans gathered from Mr G to check whether I agree it was appropriate for him to 
be given the loan.
I can see that Everyday Loans had verified Mr Gs income to be £1770.86. It recorded down 
his rent to be £300 and after it took into consideration his credit commitments and the loan 
repayment, it could see that his disposable income would be around £400 after he paid off a 
short-term loan with some of the capital of the loan, something he told Everyday Loans he 
would do. I have checked the credit search results that Everyday Loans would have had in 
front of it. The results supported Mr Gs declarations about his credit commitments and also 
did not show any impairments. The bank statements also showed that Mr G was running his 
personal account well with no missed payments or any transactions that ought to have given 
Everyday Loans concerns. From the information it gathered from its checks, I think it would 
have been apparent to Everyday Loans that the loan was affordable and there was nothing 
that it would have had in front of it that would have shown it Mr G was struggling to manage 
his finances. Or anything that would have given it concerns that he couldnt repay the loan in 
a sustainable way.
So, overall, I am currently minded to think Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks. 
In addition, with the information it had in front of it, I think it also made a fair decision to lend. 
So, I dont think Everyday Loans was wrong to give the loan to Mr G.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. ELL did not respond. Mr Gs representatives responded and 
said Mr G agrees with the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has not made any new points for me to respond to and ELL has not responded. So, 
as neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings 
within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman