DRN-3997732
The complaint
Mr A complains about delays and poor claim handling by AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA)
following the theft of his car, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr As car was stolen in December 2021. The thieves took his car keys from inside his
home, which they used to take his vehicle. They also stole his wifes car in the same way
although he confirms she has separate insurance cover in place.
Mr A says his car was recovered the same day. AXA took possession and arranged for the
keys and locks to be changed. He says a courtesy car wasnt provided until late January
2022. The car he received was much smaller than his. Mr A says delays occurred in
arranging a suitable repairer. When a repairer was assigned further problems occurred
because the garage changed owners.
Mr A says hes made a lot of calls to AXA to find out what was happening and hasnt been
kept updated. Hes paid a number of instalments towards the finance on his car whilst its
been in AXAs possession. He says its value has depreciated during this time. Mr A wants
AXA to provide compensation for the unacceptable delay in carrying out the repairs.
AXA responded to Mr As complaint in May 2022. In its letter it says there have been delays
due to unavoidable waiting times in parts being supplied. It says this is outside of its control.
AXA acknowledges the change in ownership of its appointed repairer contributed to the
delays. It also says communication has been poor and it hasnt been proactive in making
contact.
In its complaint response AXA acknowledges there was a delay in providing Mr A with a
courtesy car. It says it explained to him, in its email in December 2021, that this was
because of a nationwide shortage of vehicles. It offered £210 compensation at the time,
which Mr A didnt accept. AXA concluded its response to offer £300 compensation for the
service issues Mr A experienced. This was in addition to £50 for its delayed response to his
complaint.
Mr A didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator
didnt uphold his complaint. He acknowledged the standard of claim handling hadnt been
good but thought the compensation offered by AXA was fair.
Mr A didnt agree. He says there has been an emotional impact on him and his wife due to
AXAs lack of communication and the delayed repairs. He says this is down to its poor claim
management. Because of this Mr A asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
As complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Mr As complaint. Let me explain.
I can see that AXA arranged for Mr As car to be assessed and repaired by its approved
repairer in December 2021. From the records provided there were issues with availability
meaning the repairer couldnt commit to the work. Mr As car was then sent to another
repairer towards the end of the month. Mr A says he was able to borrow a friends car, but
this had to be returned in January 2022. After he gave the car back, I understand he was
without a vehicle for three days until a courtesy car was provided by the repairing garage.
Mr A complains that the courtesy car he received was small and not a like for like
replacement with his car. Ive read his policy terms to understand what type of vehicle is
expected to be provided. The terms say:
a courtesy car will be provided whilst an approved repairer fixes your car (subject to
availability)
And:
..the insurer's recommended repairers will not be obliged to arrange a replacement vehicle
any larger than a small hatchback, typically with a 1 litre engine capacity. If you wish to
upgrade to any other vehicle the cost of the upgrade will be your responsibility.
The courtesy car Mr A received was a small one litre hatchback. This is in line with the terms
of his policy. I acknowledge his comments that for a typical repair duration the courtesy car
isnt required to be like for like. But in this case, given the extended duration of the repairs,
the type of car provided was problematic. Again, Mr A refers to his car being a much larger
family car with seven seats.
Ive thought about the impact the much smaller car had on Mr A and his family. The terms
are clear in that there is no requirement for the repairer to provide anything other than a
small hatchback. But I think Mr A makes a valid argument that if the repairs take longer than
they reasonably should, its fair that this impact is considered.
In its response to Mr As complaint AXA told him that there had been delays due to waiting
times for specific parts. It says the supply and waiting times for component parts is outside of
its control and so it didnt uphold this part of his complaint.
Im aware that global supply chain issues have significantly impacted the motor industry over
the period in question. In some cases, this has resulted in long delays when obtaining the
components needed to effect repairs.
I asked AXA for more information about why there was such a long delay. I highlighted Mr
As point that his wifes car was stolen at the same time. The repairs involved the same parts
and for the same make of car. These repairs were completed by the end of January 2022, so
within around two months. This was far quicker than AXA was able to arrange the repairs to
Mr As car.
AXA says it contacted its repairer to query the reasons for the delays, but it was unable to
obtain a substantive response.I also asked AXA to confirm when the parts needed to repair Mr As car were ordered. He
thought this was delayed because of the repairers change of ownership. The repairer
responded to say that Mr As vehicle came on site at the end of December 2021. It says the
locks and key fob were ordered at the end of April 2022.
I asked AXA to explain why the parts werent ordered until April 2022 when the car was with
its repairer since December 2021. But it wasnt able to obtain a response from its repairer to
this point.
AXA doesnt have control over global supply chain issues impacting the motor industry. But
based on the information Ive seen its repairer delayed ordering the parts needed for the
repair for around four months. This was within its control and AXA must be considered
responsible for this delay.
AXA responded to Mr As complaint in May 2022. My remit here is to consider the issues
included in his complaint up to this point. I can see that Mr As car still hadnt been repaired
at this time.
I think its clear that AXA is responsible for a delay of around four months in the progression
of the repairs because of the delay ordering parts. It was established at an early juncture that
the locks and key fobs needed replacing. AXA hasnt provided a clear explanation why its
repairer took so long to place the order. Because of this I think AXA should compensate Mr
A for the day-to-day disruption and inconvenience it caused him over this prolonged period.
Ive also thought about the fact AXA didnt provide a courtesy car until 21 January 2022. This
was a period of around seven weeks from when Mr A first claimed. AXA highlights a national
issue with the supply of cars at this time. It says this meant a vehicle wasnt available.
Ive considered that Mr A was able to borrow a car from a friend for the majority of this time. I
accept this wasnt ideal. But he was able to mitigate the impact of not having his car for this
time. This left a period of three days when he didnt have a car to drive. In these
circumstances I think its fair that AXA compensates Mr A for the inconvenience this caused.
Ive also thought about the time and effort Mr A made when contacting AXA to obtain
updates about the repairs and to progress matters. He says he made over 100 calls with
very little contact from AXA or its agents unless specifically requested. Mr A also says that
on occasion no responses were received.
Ive read the records provided by AXA as well as Mr As submissions. I can see that he was
in regular contact with AXA. I dont think the records provided by AXA show every contact.
But I have no reason to doubt Mr As testimony that this involved a lot of time and effort on
his part. In its complaint response AXA acknowledges that a poor standard of
communication was achieved throughout Mr As claim. Based on what Ive read I think this is
a fair summation. Its fair that AXA compensates Mr A for the inconvenience and frustration it
caused him.
I note Mr As reference to AXA not carrying out its due diligence when appointing the
repairer, it did. I acknowledge the change of ownership of the repairer was problematic and
caused confusion and delays. But I dont think its been shown that AXA acted unreasonably
when appointing it to carry out the repairs to Mr As car.
Were not the regulator. That is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Its not
within the remit of this service to tell an insurer how it should assess and appoint the
repairers it uses. My role is to consider Mr As individual complaint, and the impact any
failings on AXAs part have had. So, although I acknowledge Mr As concerns, Im not able tocomment further on this point. But Im satisfied my decision takes into account the impact
AXAs failings have had on Mr A.
Ive thought about Mr As comments that he has continued to pay the finance payments due
on his car while the car has been with AXAs repairer. He also says the cars value has
depreciated over this time.
Im sorry Mr A has been without his car for such a long period, but I cant reasonably say that
AXA is responsible for his finance payments or for any depreciation in value his car has
suffered. Mr A would be expected to pay any finance agreement regardless of whether his
car was undergoing repairs under an insurance claim. Similarly, although I think AXA should
compensate Mr A for the inconvenience, frustration and anxiety it caused for the delays and
poor handling of his claim, I dont think its responsible for any depreciation in the cars
market value that may have occurred.
AXA offered Mr A £350 compensation in total for its poor communication and claim handling.
I dont think this takes into consideration the four month delay its repairer caused when not
ordering parts in a timely manner. I also think the business should do more to acknowledge
the frustration, inconvenience and distress it caused Mr A for the time and effort involved
when communicating with it and its agents. The onus was on Mr A to make contact to find
out what was happening, and this was over an extended period. This shouldnt have been
the case.
In the circumstances described I think a total compensation payment of £700 is fairer to
acknowledge these issues.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and AXA should:
pay Mr A £700 compensation for the distress, frustration and inconvenience caused
by its delays, poor communication and poor claim handling.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
AXA responded to say it accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr A didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
AXA Insurance UK Plc should:
pay Mr A £700 compensation for the distress, frustration and inconvenience caused
by its delays, poor communication and poor claim handling.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman