DRN-3320544
The complaint
Ms W has complained about the service shes received from Barclays Bank UK PLC. She 
says it wont do anything without the joint mortgage holders consent, and that shes been 
given incorrect information and not enough support which has caused her arrears to 
escalate.
What happened
Ms W took out this mortgage in 2013 with her then-partner, who I will refer to as Mr X. They 
borrowed £55,000 on a repayment basis over a 15-year term.
In 2017 Ms W notified Barclays that she and Mr X had split up, and I understand Mr X 
continued to pay the mortgage.
In April 2020 Ms W said Mr X had lost his job due to the pandemic and a Covid payment 
deferral was put in place for six months.
As the situation remained the same, in September 2020 Ms W told Barclays she needed 
more support. She wanted to transfer the mortgage into her sole name, extend the mortgage 
term and switch to interest-only.  
In October 2020 Barclays agreed to a three-month interest-only concessionary period.
Ms W told Barclays in January 2021 that she needed further support, but Barclays said it 
couldnt do that without Mr Xs consent. The last payment Ms W made to the mortgage at 
that time was in January 2021.
Ms W completed an income and expenditure with Barclays which it said showed she had 
enough to make the monthly payments, but then she phoned back and provided further 
information which now showed no payment at all was affordable as her outgoings were 
significantly higher than her income, without any payment to the mortgage being included in 
that.
Ms W raised a few complaints with Barclays which related broadly to call backs not being 
received, contradictory information shed been given, how a call handler treated her on a 
call, the lack of support and that Barclays wouldnt remove Mr X from the account.
Barclays upheld two of the complaints and offered £100 compensation each time. The first 
was in September 2020 and the second in April 2021 and they related to customer service 
issues around call backs, how a call had been handled, the amount of time Ms W had spent 
on the phone and some misinformation shed been given.
Our investigator looked at things and didnt uphold the complaint. She said, in summary, that 
Barclays couldnt remove Mr X from the mortgage, the income and expenditure showed Ms 
W couldnt afford to make any payment at all to the mortgage and whilst there had been 
some customer service failings she felt the compensation already paid (which she said was 
£100) was fair.
Ms W didnt agree and so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Ms W wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that I 
have. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. If I dont comment 
on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome
I can see how difficult things have been for Ms W. I wont go into any detail here about her 
personal circumstances to protect her privacy when this decision is published. But Id like to 
reassure Ms W that, whilst I wont mention any details here, Ive read and understood 
everything shes said.
Ms W has said that her main complaint isnt that Barclays wont remove Mr X from the 
mortgage or make the other changes she discussed (such as a switch to interest-only and/or 
a term extension), it is about how Barclays has treated her.
Barclays has accepted that its call handler gave incorrect information to Ms W about whether 
or not there was a panel that a referral could be made to. As our investigator confirmed, 
there is a panel but a referral couldnt be made in Ms Ws case as there was no affordable 
proposal that could be put forward. That is, the income and expenditure information Ms W 
gave indicated that she couldnt afford to make any payment to the mortgage at all so there 
was nothing the panel could have agreed and so no referral could be made. 
The panels role would be to consider whether a change could be made to the mortgage 
without Mr Xs consent. But a change can only be made if it is affordable to Ms W on her 
own, and at the time in question that wasnt the case and so no referral could be made.
If, in the future, Ms Ws situation changes so that her income and expenditure information 
can prove she can afford to make a payment towards the mortgage then Barclays can look 
at making a referral at that time (if Ms W meets any relevant eligibility criteria), but Barclays 
can only make changes that are deemed affordable and so there is nothing the panel can 
consider.
It is clear there has been some confusion surrounding that, but Im satisfied Ms W was given 
the right information and there was nothing a manager could say that would change that.
I can see how frustrating Ms W would have found this, but it isnt our role to fine or punish 
businesses for its mistakes. I have to keep in mind that all this was going on against the 
backdrop of the pandemic and in Ms Ws submissions its clear that at times she was dealing 
with staff that didnt work in that particular area normally. Whilst that wasnt ideal for Ms W, if 
Barclays hadnt called on staff from other areas then the call waiting times (which Ms W has 
also mentioned) would have been even longer. There was never an option for the panel to 
look at Ms Ws mortgage once it was discovered  in March 2021 when the income and 
expenditure information was provided  that there were no affordable options and so whilst 
there may have been confusion and a loss of expectation, I dont think Ms W was caused 
any financial detriment.
Ms W has said:I also completed out a expenditure form prior to the one your talking about, barclays said 
that I could afford the payments so there was nothing they could do!!! How do you please 
explain that???
I then included my solicitor fees for family court they said, now you cant afford it, theres 
also nothing we can do! Please could you explain that to me? It doesnt make any sense.
I can see how that could be confusing. The first income and expenditure information Ms W 
provided didnt include all her outgoings, so from that it seemed to Barclays that the full 
contractual mortgage payment was affordable each month. In that case then Barclays didnt 
need to offer any financial support (known as forbearance) because the information provided 
by Ms W showed that she could afford the full mortgage payment so didnt need financial 
assistance.
But when Ms W called back the next day she included some additional outgoings, and that 
led to the income and expenditure calculation showing that her outgoings were actually 
higher than her income (even without any payments being made to the mortgage). Under the 
rules set for it by the regulator, Barclays can only make changes to a mortgage (either 
permanently or on a temporary basis) if those changes are affordable. Unfortunately there 
was nothing Barclays could do that would be classed as affordable as the information Ms W 
had provided showed she couldnt afford to make any payment towards the mortgage at all.
Barclays has apologised for how a call was handled and it provided feedback to the agent 
concerned. It also apologised for call backs that werent made and how long Ms W had 
spent on the phone. Ms W has said that she received two separate offers of £100 
compensation, and that more things happened after then that she hasnt been compensated 
for.
In deciding what amount is fair and reasonable we take into account all the various factors, 
but well come to one overall figure. Although the number and frequency of the errors or 
failings is a relevant consideration, well look at what happened more in the round. And 
whilst it is clear that Ms W feels very strongly about this, our role isnt to fine or punish a 
business.
It isnt a matter that each individual issue receives another £100 compensation. Instead I 
look at the entire picture and the total amount a business has already offered, irrespective of 
what the business has said each award is for. If I consider the amount already offered is fair 
for everything that has gone wrong (even those things after the business had offered the 
compensation) then I wont award any more. And thats the case here.
It is clear Barclays could have provided Ms W with a better level of service, and it has 
accepted that. It has already offered £200 compensation and having considered everything I 
consider that is a fair award for everything that happened. I say this because whilst Ms W 
wasnt caused any financial detriment, she was caused inconvenience and upset. However, I 
must also keep in mind that this all happened during the pandemic when Barclays was trying 
to adapt to different ways of working and some of its staff would have been off work. Whilst 
that isnt an excuse for poor service, it is something I need to keep in mind. Were talking 
about a time where the level of calls it would be receiving would be going up due to people 
struggling with their mortgages, and it needed to adapt to working remotely without its 
normal staffing levels. 
It follows that I wont be asking Barclays to pay any more than it has already offered to do in 
relation to the complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied Barclays Bank Plc had already made 
a fair offer of compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman