DRN-1841372
The complaint
Mr H complains MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) has voided his motorcycle 
insurance policy and unfairly accused him of misrepresentation.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr H took out an insurance policy for his motorcycle through a price 
comparison website. The policy was provided by MCE.
In July 2019, Mr H called MCE and made a claim on his policy as his motorcycle had been 
stolen away from his home. While investigating his claim, MCE determined Mr H had made a 
misrepresentation when taking out the policy which it deemed to be deliberate or reckless. It 
said Mr H didnt store his motorcycle in a locked garage overnight as hed declared on his 
initial application. Instead, it was kept in shared communal storage and this didnt meet the 
policys definition of a garage. MCE also said Mr H benefitted from a reduced premium as a 
result of the deliberate/reckless misrepresentation. It voided his policy from inception, i.e. 
treated it as though it never existed  meaning that the claim wouldnt be considered, and it 
retained the premiums paid.
Mr H complained to MCE and when it didnt change its decision, he referred the matter to 
our service. I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in early May 2020, setting out 
that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint.
I set out that the relevant law was the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). And that this set out that it was the consumers (Mr Hs) duty to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And that if MCE could show he had made 
a qualifying misrepresentation, then there were certain remedies available to it. So, my first 
consideration was whether Mr H took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
I considered whether Mr H had breached his duty and in deciding this considered whether 
the insurer asked a clear and specific question  the answer to which a policyholder is 
presumed to realise is relevant to its assessment of proposed risk. MCE provided 
screenshots of the questions Mr H was asked on the price comparison website. He was 
asked where he kept his motorcycle for overnight storage and MCE has said the options he 
was presented with were:
Driveway
Locked Garage
Road
 
The screenshot didnt show that definitions of these parking areas were given alongside the 
questions. Mr H selected Locked Garage.
I carefully considered the pictures Mr H provided MCE of where he kept his motorcycle 
overnight and what he told MCE about the storage area. Although he described it as a 
storage cupboard, Mr H explained he was able to store his motorcycle there and provided 
measurements to show he could manoeuvre the motorcycle in the way he described.As MCE (by virtue of the price comparison website) didnt provide definitions of what the 
parked areas meant when it asked this question, it was left to Mr H to work out what 
matched his circumstances when answering it. I looked at the ordinary definition of garage 
and considered it could be argued that this matched the storage area where Mr H kept his 
motorcycle overnight. But I couldnt see from the available pictures how the area would have 
locked.
Having carefully considered the available information, the location Mr H kept his motorcycle 
overnight didnt strike me as one most reasonable people would think of when using the 
words locked garage. Even if Mr H was able to secure his motorcycle with a lock, the room 
itself didnt appear to have a facility to be locked. I was also mindful that Mr H said he 
presumed someone else could access the area. So even if area couldve been locked, it 
seems to me that it couldve been accessed by others who could potentially leave it 
unlocked.
I then went on to say that MCE did provide Mr H with an express definition of garage in the 
policy terms and conditions and his key facts document. So he had time to amend his 
answers, if on reflection, they werent quite right. MCE defined garage within the policy as:
A locked structure for housing motor vehicles of brick, concrete, steel or stone which is 
your private property. It is not: a rented or owned space in a shared car park; a parking 
area in/under flats; any form of locked compound; any building not built for housing 
motor vehicles such as a home or a workplace
And I said that, had Mr H read the documentation, he ought reasonably to have concluded 
that his motorcycle wasnt being stored in something that MCE or most other people would 
define as a locked garage or his private property. Or he should have at least felt the need to 
check using the contact details MCE provided for this very purpose. So, I was satisfied there 
was a misrepresentation here in breach of duty and that Mr Hs motorcycle wasnt in fact 
being stored in a locked garage as per the policys definition.
So I then had to determine if this was a qualifying misrepresentation. Under CIDRA Section 
4(1), an insurer only has a remedy against a consumer when:
(a)the consumer made the misrepresentation in breach of the duty set out in section 
2(2), and
(b)the insurer shows that without the misrepresentation, that insurer would not have 
entered into the contract (or agreed to the variation) at all, or would have done so only 
on different terms.
Id already concluded this misrepresentation was in breach of Mr Hs duty to take reasonable 
care. And as MCE had provided underwriting evidence that it wouldve insured Mr H but 
charged a higher premium (if he hadnt misrepresented), I said MCE was entitled to a 
remedy under CIDRA.
I then considered what type of misrepresentation Mr H had made, referencing Section 5(2) 
and 5(3) of CIDRA. I didnt think Mr Hs representation was deliberate or dishonest as there 
was no indication he selected one option over the other in order to reduce his premiums or 
to obtain any other more favourable terms. But then I considered whether his actions were 
reckless. And I determined they were because I considered it was clear from the 
documentation issued to him at the point of sale that the definition of garage was important 
to MCE from a risk perspective. The documentation providing the Key Facts had a section 
titled Are you sure your vehicle is garaged? And it asked the insured to read and check the 
definitions. It also provided a warning saying If we do not believe that where you keep your vehicle can be classed as a garage, you will not be able to make a valid claim. Please check 
with us if you are unsure.
MCE showed Mr H accessed an email it sent shortly after the sale which also included the 
section Are you sure your vehicle is garaged?. Policies allow a 14-day free cancellation 
period precisely to allow consumers time to check/correct important information or change 
their mind if on reflection the terms and conditions dont meet their demands and needs. The 
duty of reasonable care doesnt end immediately after leaving the price comparison website.
I accepted it might be too much to expect a policyholder to read the detailed terms and 
conditions. But I said that is why the regulator requires insurers to provide consumer 
policyholders with accessible, easy-to-read summaries such as the one MCE sent to Mr H. It 
seemed to me that not reading even this did amount to recklessness. I also considered this 
key here, because it seemed Mr H had to select a best option out of the those provided for 
overnight storage. He shouldve been aware that his storage cupboard isnt a typical 
garage. So this is further reason why I thought not checking the summary was reckless.
Ultimately, I considered MCE entered into a contract with Mr H based on incorrect 
information. And he ought to have known, and was provided with enough information to 
know or at least check, that his storage facility wouldnt have been classed as a locked 
garage, as represented at proposal. So, I thought it would be unfair to classify this as 
careless. It therefore follows that MCE was entitled to void the policy and reject the claim. 
And in such circumstances, CIDRA allows the insurer to retain the premium. So I considered 
MCE had acted fairly.
I acknowledged Mr H also previously claimed on his insurance with MCE for another incident 
and it didn't re-visit his answers when he claimed at that time. However motor insurance is 
renewed annually. And I didn't consider it was unreasonable for MCE to have looked at and 
checked the details Mr H provided when processing this claim - especially as this was a 
second claim for him.
MCE didnt provide any further comments in response to my provisional decision. Mr H 
disagreed and said:
He answered everything to the best of his ability and with the limited information 
MCE made available at the time of taking out the policy. In his opinion, where he 
stores his bike is more secure than what MCE define as a garage as it has a stronger 
door and more secure lock. Hed like to know if MCE would uphold a claim if it was a 
shared garage which fitted its description of one.
Its unfair Ive reached this decision because of the small print that was missed, and 
an email being sent that he doesnt remember opening and reading. He considers 
MCE shouldve called him at the time of purchase to discuss the garage definition.
He doesnt understand why this is considered as a second claim when the previous 
claim was made on the third partys insurance policy as he wasnt at fault. At that 
time, MCE wasnt concerned about where he stored his bike. 
Hed like MCE to remove the write-off category from his bike as if it wasnt insured it 
cant be an insurance write-off. Mr H would also like MCE to refund the premiums 
paid as he wasnt reckless.
 
Mr H also sent us two videos of where he kept his bike overnight. He explained hed sent 
these to MCE along with the pictures of the storage room when they were requested. The 
videos show that not only is the storage room lockable with a key, but that its also located in 
a gated area which requires a key to gain access.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr Hs response to my provisional decision. Having watched the 
videos hes provided, I accept the storage room can be locked. And so I do appreciate why 
he selected locked garage as the closest option to his situation on the comparison website. 
But the fact remains it isnt actually a garage, its a storage cupboard that can be locked, but 
also can be accessed by other people. And MCE did provide Mr H with a specific definition 
of garage in the policy terms and conditions, and the key facts document, which he had 
access to before he purchased the policy and during his cooling off period.
Mr Hs locked storage room doesnt meet MCEs definition  its not his private property. 
I know he feels his bike storage location is more secure than a garage as defined under the 
policy terms. But I dont agree, as Mr H is relying on other residents to ensure his bike does 
remain in a locked area. And, in any event, the policy terms form the basis of the contract 
between him and MCE. So it remains there was a qualifying misrepresentation, which, 
considering the information MCE gave him, I still find to be reckless. And so MCE is entitled 
to retain the premiums hes paid and I wont be asking it to refund these.
In relation to Mr Hs question about what MCE would do if it was a shared garage that fits 
there [sic] description of one. I think it would have to be quite a unique situation for there to 
be a lockable shared garage that could meet the definition of your private property. But in 
any event, Im deciding Mr Hs case, not hypothetical claims situations.
Mr H has said the policy definition of garage was small print, but again I disagree. One of the 
reasons Key Facts documents are now required is to prevent the problem of small print. 
Theyre a short document that contains the key information you need to read. And in this 
case the document has a separate section about the definition of a garage, in clear font. Id 
also add that Mr H had to tick to confirm hed read and accepted the important policy 
information and the terms and conditions before he purchased the policy.
Mr H feels MCE should have followed up his application with a phone call if the garage 
definition was that significant. But Im satisfied it was made clear from the documentation he 
was issued that this was important to MCE. And MCE did send a follow-up email to Mr H 
about this, which it has shown he opened. Ultimately as Mr H is taking out this cover and 
MCE provided him with what he needed to understand its definition, it is his responsibility to 
read this information and check hes taken out the policy correctly  after all, he is the one 
who wants to be covered.
In relation to this being a second claim, Mr H states he wasnt at fault during the previous 
incident. But that doesnt mean a claim isnt recorded on Mr Hs insurance policy, it just 
shows as a non-fault claim. Ive previously explained why I dont find it unreasonable for 
MCE to have wanted to check details provided by Mr H when processing the second claim. 
And just because it didnt check this previously doesnt mean it wasnt entitled to also have 
done this when he notified them of the previous incident.
Mr H has asked for the write-off category to be removed as he feels this shouldnt have 
happened if MCE is saying his bike wasnt insured. Mr Hs bike was recovered and 
inspected while the claim was still being processed. I dont think it was unreasonable for 
MCE to have started looking at the bike while it was still making enquiries about where Mr H 
stored it. And it has a duty to quickly and accurately report a write-off category under the 
Code of practice for the categorisation of motor vehicle salvage (September 2017). This 
says all recovered vehicles must be notified to Motor Insurance Anti-Fraud Theft Register 
(MIAFTR) and this record must not be deleted.The decision to void the policy happened after MCE concluded the bike was a write-off and 
had reported this to MIAFTR. Given the circumstances, I dont think MCE needs to take any 
further action. It should follow the code, so it needed to report this as soon as reasonably 
practical and now cant delete the record. So Im not asking MCE to do anything more. As 
this is now a historical record, Mr H should contact MIAFTR and/or the DVLA if he wants to 
discuss having the record amended/removed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to either 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman