DRN-3780168
The complaint
Ms C complains about AXA Insurance Plcs (AXA) handling of a claim made under her 
buildings insurance policy.
Any references to AXA include its agents. 
What happened
In June 2021, Ms C noticed some cracking in the home she had moved into with her mother. 
Ms C contacted AXA, sending photos to support her claim. AXA sent a loss adjuster out to 
inspect Ms Cs home. It was discovered subsidence was impacting Ms Cs garage, and the 
cause of it was a problem with the drains. Ms C says it took a long time for her to be given 
an answer, and she was often left having to make contact to find out what happening. Ms C 
says after she thought the claim had been accepted, she was told needed to pay for the for 
some remedial works for the drains.
 
However, shortly after this, Ms C was told the claim wouldnt be accepted. She was told this 
was because the information available suggested the subsidence predated the start date of 
her insurance policy. AXA quoted one of the policy terms which said policyholders needed to 
maintain property in a good state of repair. AXA offered Ms C £150 for any confusion 
caused. 
Ms C was unhappy with this and referred her complaint to this service. It was considered by 
one of our investigators who initially said she thought AXA should determine which elements 
of subsidence had occurred before the policy began, and which had occurred since the 
policy started in 2018.
AXA disagreed. It said the property was still experiencing subsidence because nothing was 
done to investigate or stop movement before the policy began. It clarified it only considered 
the garage was impacted by subsidence, not the house. Our investigator concluded the 
fairest outcome was for AXA to cover the subsidence in the garage that occurred since the 
start of the policy. But she didnt think the damage in the house should be covered by the 
claim. Neither side agreed, so this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the first instance, Ive considered whether AXA has acted fairly in the finding it made 
about the house. I think it has and Ill set out why. 
It seems from the technical report dated July 2021 that in the property there is historic 
evidence of roof spread. This finding is based on online images of the property, which 
indicate the roof spread has been occurring for several years. The loss adjuster concluded 
this contributed to the cracking in the front bedroom. On the first floor the loss adjuster 
concluded the reason for the cracking was from the bay settling onto the head of the ground 
floor window and differential movement of walls. 
However, the overall finding of the report was none of the movement in the house could be 
identified as downward movement. And the key issue here is all the damage to the house is 
noted as being non-insured defect, with damage to the front bedroom being caused by roof 
spread, first floor by replacement window and lack of maintenance or age-related 
deterioration. 
In declining this part of the claim, AXA is relying on following terms:
You and your family mustmaintain your property in a good state of repair. 
If following a claim we identify that you have not maintained your property in a good 
state of repair it may result in any relevant claims being reduced or refused.
Im satisfied the report shows the damage to the house isnt caused by subsidence. The 
report sets out the cracking is caused by a number of different things, none of which are 
insured defects, including subsidence. I havent been provided with any other evidence 
which leads me to conclude the report isnt accurate. Im not going to require AXA to take 
any action in relation to the cracking in the house. 
Ill turn now to the garage. Its accepted the garage is experiencing subsidence. And the 
cause of the subsidence is the drains running near the property. The issue for me to decide 
is whether AXA acted fairly in declining the claim on the basis the damage to the garage 
occurred before the policy began.
The conclusion reached by AXAs loss adjuster is the garage has been suffering from 
subsidence for a long time. This was supported by the reference to old repointing repairs 
which had reopened, and evidence of longstanding crack damage which had previously 
been repaired. And the evidence of cracking is supported by numerous photos. However, 
neither the report nor photos set out which of the subsidence damage occurred before the 
policy started in 2018. 
While Ms C doesnt feel a subsidence claim can be solely decision on photographs, this isnt 
what AXA has relied on. However, the photographs have contributed to the findings AXA 
made as they do support the conclusion the garage has been moving for a number of years. 
The loss adjuster clearly set out in their report the reopening of the cracks in the garage 
indicate it is still moving. So, it is clear and accepted the garage has suffered subsidence 
related damage in the past and has continued to do so during the time Ms Cs policy has 
been in force. 
Our general position here is where damage occurs during the policy, the insurer should be 
responsible for repairing it. As its accepted the garage has continued to move since the 
policy began in 2018 (evidenced by the reopening of the cracks) I agree with the conclusion 
reached by our investigator. 
To put things right, AXA should carry out repairs to the garage, where subsidence has 
caused damage since the policy began in 2018. If AXA considers its unable to carry out a 
lasting and effective repair on those areas damaged since the start of the property, then it 
will need to carry out repairs to other areas of the garage that have been affected by 
subsidence.
Ms C was told what repairs to the drainage system needed to be carried out. But in October 
2021, I dont agree she was told that these repairs would be covered as part of the claim. It was clear from the letter loss adjuster sent, in which they shared the findings of the drainage 
specialist, which repairs were needed. But this letter also said AXA hadnt decided on liability 
at that point. Its accepted the escape of water was the likely cause of the subsidence. So, 
AXA should also consider carrying out repairs to the drainage system as part of my direction 
to carry out repairs to the subsidence that occurred since the policy began. If Ms C has had 
the drainage repairs carried out, AXA should consider reimbursing her these costs, along 
with simple interest at 8% upon Ms C sending the invoices showing her costs. 
In the final response, AXA offered Ms C £150 in recognition of the confusion experienced. I 
can see this hasnt been a straightforward claim, so its not unusual here it took time for the 
outcome of the claim to be decided. And against the background of this, Ms Cs mother was 
unwell and passed away. I was very sorry to read this. And while I know this will undoubtedly 
made this experience more difficult for Ms C, I feel the compensation of £150 offered by AXA 
is a fair reflection for the worry experienced as a result of it wrongly declining all of her claim 
for subsidence. Im not going to require AXA to increase this amount. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance Plc to:
Repair any subsidence related damage to the garage that can be confirmed as 
having occurred since the start of the policy.
If AXA Insurance Plc considers its unable to carry out a lasting and effective repair 
on those areas damaged since the start of the property, then it will need to carry out 
repairs to other areas of the garage that have been affected by subsidence.
If Ms C has paid for the drainage system to be repaired, and these works should 
have been covered by AXA Insurance Plc, it should reimburse any costs upon the 
production of an invoice. Interest* should be added at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date this was paid by Ms C to the date of settlement. 
Pay Ms C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused if not 
already paid. 
*If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from any interest paid, it should tell Ms C how much its taken off. If requested, 
AXA should also provide Ms C with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so he can 
reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman