DRN-2919302
The complaint
Miss T complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited cancelled her car 
insurance policy and refused to pay her claim.
What happened
Miss T took out a car insurance policy through a broker. The insurer for the policy is Watford 
Insurance. In July 2020 Miss T changed her car and updated her policy with the new cars 
details. 
In January 2021 Miss T was involved in a collision with another car. The other driver fled the 
scene and Miss T says the police have advised her they had been banned from driving 
shortly before the incident. 
Miss T was injured in the incident and her car was declared a structural write off and not safe 
to be returned to the road. 
Watford said Miss Ts car had been modified: it had a rear spoiler, stickers, window air 
deflectors and a tinted roof. Watford said if it had known about the modifications when Miss 
T changed her car, it would have told her it could no longer provide cover as it didnt accept 
the modifications. 
Watford cancelled Miss Ts policy on 11 February 2021. It told her it wouldnt meet her claim. 
It said that as Miss T was a vulnerable customer, it wouldnt pursue her for any third party 
claim costs. 
Miss T brought her complaint to us. Watford told us it cancelled Miss Ts policy for making a 
careless qualifying misrepresentation. It said that it is in communication with the third party 
insurer and liability is in dispute. 
Our investigator thought Miss Ts complaint should be upheld. She contacted the 
manufacturer and established that two of the four modifications were standard on Miss Ts 
car as it was a sports model. It was a used car which Miss T bought online from a private 
seller. Our investigator thought Miss T had answered Watford Insurances question about 
modifications to the best of her knowledge and to what a reasonable consumer would have 
been aware of. Miss T believed all the modifications were standard on the sports model of 
her car.
Our investigator recommended Watford Insurance pay Miss T £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused her by its decision. And she recommended it settle her 
claim by paying the market value of her written off car. The investigator thought Watford 
Insurance should provide Miss T with a letter confirming her policy was cancelled in error to 
show to future insurers. 
Miss T accepted the investigators findings. 
Watford Insurance doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. It says the onus was on Miss T to check if the car had any modifications as she 
was buying a used car from a private seller. So it wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Watford Insurance thinks Miss T failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she changed her car in July 2020 and didnt disclose non-
manufacturer modifications. 
Ive looked at the question asked and the information provided by Watford Insurance and Im 
satisfied it asked a clear question about modifications. However, Im also satisfied that Miss 
T took reasonable care when answering the question. She has provided photos of the car 
from when she bought it online in July 2020. This shows the modifications. However, the 
model Miss T bought was a sports model and so it was different to the standard model. 
Watford Insurance has shown us that its underwriters wouldnt have accepted the  
modifications highlighted by the engineer who inspected Miss Ts car after the incident. 
However, when our investigator checked with the manufacturer, two of the four modifications 
listed by Watford as unacceptable came as standard for the model of Miss Ts car. In line 
with CIDRA, when we look at cases about modification and buying a used car, we consider 
what would be a reasonable level of care for that consumer in the circumstances when 
answering a modification question posed by the insurer. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think a qualifying misrepresentation took place as I 
think Miss T took reasonable care when answering the question about modifications to her 
car to the nest of her knowledge. And therefore I think the actions taken by Watford 
Insurance in cancelling Miss Ts policy for careless misrepresentation and refusing her claim 
were unreasonable. 
So I agree with the investigators recommendations to put things right. I think Watford 
Insurances decision to cancel Miss Ts policy and not meet her claim understandably 
caused some distress and inconvenience. For this I think Watford Insurance should pay Miss 
T £100 compensation. And it should meet Miss Ts claim as Ive set out below. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ts complaint. I require Watford 
Insurance Company Europe Limited to do the following:
Deal with Miss Ts claim in full and in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy it cancelled in error and pay the market value for her car. 
Watford Insurance should pay interest on the settlement sum it pays (minus any 
outstanding premium or excess) from the date of the incident to the date it pays 
Miss T at a rate of 8% simple interest. 
Remove any record of the cancellation from external databases.
Provide Miss T with a letter confirming the cancellation was done in error.
Pay Miss T £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Miss T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss T how much its taken 
off. It should also give Miss T a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman