DRN-4414199
The complaint
Mr O complains, as the sole director of A Ltd, that The Access Bank UK Limited restricted 
access to As account and closed it with immediate effect. A would like compensation for the 
impact caused. 
What happened
A had an account with Access Bank. 
On 13 September 2021 Mr O contacted Access Bank to discuss a transaction of 150,000 
dollars which entered As account. On 14 September 2021 Mr O asked to transfer 100,000 
dollars to another account. 
On the same day Access Bank asked Mr O As role in receiving the funds and sending 
100,000 dollars on. Mr O explained that A acts as a procurement and supply consultant and 
they were asked to source a supplier for a company Ill call E. A were also asked whether 
they could help E in sourcing investment funds  which A successfully found. And led to the 
funds being transferred into their account  and A asking to move them on to pass to E. 
Mr O provided several documents to Access Bank, including a copy of the contract between 
A and E, and an investment agreement. 
On 15 September 2021 Access Bank restricted As account. And on 15 October 2021 they 
sent a letter to Mr O informing him that As account had been closed with immediate effect. 
Mr O complained, but A thought theyd acted fairly in restricting and closing As account.
One of our investigators looked into As complaint, but didnt think Access Bank needed to 
do anything further. 
Mr O didnt agree, in summary he said:
Access Banks actions caused him severe distress
He informed them two weeks prior to the block about the new contract
The review should have been completed within seven days
He agrees they can close As facilities but should have given a notice period
As Mr O didnt agree its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr O and 
Access Bank have said before reaching my decision.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Access 
Bank has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential.
Access Bank are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal 
and regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened I 
appreciate why Mr O may have found this inconvenient, but Access Bank must ensure they 
keep their due diligence checks updated at all times. It is however important that these 
reviews are completely in a timely manner. Mr O argues that reviews should be actioned in 
seven days. I realise this will disappoint Mr O, but having reviewed all the evidence I cant 
say the length of time Access Bank took to complete the review was unfair. Im satisfied they 
completed the review as quickly as Id expect. 
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason 
to the customer. Just the same as if A decided to stop banking with Access Bank, it wouldnt 
have to explain why. Ive thought about whether or not Access Bank have followed the terms 
and conditions of the account when closing it with immediate effect. I realise this will frustrate 
Mr O, but from the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied Access Bank acted fairly in not providing 
notice to A. 
I understand that this will disappoint Mr O, and I appreciate A experienced inconvenience, 
however as I havent concluded that Access Bank acted unfairly in blocking or closing As 
account I cant consider any impact caused to A.  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman