DRN-2888762
The complaint
Mr K complains of poor customer service regarding his application to manually switch over 
his bank account to Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
Mr K attempted to switch his existing current account to Nationwide. As his bank wasnt 
signed up to the current account switch service he completed a form to manually switch his 
current account to Nationwide. Mr K says his first application form was rejected because of 
an unacceptable date on the application. So he made a second application. As he had not 
heard back from Nationwide he enquired what was happening with his application, but he 
was told by Nationwide branch staff that they had no record of the second application on 
their systems. Mr K complained to Nationwide.
Nationwide upheld Mr Ks complaint. They said that there was no switch date on his original 
application form and this is why it was rejected. They said his second application was only 
added to the system a week after he enquired about it in the branch and thats why the 
branch staff had no record of it. Nationwide said they were unsure why it had only been 
added to their systems on 9 December 2020. They also said they were unable to process his 
second application as his existing bank doesnt have the process in place to help with the 
transfer. They offered to pay Mr K £75 for the poor customer experience he received.
Nationwide later wrote to Mr K and increased their offer to £100 due to the issues he 
encountered. They explained that Mr Ks bank didnt have processes in place to complete 
even a manual switch to his Nationwide account. Mr K responded to Nationwide that he 
wanted £208 compensation. Mr K brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator felt that the £100 Nationwide offered Mr K was a fair offer that reflects the 
additional visit to the branch, the error with checking his initial form and the delay after he 
submitted the second form. Mr K wanted an Ombudsman to review his complaint. Mr K said 
he had looked at a similar complaint that awarded a higher amount of compensation and 
questioned why Nationwide would encourage him to approach our service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has made a number of points to both Nationwide and this service and Ive considered 
and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here.
Ill start by being clear to Mr K that I have conducted an impartial investigation into what has 
happened. I know hes highlighted a compensation award of another complaint to our 
investigator. But I can only look at the merits of his complaint when assessing whether the 
compensation Nationwide has offered is fair and reasonable. Mr K has also asked why 
Nationwide have encouraged him to approach our service. It may help if I explain to Mr K 
that when a business issues a final response letter to a complainant, then they must give 
referral rights to our service. This is a requirement from the regulator that they must do so.
All parties agree that Mr K was inconvenienced here. His second application was delayed 
without an explanation and he had a poor experience with the branch staff. And ultimately 
Nationwide werent able to facilitate a manual switch as Mr Ks existing bank did not have 
processes in place to help facilitate a manual switch.
So, what I would expect Nationwide to do here is to apologise for this, recognise the impact 
this would have on Mr K and explain the situation. Im satisfied that theyve done that here. I 
say that as they have apologised and acknowledged that they arent able to facilitate a 
manual switch. But they have explained the reasons for this. And when they couldnt explain 
why his second application was delayed, they have acknowledged this.
Next I would expect Nationwide to offer fair compensation Mr K for these issues. In their 
response letter to Mr K dated 14 December 2020 they offered Mr K £75 compensation. But 
on reflection of the complaint and taking into account all of the issues Mr K encountered, 
they increased their offer to £100. Im satisfied that this is a fair amount for the 
inconvenience Mr K has suffered.
I say that as had Nationwide not upheld Mr Ks complaint, the £100 that they offered would 
broadly be in line with what I would have awarded him for the inconvenience he suffered. Im 
persuaded that this level of compensation reflects the delays in processing his second 
application, the poor customer service he received and his experience with being unable to 
complete even a manual switch from his existing account.  So it follows that Nationwide 
should pay Mr K £100 for the inconvenience he has had.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay £100 to Mr K. But I wont be 
requiring them to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman