DRN-3746467
The complaint
Miss P complains that Unum Ltd unfairly declined her group income protection claim. 
What happened
Miss P had access to a group income protection policy through for a former employer. The 
policy was underwritten by Unum, and was designed to provide benefit after a deferred 
period of 26 weeks in the event of an employee becoming incapacitated by illness or injury.  
Miss P made a claim on this policy in 2021 and said she could not work because of anxiety 
and depression, but Unum said the available evidence failed to show that shed met the 
policys definition of incapacity. Unum accepted Miss P had a history of mental health 
difficulties. But it said the evidence throughout the deferred period indicated that her 
absence was actually linked to a specific situation at work (namely using the phones) and 
declined her claim. 
Miss P complained, and when Unum maintained its position she referred her complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened and said there was insufficient evidence of 
Miss Ps mental health preventing her from working throughout the deferred period. They 
also said there was considerable evidence of Miss P being unable to work because of issues 
she had with the phone aspect of her role too. So they didnt think the claim had been 
declined by Unum unreasonably. 
Miss P disagreed and said she was unsure why her anxiety and depression hadnt 
warranted a successful claim. She felt that her complaint should have been upheld, and so 
as no agreement was reached it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unum has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly and to not reject them 
unreasonably. The cover available to Miss P at the time of her claim was set out within the 
group policy terms and conditions. They explained benefit would be paid by Unum when:
 a member is incapacitated, was actively working on the day immediately prior to the start 
of the incapacity, and evidence has been provided to Unum which satisfies Unum of the 
incapacity
They also explained that incapacity or incapacitated was specifically defined as Unum 
being:
 satisfied the member is unable, by reason of his illness or injury, to perform the material 
and substantial duties of his insured occupation 
So it wouldnt be enough for the available evidence to just show that Miss P had a mental 
health condition. It would need to show that her mental health condition prevented her from 
performing the material and substantial duties of her insured occupation. And that it did so 
throughout a 26 week deferred period (2 September 2021 to 3 March 2022).
Without referring to every piece of evidence made available, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Unum to conclude that the above wasnt demonstrated for the reasons Ill 
now explain:
Miss Ps GP records show that she was in contact with her GP throughout the 
deferred period. However, the notes relating to her mental health during that time do 
highlight that she was having ongoing difficulties with the phone element of her role. 
They also set out she was having difficulties with her employer and union in relation 
to that element of her role. And that her mental health was being compounded by a 
work tribunal in relation to that specific element too. Although its not disputed that 
Miss P had a mental health condition, I dont think it was unreasonable of Unum to 
find that her absence appeared to relate to a work related matter as opposed to an 
incapacitating illness.
Miss Ps GP records show that she was signed off work by her doctor throughout the 
deferred period too, but that in itself doesnt demonstrate incapacity either. Theres 
limited detail within the GPs notes about the impact of Miss Ps mental health on her 
ability to perform the material and substantial duties of her role. Theres limited input 
from any specialist providers during the deferred period too. And as I noted above 
much of the impact on Miss P during that time frame appears to center on her having 
difficulties with the phone element of her role. 
As part of her income protection claim Miss P completed a claim form for Unum. One 
of the questions it asked was how her condition affected her ability to do her job. 
Miss P answered it by saying, My anxiety prevents me from telephone work. I end 
up crying having a meltdown and have panic attacks. I also can stutter and I dont 
understand social queues [sic] on the phone. So here, Miss P had also indicated 
that her absence was related to the phone element of her role and again I dont think 
Unums conclusions were unreasonable in view of this. 
An occupational health advisor met with Miss P a little under two months into the 
deferred period. The report they went on to issue following that meeting set out that 
they felt Miss P was medically unfit for work. However, the advisor also said that was 
only likely to be the case for the next six weeks and explained that a phased return 
was likely to be beneficial for Miss P. The advisor also highlighted that any prolonged 
absence may be related to Miss Ps non-medical barriers, In addition to the above, 
the employee has reported perceived workplace concerns which may present a non-
medical barrier to a return to work and delay recovery times. It is recommended that 
managers discuss these further steps with the employee.
I appreciate Miss P says she doesnt know what else she can provide to support her 
position, but I think it important to set out that the onus would have been on her to 
demonstrate incapacity in line with the relevant policy terms. Ill highlight once again 
that Miss P having a mental health condition isnt disputed here. But having 
considered all the available evidence and arguments I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Unum to find that incapacity had not been demonstrated on this 
occasion. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman