DRN-2215282
The complaint
Miss S complains Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans irresponsibly approved her as a 
guarantor for a loan taken out by a third party (the borrower). Miss S says the borrower 
pressured her into acting as the guarantor and Buddy Loans shouldve done more to prevent 
this. She also says Buddy Loans did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks, and 
had it done so it wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable to her.   
What happened
The borrower was approved for a £4,250 loan by Buddy Loans, which Miss S was accepted 
to act as the guarantor for. 
Miss S says the borrower pressured and coerced her into acting as the guarantor for the 
loan. Miss S says she was in a relationship with the borrower at the time of the application 
and he instructed Miss S on how to complete the application. Miss S also says the borrower 
completed the initial application for her. Miss S says she wasnt in a position to afford the 
repayments when they became due, and Buddy Loans ought to have known this from the 
outset. Miss S says proportionate checks werent completed on her.
I wrote to all parties sitting out my provisional decision. I asked all parties to respond with 
further comments for me to consider before issuing my final decision. My provisional findings 
were set out as below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good 
industry practice on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide 
Miss S complaint. Bearing in mind the dispute before me, I think that there are a 
number of overarching questions that I need to consider in order to fairly and 
reasonably determine Miss S complaint. These are:
1. Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that the borrower would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable 
way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that the borrower would have 
been able to do so?
2. Did Buddy Loans obtain Miss S properly informed consent before binding 
her to the guarantee and indemnity agreement?
3. Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss S 
to satisfy itself that she was in a position repay the loan in the event the 
borrower did not?
oIf so, did it make a fair decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Miss S would have been able 
to do so?
4. Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill deal with each in turn.
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
the borrower would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way?
Miss S says the borrower pressured her into acting as the guarantor for the loan. 
She says the borrower stopped making payments after their relationship ended; 
and he did so as a form of punishment to her.
Buddy Loans hasnt provided us any information in relation to the borrower checks. 
It says it completed the necessary checks before lending to the borrower.
Ive not been presented with any information from either party that suggest the 
borrower wasnt able to afford the repayments. It seems from Miss Ss testimony 
that the borrower has chosen not to make payments rather than not being able to 
make them. In the absence of any persuasive information Im unable to make a 
definitive on the issue, and as such I cannot say Buddy Loans acted unfairly in this 
respect.
Did Buddy Loans obtain Miss S properly informed consent before binding her to the
guarantee and indemnity agreement?
This is one of Miss S main causes for complaint. Miss S says the borrower 
pressured her into agreeing to becoming the guarantor for the loan. She says the 
borrower completed the online application form; and told her how to answer 
specific questions Buddy Loans asked. Miss S has also confirmed she agreed to 
act as a guarantor for a separate loan from a different lender for the same 
borrower around the same time as they had applied for the Buddy Loans loan.
Buddy Loans says it had no reason to believe Miss S was being coerced or 
pressured into acting as the guarantor for the loan. It has provided us with the 
telephone call recordings it had with Miss S as evidence for this argument. It also 
says Miss S was asked if she was being pressured, and if she was acting as a 
guarantor for any other loans and Miss S answered both questions no. Buddy 
Loans also says it sent Miss S the pre-contract information which explained the 
roles and responsibilities as well as the amount Miss S was agreeing to guarantee. 
It says Miss S had confirmed she had received and read this information before 
being bound by the agreement.
Ill start by saying that Im sorry to hear about the experience Miss S suffered. I 
appreciate the matter is sensitive and is causing her continued distress to this day. 
Id like to assure her Ive taken her evidence and arguments very seriously, and 
carefully considered the information weve been provided so far.
Turning to Miss S concerns of coercion and pressure. I need to consider whether 
on balance Miss S was being coerced into applying to act as a guarantor at the 
time of the application. In order to make this finding I need to consider a number of issues. One of those will be if there were relevant indications to the responsible 
financial business consumer was being pressured or coerced into taking out 
financial products.
This extends to more than just asking a consumer a direct question (although that 
is relevant); and should be considered in the context of all of the interactions a 
business has with its consumers.
In addition to this, it is also not enough to simply ask if the business was aware of 
the coercion. I also need to consider if there was evidence of coercion which even 
the business was unaware of. That is because if there is evidence of coercion, 
and I was satisfied on balance that Miss S did not enter freely into the agreement 
(regardless of whether the business knew or not), it may be unfair to hold Miss S 
liable for an agreement she did not freely consent too.
In this instance we have testimony from Miss S, the telephone recordings between 
Miss S and Buddy Loans as well as the application details Miss S says were 
completed by the borrower.
Miss S says at the time of the application for this loan the borrower was already 
exhibiting abusive and coercive behaviour. She says the borrower had already 
borrowed a significant amount of money from her at this point in time; and if she 
agreed to be the guarantor, he would pay the money back. Miss S also says the 
borrower threatened to harm himself should she not act as the guarantor for this 
loan. Miss S accepts that she does not sound pressurised or coerced in the calls 
with Buddy Loans but says this doesnt mean the coercion didnt exist at that time. 
Miss S hasnt been able to provide further information (outside of her 
recollections) from the time of the application but has given our service copies of 
Police crime reference numbers for events which happened after the loan was 
taken out. She says the abuse at that time was dealt with privately and she has 
since deleted the messages between herself and the borrower.
Ive carefully considered Miss S testimony but Im not satisfied on balance that 
there is sufficient evidence of the coercion taking place at the time of the 
application; and that Buddy Loans ought to have been aware of it. I appreciate this 
will come as a disappointment to Miss S, but I can assure her Ive considered her 
information thoroughly. Whilst there is a lot of information Miss S has supplied, Im 
not persuaded on balance this demonstrates the coercion occurred at the time of 
the guarantee being given. From the evidence it appears on balance as if the 
abuse started after the loan was taken out (and Ill go on to address that
later).
When coming to this finding, I find the calls Miss S had with Buddy Loans 
persuasive. Ive listened to the pre-application calls Miss S has had with Buddy 
Loans  there are multiple calls. These calls cover Miss S understanding of the 
responsibilities of the loan; the detail of the loan and an affordability assessment 
call. There is also a call in which, Miss S asks for help in uploading her relevant 
payslips and documentation to Buddy Loans.
When listening to these calls Miss S does not sound in distress or as if she is 
being fed answers to questions  but that is something which Miss S accepts. 
During these calls, Miss S is asked if she is being pressured or acting as a 
guarantor for anyone else and she replies no to both. Ive explained above that a 
direct question alone is not necessarily enough; but it does seem consistent with 
the evidence Miss S has provided.Miss S also says the borrower completed the online application form for her; and as 
such fed the answers which were most likely to help them get the loan. I find it 
persuasive in this instance that Miss S and Buddy Loans had a detailed income 
and expenditure assessment call. In this call Buddy Loans agent goes through a 
long list of questions regarding Miss S regular outgoings, and she answers them 
seemingly honestly and of her own volition. The reason why I find this call 
persuasive is because the application form which wouldve been completed covers 
amongst other things these types of questions. And as Miss S is heard to confirm 
the details, Im persuaded there wasnt any indication the initial application was 
completed by a third party. I also note that Miss S had a call with Buddy Loans 
about uploading her payslips which again would suggest she was aware of the 
application and was attempting to complete the process.
Our investigator made reference to Miss S incorrectly answering questions on one 
of the calls about the loan amount and term as potential indicator of pressure. Ive 
considered this argument too, but Im not persuaded by it. I think the context of 
Miss S acting as a guarantor for the borrowers other loan is important information 
here. This is because the answers Miss S gives to Buddy Loans are the details for 
this other loan not the Buddy Loan one. When considered in this context it is more 
likely in my opinion, Miss S was understandably confused between the two 
different providers. At this point Buddy Loans was unaware she was acting as a 
guarantor and had no reason to believe she was either, so I dont find these 
incorrect answers to be a sufficient indicator of potential coercion or pressure.
Miss S has not raised a separate complaint about informed consent, but it could be 
argued this is implied with her complaint of pressure as she may not have 
knowingly consented to being a guarantor including the various responsibilities and 
liabilities of the role. So, for completeness Ive considered this too.
Ive considered if Miss S was unaware of the role and liabilities she was entering 
into; and if Buddy loans had met its relevant obligations. Having done so Im 
satisfied that Buddy Loans had.
I note that Miss S was sent the relevant pre-contractual information ahead of the 
calls she had with Buddy Loans. This information contained the relevant 
information about the loan she was agreeing to guarantee and the liabilities she 
would have should the borrower not make any payments. This method is again 
common, and as such I dont think it is particularly unusual here. I also note that 
Miss S was asked if she has received the documentation in a call and she replies 
yes. She is given the opportunity to ask any questions, and she does not raise 
any concerns. I also note that in those pre-pay out calls Miss S introduces herself 
as the guarantor for the loan. So, Im satisfied she was aware of the role she was 
agreeing too, as well as the responsibilities of being a guarantor.
So overall, whilst Im sorry to hear of Miss S experience, Im currently minded to 
say Buddy Loans did enough to obtain Miss S consent to approve her as a 
guarantor. And based on the information Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded on 
balance Miss S was coerced into acting as a guarantor at the time of the 
application.
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss S to 
satisfy itself that she was in a position repay the loan in the event the borrower did 
not?The regulations which applied at the time, required Buddy Loans to carry out an 
assessment on whether Miss S could repay any loan in a sustainable way in the 
event she was required to make payments. These checks are referred to as an 
affordability assessment or an affordability check.
This means Buddy Loans needed to consider if any repayments Miss S may be 
required to make would cause her any financial difficulties or have any adverse 
consequences on her finances. The checks also needed to be proportionate to 
the specific circumstances of the loan which was being approved.
The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to complete for them to 
be reasonable and proportionate. But these checks needed to be proportionate to 
the amount of credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of 
repayments and total length of the term.
It is also not sufficient for Buddy Loans to just complete proportionate checks. It 
also needs to consider the information it is provided with and make a fair lending 
decision.
Buddy Loans says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks. It says it 
completed a detailed income and expenditure check on Miss S, which included 
verifying her income with copies of her payslips. It also completed a credit file 
search which showed that she had existing active credit. In particular that she had 
two current accounts (one with an arranged overdraft), a credit card with around 
£1,200 on it, and an existing unsecured loan. It says it was aware of these 
commitments and asked Miss S about them in her assessment call. It says it 
factored in these expenses as well as those which she disclosed in the call to 
calculate her disposable income. Having done so, it says Miss S was likely to have 
over £600 disposable income per month making the loan affordable should she be 
required to make payments. It says these checks combined are proportionate.
Miss S says the loan was unaffordable and had further checks been conducted 
Buddy Loans wouldve seen it was. She says Buddy Loans should have completed 
further checks to get a better understanding of her financial circumstances.
Ive carefully considered both arguments and based on what Ive seen so far, Im 
minded to say Buddy Loans completed proportionate checks in this instance. I 
say this because it has demonstrated that it completed a detailed income and 
expenditure assessment, and it verified Miss S income with copies of her 
payslips.
The expenses assessment Buddy Loans completed was informed initially by the 
credit search which it completed. As mentioned above this showed Miss S did have 
active credit, including and overdraft, credit card and unsecured loan. However, her 
recent history showed she was managing these commitments reasonably well, and 
Buddy Loans factored these payments into the affordability assessment. It also 
sought to gather information about her non-credit commitments such as insurance, 
food, travel and other essential spending. It gathered these over the telephone and 
compared this to the information it had been supplied. This didnt appear to 
contradict any of the information Buddy Loans had, and so Im persuaded it was 
reasonable for Buddy Loans to rely on it. Whilst itself not a definitive piece of 
information, I also note Miss S confirmed the monthly disposable income was 
accurate in the call.Im aware Miss S was also agreeing to be a guarantor for the borrower at the same 
time on a different loan. I think it is important to highlight this information would not 
have shown on Miss S credit file and as such I dont think its unreasonable that 
Buddy Loans didnt factor this into her potential monthly outgoings either.
So for these reasons, Im currently minded to say Buddy Loans checks were 
proportionate in this instance. And as these showed the repayments would be 
affordable to Miss S should she be required to make them, Im satisfied its decision 
to lend was reasonable.
If not, would further checks have shown that Miss S would have been able to make
payments in the event she required to do so?
Whilst Im currently minded to say the checks Buddy Loans completed were 
proportionate; Ive also considered if further checks wouldve shown the loan was 
likely affordable to Miss S in the event she was required to make payments.
Miss S has provided our service with copies of her accounts bank statements. If I 
were to argue Buddy Loans needed to conduct further checks, considering it 
already had payslips, I think it is likely it wouldve asked for evidence such as Miss 
S bank statements. So I think it is reasonable to place weight on this information.
Looking through these statements it shows that Miss Ss is managing her money 
to a budget, but that she is managing her finances reasonably well. For example, I 
can see that she has a mixture of essential and non-essential expenditure on her 
transactions. I can see that her balance is generally in the positive, and that she is 
able to transfer money between accounts to balance her finances. The 
statements dont seem to suggest she is struggling financially or that the 
information she has previously given to Buddy Loans is inaccurate.
It is worth commenting that when considering this information, Im considering if 
Buddy Loans was given the same information at the time leading up to the loan, it 
wouldve still decided to lend. And based on what these statements show, I think it 
wouldve. This is because the statements corroborate Miss S payslip stated 
income, and dont show signs of financial hardship. They also dont show anything 
contradictory to the information which Miss S had previously disclosed to Buddy 
Loans, which would make them question its decision to lend. So, on balance, Im 
minded to say it wouldve still lent, and it wouldve been reasonable for it to do so.
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly in any other way?
Although Im persuaded on balance Miss S was not coerced into taking the 
guarantee out, I am satisfied on balance that there is later evidence of the 
relationship becoming abusive.
Ive explained above that Miss S has given us testimony that her relationship with 
the borrower deteriorated. Miss S has explained the borrower was arrested by 
Police officers, as well as being reported to the Police for a number of different 
offenses when Miss S ended their relationship. She says she has had to block the 
borrower from communicating with her. She also says the borrower refused to 
make payments to the loan as a punishment to her for ending their relationship. In 
support of this Miss S has provided us with police crime references and details.When considering this information, Im satisfied Buddy Loans shouldve done more 
to help Miss S when she first made it aware of her situation and in particular the 
abuse she was receiving from the borrower.
From the file it seems Miss S made Buddy Loans aware of the situation in August 
2019. Ive listened to the call Miss S had with Buddy Loans agents at that time. She 
explained to Buddy Loans she was being forced to make the payments and that the 
borrower was refusing to do so as a punishment to her. She also says he has told 
her he wont make payments going forward.
It is not clear from this point in time what if anything Buddy Loans did to pursue the 
borrower for the payments. Buddy Loans says it will continue the collection process 
on both Miss S and the borrower; but it appears as if Miss S was making the 
payments going forward not the borrower.
Im persuaded that Buddy Loans shouldve done more to prevent Miss S from 
making payments; and couldve done more to get evidence of Miss S situation at 
the time. Buddy Loans seemingly just pointed Miss S in the direction of debt 
charities; and offered her a 14- day holding period on her account. Miss S is clearly 
distressed in the call; and has explained the situation. That would appear to be 
consistent with the fact the account had fallen into arrears at this point in time.
Im satisfied had Buddy Loans done more at this point it wouldve likely uncovered 
the situation Miss S has explained; and had the opportunity to get evidence such 
as the Police reports, and abusive messages. Im satisfied had it done this it 
wouldve likely realised Miss S was being unfairly forced into making the payments 
and shouldve removed her from the account. As it didnt do this, Miss S continued 
to make payments in a situation in which it wasnt reasonable for her to do so; 
Buddy Loans acted unfairly at that point going forward.
Miss S responded to my provisional decision accepting the outcome. Buddy Loans did not 
respond, and it has now passed the date for further submissions. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I see no reason to differ from my provisional decision, and as such I uphold 
Miss Ss complaint in part. This is for the reasons set out in my provisional decision but in 
particular Im satisfied on balance that Buddy Loans ought to have done more once it was 
made aware of the abuse by Miss S. As it didnt do this, Miss S continued to make payments 
in a situation in which it wasnt reasonable for her to do so.
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans to:
Remove Miss S from any obligations she has under the Guaranty and  
Indemnity agreement, and then terminate it;
Refund the payments Miss S made from August 2019 onwards including the 
settlement of the loan; with 8% interest calculated from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement; 
Remove any negative information in relation to this loan on Miss S credit file.HM Revenue and Customs requires Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans to take off 
tax from this interest. Buddy Loans must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax
its taken off it if Miss S asks for one.  
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Advancis Limited trading as Buddy 
Loans in part.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman