DRN-2533310
The complaint
Ms F complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc acted unfairly in its pricing of her home 
insurance policy. All references to St Andrews include its agents.
What happened
Ms F purchased a home insurance policy through a bank in around 1996. It renewed each 
year until 2019, when cover ended. Whilst the bank sold the policy, a different business 
underwrote it. The underwriter was responsible for setting the premium. From 1996 to 2002, 
a different insurer to the one referred to in this decision underwrote the policy. St Andrews 
took over in 2002, and continued to provide cover until 2019.
The cost of the policy in 2002 was roughly £150 and it increased annually until it reached 
roughly £750 in 2018 (the last premium Ms F paid before cancelling). Ms Fs renewal quote 
in 2019 was substantially lower than what shed paid the previous year  and she said it was 
this, along with talking to family and friends that led her to believe shed been overpaying for 
her insurance. So, she made a complaint. 
In response to her complaint, St Andrews refunded a portion of the premiums Ms F paid.
It paid around £1,350 in refunded premiums plus 8% simple interest per year and £100 in 
compensation. The refund was backdated to premiums paid from 2006 onwards. 
Ms F complained to our service, because she felt the refund should be higher. Ms F said she 
should be refunded the difference between what she paid, and the discounted price charged 
to new customers for the same deal. And, that the refund should be backdated to the second 
year of her policy. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They thought St Andrews had already made a 
fair offer. They said it was reasonable for the refund calculation to start from a few years into 
the policy, because thats the point St Andrews ought to have realised Ms F wasnt shopping 
around or negotiating the price of her policy at renewal. They explained our approach allows 
for inflation in line with consumer price index (CPI) data. And that the online quotes Ms F 
presented were likely to include discounts to attract new customers. 
Ms F remained unhappy and said that, compared to the actual cost, she considered shed 
overpaid on her policy by more than £3,000. She said she wasnt happy that the calculations 
which form the basis of St Andrews offer of redress havent been disclosed to her. I need to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F brought a separate complaint about the previous underwriter. I understand she wanted 
everything looked at together. But put simply, we must look at complaints separately against 
different businesses. There will usually be different considerations given underwriters have 
their own approaches to setting the price of their policies. And for decisions to be legally 
binding (if accepted) they must be set up against one, specific financial business. So, this 
decision will only address Ms Fs complaint about the premiums charged by St Andrews 
between 2002 and 2019.
Our service doesnt regulate the insurance industry, so it isnt my role to tell St Andrews how 
it should operate its business. Whilst I cant say how much it should charge for its policies, I 
can consider whether St Andrews applied its pricing policy fairly to Ms F.  
Some price increases are to be expected. Ms F made three successful claims on her policy 
and changed her policy details in 2012. All of these things can impact an insurers risk in 
providing cover, and an increased premium often just reflects an increased risk. 
Its agreed though that Ms F was inert. Her policy renewed each year from 2002 until she 
cancelled in 2019, and she didnt speak to or engage with St Andrews on the cost of her 
policy during that time. Ms Fs testimony is that she trusted the parties involved in her policy 
to give her a good deal and didnt think to question what she was paying. That is, until she 
noticed her renewal quote in 2019 was far lower than what shed paid the year before, and 
when friends and family suggested shed been overpaying. St Andrews didnt treat Ms F 
fairly because it continued to increase the cost of her policy over time, in large part simply 
because she wasnt engaging at each renewal. 
The point when price increases for an inert customer become unfair will vary from case to 
case. Here, I think the price increases became unfair from 2006. When St Andrews took 
over the policy in 2002, I havent seen any evidence to suggest it knew, or ought to have 
known, how much or how little Ms F had engaged with the previous insurer at each renewal. 
So, its reasonable that St Andrews wouldnt have realised Ms F was inert until shed been 
with them for a few years. Up to and including the premium paid in 2005, St Andrews has 
explained that the cost of the policy increased in line with its general approach to pricing.
Ms F is unhappy that she isnt able to see how the true cost of her policy is calculated. 
I understand her frustrations. But underwriting information about how premiums are 
calculated is commercially sensitive. The insurance industry is competitive, and it wouldnt 
be reasonable for us to disclose an insurers pricing model for all to see. I can, however, 
reassure Ms F that Ive seen how St Andrews has calculated her refund, and can provide 
her with some context for my findings that its done so fairly. 
St Andrews has refunded the difference in what Ms F paid for her policy from 2006 to 2013, 
against the premium she paid in 2005, allowing for inflation in line with the CPI. The CPI 
represents the changing costs of the market. A certain amount of inflation is to be expected 
when calculating the cost of insurance. From 2014 to 2018, St Andrews has refunded Ms F 
the difference in what she paid for her policy and what she should have paid based on a 
model its applied since 2014 to ensure inert customers arent disadvantaged. Ive checked 
the refunds applied before and after 2014. Im satisfied theyve been calculated correctly. 
I understand Ms F feels her refund should be based on the cost of a new insurance policy. 
Insurers are entitled to offer a discount to new customers to entice them. That introductory 
discount doesnt also have to be applied to its current customers. How insurers price their 
policies and the way they calculate risk also differs, and will have changed over the years. 
So, the price Ms F found when searching for a new quote isnt a reliable indicator of the price 
St Andrews should have charged her in 2002 or subsequently. St Andrews has paid £100 compensation for overcharging Ms F on her policy. Theres no 
doubt Ms F was left with less money as a result of paying higher premiums than she should 
have. But any overpaid premiums have since been returned and the 8% simple interest per 
year that St Andrews has paid on top of the refund compensates Ms F for not having use of 
this money over the years. 
I accept that not having the use of any overpaid premiums at the relevant time may also 
have caused Ms F some inconvenience. But comparing the period of time the premium 
refund relates to with the amount thats been overcharged, I think the impact that would have 
had is reflected in the compensation St Andrews has paid already. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman