DRN-3895337
The complaint
Mr R complains that Phoenix Life Limited cut the terminal bonus payable on his whole of life 
with-profits policy from over £2,000 in 2020, to zero in 2022.
What happened
Mr R took out a regular premium, with-profits whole of life policy in early 1978. I understand 
that Phoenix took over the management and administration of the policy in 2008.  
Mr R says regular annual bonuses on the policy stopped in 2001, but Mr R says he was told 
that the terminal bonus would compensate for the lack of annual bonuses. In August 2020 
Phoenix wrote to Mr R in response to a query he had raised, it said:
I can confirm that the current terminal bonus on the policy is £2,043.71. 
Mr R said: 
The surrender value at that date [August 2020] was confirmed as £6,050.03 and the 
combined policy value as £6,722.25. In their annual statements they always stated they had 
surplus money to increase the final bonus up to and including January 2021 (sent out May 
2021). Then in May 2022 they advised that although there was still surplus money, the final 
bonus for my policy was nil, and would remain so for the next 5 years
Mr R complained to Phoenix. It didnt uphold his complaint. It explained how a with-profits 
fund worked and said it was satisfied that the surrender value Mr R had received fairly 
reflected the experience of policies with the same entry year (1978) and maturity year. 
Mr R wasnt satisfied with the response he received from Phoenix and referred his complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator said she didnt think this service could uphold Mr Rs complaint. She 
explained that the terminal bonus wasnt guaranteed and can change from year to year.
Mr R remained unhappy that the terminal bonus had been reduced to zero and said,  it 
seems incredible that the whole of the terminal bonus should have disappeared due to 
market fluctuations. 
Mr R also provided this service with information he had gathered about the investment 
performance of the fund since 1978. He said he felt this information  suggests that the 
argument they make for declaring no regular bonuses from 2002 onwards when there were 
2 years of negative growth is far outweighed by positive growth in other years, and refutes 
absolutely the claim that 'it became apparent that the returns earned in the 1980's and 
1990's were not sustainable, and the fact that the terminal bonus was sustained until 2020 
adds to this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Rs position, and I appreciate why he wants to better understand how 
a policy that had been paid promptly since 1978, was supposedly with profits and with a 
company that had made profits over the lifetime of the policy could go from a value of 
£6,722.25 to £4,678.53 from May 2021 to May 2022 I understand that final bonuses are 
subject to market fluctuations, but to lose £2,000 in a profitable 12 months seems strange.
As Mr R is aware, his policy had a sum assured of £2,000 and this increased with the 
addition of annual bonuses, which once added couldnt be taken away (unless a market 
value adjustment was applied). However, there was no guarantee that a terminal bonus, 
would be paid on claim or surrender of his policy. 
As Phoenix explained to Mr R, whether a terminal bonus is paid and if so, how much it is 
depends on how well the fund has performed over the whole time the investment has been 
in place.
The aim of a with-profits fund is that the investors receive a fair share of the profits of the 
fund, and the amount of any bonus is at the fund managers discretion. This means that in 
good years, the fund manager can choose to keep some of the profits to help cover losses in 
bad years. This is often referred to as smoothing. 
Although bonuses are partly based on gains within the with-profits fund, its important to bear 
in mind that a with-profits fund doesnt work in the same way as other investment funds. The 
amount of the bonus is not an equal proportion of the profits of the fund. Rather, the fund 
managers will consider the profit made within it and use smoothing to help ensure bonuses 
can be added in later years when markets may be underperforming. 
The fund managers must also honour the guarantees that have to be met (such as accrued 
bonuses) when investments are cashed in. For these reasons, the performance of a with-
profits fund doesn't necessarily reflect the current performance of the stock market, or the 
performance of the stock market over the life of the investment. 
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr R was hoping for, but in the absence of 
anything to show that Phoenix has treated Mr R differently to other policy holders in his 
cohort, or provided a guarantee of the returns Mr R would receive, I cant reasonably find 
that it has breached the terms of his policy.
The decision not to pay a terminal bonus was a commercial decision that Phoenix was 
entitled to make. I cant reasonably find that Mr R should have received a terminal bonus as 
the way Phoenixs fund managers manage its investments and determine bonuses is a 
matter for its own commercial judgment.
That said, this service determines complaints on their individual merits. We do not have the 
power, or resources, to carry out audits or investigations, for example into the management 
or governance of a with-profits fund, or provider. That is the role of the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). If Mr R remains concerned that the decision not to pay a 
terminal bonus was unfair, or that annual bonuses should have been paid after 2001, he 
may wish to raise his concerns with the FCA. 
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I cannot uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman