DRN-2939565
The complaint
Mr N complains to IG Index Limited about a delayed credit on his trading account which led 
to his positions being closed and him losing money. 
What happened
On 21 April 2020, between 9am and 11am Mr N opened four US Crude Oil positions on his 
spread betting account. Each position was for £10 a point at levels between 2041.7 and 
1507.9. 
Unfortunately, the market rapidly moved against Mr N and the price of oil continued to fall at 
pace. Though Mr N had a cash balance of £17,922.31, by 10:33am his positions put him at   
-£19,270. As Mr N didnt have enough margin on account, his positions were closed at 
1234.2. 
However, at 10:29am  before his positions were closed  Mr N transferred some money to 
IG to fund his account and ensure he had enough margin to ride out the market fall. He 
thought this ought to have maintained margin, but was disappointed to see the positions still 
close and the money not appear on his account quickly enough. 
Unhappy about this, Mr N got in touch with IG to query what had happened  given hed 
transferred the money at 10:29am yet the positions were closed four minutes later at 
10:33am, he thought there must have been a technical issue. Or if not, that IG had failed to 
allocate his funds quickly enough. He was also concerned hed had no notification about the 
margin level prior to the close out. 
IG didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They told Mr N that funding his account by bank 
transfer wasnt the fastest way to add funds  this can take up to three days. Despite this, 
the money had arrived in his account at 10:41am, but this was too late to meet the margin 
call. IG also explained that while they do try to notify clients about margin calls, sometimes 
this isnt possible if the market is moving too quickly. They felt that as the positions had been 
correctly closed, they were under no obligation to reinstate them. 
Mr N remained unhappy with this so he asked for our help. One of our investigators had a 
look into whatd happened. She reviewed Mr Ns account position at the time and asked IG 
about when his funds had been received. But having taken that into account, she didnt 
agree IG were at fault. She said she could see Mr Ns funds had hit his account after the 
positions had been closed, and that IG didnt have to notify him of the margin call.
Mr N remained unhappy. As hed transferred the money at 10:29am, he wanted to know 
what time the money had arrived with IG  this was because he thought it was likely to be a 
matter of seconds after itd been sent, and he had relevant experience of this sort of thing 
having worked as an engineer in finance. He asked what IGs process was to allocate funds 
to client accounts and suggested there might be shortcomings here which led to his losses. 
Mr N also shared a screenshot of the bank transfer instructions page and said this didnt 
refer to delays in allocating funds to client accounts. Our investigator thought about what 
Mr N had said, but as she wasnt persuaded to change her view the complaint was referred 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained by IGs spread betting customer agreement at 2. (4), Mr Ns account is 
execution-only. This means, amongst other things, Mr N is responsible for the positions he 
opens, the suitability of each trade, to monitor his account and to ensure hes got enough 
margin to maintain his open positions. On that final point, at 17. (1) and (2) IG explain they 
are able to close positions should the margin not be maintained. I do however recognise 
Mr N is aware of this, and that what he was trying to do last April was to meet what was 
required of him with regards to maintaining his margin. 
Ive looked closely at the chronology of what happened on the day in question and note the 
following times and activities on Mr Ns account:
09:16:32am  bet £10 a point at 2041.7
10:18:02am  funded the account by card payment of £10,000
10:18:23am  bet £10 a point at 1714.5
10:27:14am  bet £10 a point at 1599.7
10:32:07am  bet £10 a point at 1507.9
10:33:41am  four positions automatically closed 
10:41:04am  funded the account by bank deposit of £10,000
Mr N says he transferred the second £10,000 at 10:29am  he says this wouldve been 
enough for him to have maintained his margin. However, the bank deposit didnt arrive in 
Mr Ns account until 10:41:04am  almost eight minutes after the positions were closed. It is 
this point Mr Ns case turns on.
I note Mr N appears to have relevant experience in this field and I appreciate the points he 
has made about how systems and processes ought to work, and what modern day 
capabilities are. However, I dont agree this means his complaint ought to be upheld.
IG have shared what their payment screens show on both their website and mobile app. 
Both display three payment options  bank transfer, card or to use an e-money provider. 
Mr Ns first deposit that day was by card  IGs website says, card deposits are usually 
processed immediately and the app says, usually processed immediately. But his second 
deposit was by bank transfer  IGs website says, bank transfers are usually processed 
within three business days and the app says, within three business days. 
I think it was clear to Mr N that his choice to use the bank transfer method was unlikely to be 
as quick as a card payment. I take his points about how things ought to work and how faster 
payments can be processed, but IG did make him aware this could be a slower way to 
deposit funds. 
Mr N asked questions about IGs process and this is something we have looked into for him. 
We have asked IG for confirmation as to when Mr Ns money arrived in their general account 
 though they cannot be entirely sure or share evidence, they do have a payment arriving at 
10:29am which was the time Mr N made his transfer. But their process is that the general 
account is checked every ten or so minutes, with client funds then being allocated to trading 
accounts. If Mr Ns money arrived at 10:29am, it would therefore have taken 12 minutes to 
show on his account at 10:41am. I dont think this is unreasonable. And as explained in the customer agreement at 15. (5), IG considers a payment for margin to be cleared funds within 
the clients account, not within their general account. 
Though I appreciate Mr N will remain unhappy with this, our service isnt IGs regulator and 
were not able to ask them to change how they work or indeed to allocate money faster than 
they do. Instead, taking into account what IG told Mr N about bank transfers, I dont agree 
theyve handled his transfer unreasonably. 
Mr N also showed a screenshot of IGs bank transfer page  hes mentioned this wasnt 
clear about the time taken and as suggested by IG, the option to upload proof of payment to 
have funds allocated more quickly. But as explained above, the screen that appeared before 
the one Mr N showed us did refer to the three days for bank transfers. And on the screen 
Mr N showed us, further down the page it did say, [i]f you are making a payment via an 
internet bank-transfer funds can be added to your Trading account faster by sending us a 
proof of payment using the Proof of Payment facility, found in the Payments menu on the 
left. So I dont agree this changes things either. 
Lastly, I note Mr Ns concerns around receiving no margin call notifications at the time. But 
as explained in the customer agreement at 15. (7), IG were under no obligation to inform 
Mr N about his account balance or margin requirement. This is something they do if theyre 
able to, but when markets move as fast as they did on the day in question, its often that by 
the time the level is reached any automatic notification will be redundant as the price will 
continue to fall through the level which triggered it and the position will be closed anyway. 
It is very unfortunate that Mr N wasnt able to make an immediate card payment as I can see 
his strategy was likely to lead him to profit (and indeed he did go on to make two other 
profitable trades later that day), however I cannot fairly say what happened was IGs fault  I 
think their actions were reasonable, in line with their usual process and well within the 
estimated timeline explained. So from everything I have seen, it follows that I cannot fairly 
ask IG to compensate Mr N for his losses or missed profits. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman