DRN-3846049
The complaint
Mr B says Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited, trading as My Community Bank, irresponsibly 
lent to him.
What happened
Mr B took out a 48-month loan for £10,000 on 4 September 2021. The monthly repayments 
were £251.14 and the total repayable was £12,381.45. Mr B repaid the loan in full on 1 
March 2022.
Mr B says at no point did Brent Shrine CU check the affordability of the loan for him. He 
already had other debts when he applied. This impacted his relationship, his mental health 
and he asks for the interest and charges he paid to be refunded, plus compensation.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said Brent Shrine CUs checks were not
proportionate but it did not seem better checks would have shown Mr B was unlikely to be 
able to sustainably repay the loan.
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said as the main earner he was 
struggling to cover all bills and manage his addiction to excess spending, including 
gambling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Brent Shrine CU arranged the loan for Mr B required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay 
what he owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Brent Shrine CU had to think about 
whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr B. In other words, it wasnt enough for Brent Shrine CU to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the 
repayments on Mr B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Brent Shrine CU did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Mr B. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following 
questions:
- did Brent Shrine CU complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing       
Mr Bs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Brent Shrine CU make a fair lending decision?
- did Brent Shrine CU act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Brent Shrine CU asked for some information from Mr B before it approved the 
loan. It asked for details of his income and checked this with a third party. It also checked his 
credit file to understand his credit history and existing credit commitments. From these 
checks combined Brent Shrine CU concluded Mr B would be able to sustainably afford to 
repay the loan.
I dont think these checks were proportionate in the circumstances of this case. Mr B was
agreeing to repay a relatively large loan over a four-year period, so I think Brent Shrine CU 
needed a fuller understanding of his financial circumstances before concluding the loan was 
sustainably affordable. 
I have looked at Mr Bs bank statements from the three months prior to his application. I am 
not saying Brent Shrine CU had to do this but its one way it could have better understood  
Mr Bs finances. They are for Mr Bs personal account but he has confirmed the high-value 
transfers out were to his joint account to cover his mortgage and bills. So I am satisfied they 
fairly represent his financial position. There are a lot of cash withdrawals so I cannot know 
the nature of a significant part of Mr Bs expenditure, but overall I dont think they 
conclusively show the loan was most likely to not be sustainably unaffordable for him. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr B had at times used his overdraft facility but he was not persistently reliant on it. There 
were none of the other typical signs of financial stress such as payday loans or returned 
direct debit payments. There was frequent discretionary spend. And Brent Shrine CU knew 
from the credit check it completed that Mr B had no adverse data on his records, was not 
over-indebted, and was up-to-date on all his accounts. 
Overall, I dont think Brent Shrine CU ought to have made a different lending decision had it 
completed better checks. 
It follows I dont think Brent Shrine CU was wrong to lend to Mr B. And I havent seen any 
evidence that it acted unfairly towards him in some other way.My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman