DRN-3402256
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Amtrust Europe Limited handled a claim made on his alloy wheel 
repair insurance policy. He wants a refund of his premium. 
What happened
Mr L made a claim for alloy wheel repair. Amtrust said it couldnt make a cosmetic repair. So 
it offered Mr L the two other options available under the policy. Mr L pressed Amtrust to 
make the repair, but it declined. It offered Mr L £50 compensation for delays in the claim. But 
Mr L wanted a refund of his premium as he thought the policy wasnt fit for purpose. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Amtrust had offered Mr L the further repair options in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions. She thought the policy wasnt unsuitable as Amtrust hadnt declined the claim. 
And she thought it wasnt fair for Mr L to receive a refund of premium as hed previously 
used the policy. 
Mr L replied that the policy wasnt fit for purpose as Amtrust was unable to provide a repairer 
in his area to carry out the needed repairs to his alloy wheels. He wanted a refund of his 
premium. Mr L asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr L felt stressed and frustrated that the quick and easy repair process 
offered by his policy wasnt provided on this occasion. Our approach in cases like this is to 
consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and 
fairly and reasonably.
I can see that on page eight of the policy document it is stated:
Should the Administrator deem an Alloy Wheel be damaged beyond a point whereby a 
reasonable cosmetic repair can be carried out then the policy provides two options: 
1. If the damage to the Alloy Wheel is such that a lathe skim repair can be carried out, then 
the policy will contribute a maximum amount of £110 including VAT towards allowing You to 
have this repaired locally at Your choice, subject to a repair invoice being provided. This will 
count as one claim; 
2. If the damage to the Alloy Wheel is such that no kind of repair can be carried out, the 
policy will contribute a maximum amount of £150 including VAT towards the replacement of 
the Alloy Wheel. This will count as one claim.
When Mr L first made his claim, I can see that Amtrust thought the repair looked too severe 
for cosmetic repair. But Mr L pressed it to locate a repairer. Amtrusts agent couldnt provide 
a local repairer to carry out the repair. So Amtrust offered Mr L a contribution towards the 
cost of repairs, which he declined. Details of a repairer were later provided, but the site had 
closed, causing Mr L disappointment and frustration. A further repairer was located, and an 
appointment was made for Mr L to take his car in. But this was cancelled as the repairer 
wasnt taking on further work. Amtrust again offered Mr L a contribution. 
After Mr L complained, Amtrust said its repairer was unable to provide a guaranteed repair 
due to the extent of damage to Mr Ls wheel. So it again offered Mr L the two further options 
available under his policy. 
So I think Amtrust acted in line with the policys terms and conditions. It decided that a 
cosmetic repair was unlikely to be successful. So it offered Mr L the two options provided by 
his policy. Mr L wanted Amtrust to provide the repair, but this was outside his policys terms 
and conditions. So I cant say that Amtrust acted unreasonably. 
Amtrust did recognise that it had caused a delay in the claim initially. And it offered Mr L £50 
compensation for this. I think that was fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our 
published guidance. Amtrust also offered to reimburse Mr Ls cancellation costs for his train 
to the repairer. I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr L wanted to cancel his policy and receive a refund. But I dont think that would be fair as 
he had previously made a successful claim for a cosmetic repair and so he has used the 
policy. Its unfortunate that the severity of the damage to the alloy wont allow a guaranteed 
cosmetic repair on this occasion. But Im satisfied that Amtrust has acted in keeping with the 
policys terms and conditions and fairly and reasonably in handling Mr Ls claim.
My final decision
For the reasons give above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman