DRN-1994504
The complaint
Mr J complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua refused his claim brought under Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He wants a full refund of his holiday costs.
What happened
Mr J tells us that he booked a holiday abroad in 2019 with a company Ill refer to as TC, 
which has since gone into administration. And that part of the cost of the holiday was paid 
through his Aqua credit card. He states that the hotel wasnt up to the standard hed been 
promised. And that it was full of drunken and aggressive groups. He said the hotel was 
subject to TCs 24 hour satisfaction promise. And that this stated that if he complained and 
the issue wasnt sorted within 24 hours, he could obtain either a full refund (which would 
mean cancelling the holiday and returning home); or be moved to a different hotel of the 
same standard; or, if he stayed, hed get a voucher for 25% of the cost, off a future holiday. 
Mr J says he complained but that TCs representative ignored his complaint. He further 
states that upon his return home, Aqua told him that his claim would be successful. But then 
rejected it.
New Day told us it hadnt upheld Mr Js complaint as it hadnt identified there had been a 
breach of contract or that the 24 hour satisfaction promise applied to this holiday. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that there 
was insufficient information to show that the hotel was part of the 24 hour satisfaction 
promise guarantee. Or that there had been a breach of contract.
Mr J didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr J would be disappointed if he felt his holiday didnt meet his 
expectations. And Im aware of the concerns he expressed after our investigators view had 
been issued.
Mr Js complaint contains several separate elements. These include that the hotel wasnt of 
the standard hed been promised due to the conduct of other guests. That the company 
representative ignored his complaints. And that he was unable to take independent action as 
he didnt have the funds to finance a move to another hotel. He also says that Aqua initially 
said his claim had succeeded before turning it down.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Js complaint. I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law.
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
Its also important to note that even if there is breach of contract that does not mean a 
consumer is necessarily entitled to a full refund. If a contract has been partly performed such 
as by the provision of flights and accommodation then the consumer is usually only able to 
obtain a partial refund. This would be proportionate to the degree to which the contract had 
been performed.
Here the information shows that Mr J remained  no doubt reluctantly - at the hotel for the 
scheduled duration of his holiday. There doesnt seem to be any other information to support 
the details of the complaint he made such as photographs, recordings or information from 
other affected guests. So its probable he would only have been entitled to a voucher worth 
25% of the cost off a future holiday or a comparable refund.
In support of his complaint Mr J has supplied screen shots of unfavourable reviews of the 
hotel from 2016. I assume he was unaware of these prior to his holiday. I dont find these are  
directly relevant to his complaint. Not only do they relate to three years previously but there 
is also nothing to show the contents are accurate.
Mr J has been refunded or offered refunds related to this holiday by other businesses. And in 
total these amount to more than 25% of the cost. This is a highly relevant factor. Where 
there is more than one party which might potentially be liable for a breach of contract that 
doesnt entitle the consumer to obtain more than the sum due in respect of the breach simply 
by complaining separately to each party.
The total cost of the holiday was £2,752.49, of which £252.49 was paid by debit card. £900 
by Aqua credit card and the balance by a credit card from another business C. 
Its my understanding that the debit card payment was refunded in full. Whilst C has offered 
to refund 25% of the holiday cost. So even if there was breach  and Im not finding that 
there was  the terms of the satisfaction promise appear to have been met by other 
providers. As such Mr J cannot show that hes been left out of pocket by Aqua refusing to 
meet his claim.In summary, I find that Aqua has dealt with the claim fairly and I shant ask it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman