DRN-2127927
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums 
they paid for a single trip travel insurance policy. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H bought a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The 
policy was purchased on 10 March 2020, to cover a holiday from 5 June 2020 to 12 June 
2020. 
Mr and Mrs H paid £456.75 for the standard level of travel insurance cover, which also 
covered Mr and Mrs Hs declared medical conditions (eleven medical conditions in total). 
On 29 April 2020, Mr and Mrs Hs holiday was cancelled by their provider. On 15 May 2020, 
Mr and Mrs H contacted their broker to cancel their travel insurance policy. 
Great Lakes said they would offer Mr and Mrs H the opportunity to move their trip dates to 
another date within 18 months of the original purchase date or a credit voucher to the value 
of £139.43, based on a pro-rata refund of the policy. The credit voucher would be valid for 36 
months and could be used towards the cost of a new policy. Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the 
offers made. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs H complained to Great Lakes and then brought their 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator contacted Great Lakes to explain more about Mr and Mrs Hs personal 
circumstances and Great Lakes agreed to offer Mr and Mrs H a cash refund instead of a 
voucher. The investigator thought that was a fair and reasonable offer because Great Lakes 
had offered a pro-rata cash refund based on the point at which the policy was cancelled. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree that was fair  they said theyd been refunded for other costs in 
full so they didnt see why insurance cover should be any different. 
I asked our investigator to get in touch with Mr and Mrs H to clarify when the holiday was 
cancelled. It was agreed that this was most likely to have been on 29 April 2020 and Great 
Lakes said it would offer a refund based on the holiday being cancelled on that date, which 
works out as a refund of £213.36. Our investigator asked Mr and Mrs H whether they wanted 
to accept the updated offer. Mrs H said that they wanted the full amount, or a higher figure 
than the current offer. So, I need to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs H held have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under the 
relevant industry rules, even if Mr and Mrs H had cancelled the policy within 14 days, they 
wouldnt be entitled to a full refund of the premium paid. This is because Great Lakes 
covered the risk of them cancelling the upcoming trip for reasons that were covered under 
the policy during that time. 
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs insurance policy with Great Lakes outline their 
cancellation rights under the contract. These say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or
have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy was purchased on 10 March 2020 and cancelled on 15 May 2020. 
This was more than 14 days after they bought the policy. So, Mr and Mrs Hs cancellation 
rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to them than is required by 
industry rules. The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a 
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions. 
I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider the Covid-
19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances based on the policy wording in the 
contract of insurance. Thats because I dont think this type of situation, which affected many 
of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion, which Ive 
outlined above, is intended to cover. 
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs H are entitled to a refund of premiums under the terms 
and conditions of the contract with Great Lakes. And I dont think it would be fair to ask Great 
Lakes to use its discretion to offer a full refund of the premiums. 
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint?
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Hs planned trip  and therefore the need for this single trip 
insurance policy  changed due to circumstances outside of their control. So, Ive thought 
about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry 
rules and the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs contract because of the exceptional 
and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Hs 
contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started on 10 March 
2020. 
Mr and Mrs H werent just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great Lakes also 
covered Mr and Mrs H for cancellation cover from the policy start date. So, the premium 
Mr and Mrs H paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday due to any number 
of listed events insured under the policy including, for example, Mr and Mrs H falling ill with 
one of the pre-existing medical conditions theyd declared. 
Great Lakes was covering the risk of Mr and Mrs H making a successful claim on the policy 
from 10 March 2020 until their holiday was cancelled on 29 April 2020. Its a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mr and 
Mrs Hs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain any premiums 
relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
However, after 29 April 2020 due to Covid-19, Great Lakes didnt bear any risk under Mr and 
Mrs Hs insurance policy. The holiday had already been cancelled due to Covid-19 and 
Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in relation to this. Great Lakes was therefore no longer 
carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled for any other insured reason. And, as the 
holiday was no longer going ahead, Great Lakes was also no longer carrying the risk of any 
claim being made while Mr and Mrs H were travelling abroad.   
Based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 
pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs H with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for their single trip travel insurance policy 
from the date the holiday was cancelled. 
The calculation of the refund 
Great Lakes has agreed to offer Mr and Mrs H a cash refund on the basis of their personal 
circumstances including their age and underlying health conditions. So, Ill go on to consider 
whether the calculation of the refund is fair. 
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation and 
post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is split equally across the whole period 
of cover. 
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking 
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood 
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the 
incidence of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied 
that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly or any differently to other customers in 
similar circumstances. 
The refund value has been calculated based on Mr and Mrs Hs unused period of standard 
travel insurance cover. The premium Mr and Mrs H paid for this policy was for a period of 
approximately 95 days from 10 March 2020 to 12 June 2020. The value of the cash refund 
which Great Lakes has offered to Mr and Mrs H equates to the premiums equivalent to 45 
unused days of cover - from 29 April 2020 until the planned end date of the trip on 12 June 
2020. This reflects the fact that Great Lakes wasnt covering any further risk under the policy 
from the date the holiday was cancelled. 
I think this fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont be asking Great Lakes to do 
anything further. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to put things right by paying Mr and Mrs H the cash refund of £216.36 it 
has offered.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in part and I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman