DRN-3732643
The complaint
Miss G complains about incorrect advice that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) gave to her about 
combining her three mortgage sub-accounts into one.
What happened
Miss G said she was given wrong advice by BoS. She has three separate sub-accounts 
within her mortgage with BoS, and wanted to merge these into one, so they could all be on 
the same fixed interest rate. On a call with BoS on 21 June, she asked if she could merge 
the accounts. BoS said it would check and call her back about this. 
BoS hasnt got a recording of the call back to Miss G, but Miss G said it told her that this 
would be possible, shed just have to get in touch in January 2024. But this advice was 
wrong. Two of Miss Gs accounts would run past this date, but one was due to end before 
this, in mid-2023. Miss G received a letter in July 2022, saying that she needed to pay the 
lump sum at the end of the term of this sub-account, in a years time. 
Miss G then called BoS to complain, and it issued two complaint response letters. The first 
letter didnt set out clearly whether Miss G could merge the sub-accounts or not. And it didnt 
deal with the issues Miss G had raised about not being warned that her sub-accounts had 
different end dates. 
Miss G then received a second letter, which said BoS was sorry that, when it told Miss G 
about how to align her sub-accounts, it didnt also remind her that one of these accounts was 
closing earlier than the others. She would need to speak to BoS before the term of that sub 
account ended, to discuss whether it could be extended. BoS apologised, and paid Miss G 
£20 in compensation. 
Miss G said this compensation amount didnt reflect the impact this had on her. She told us 
about her health and her family circumstances. She wanted us to look into this for her. 
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said although there is no call 
recording of BoS misadvising Miss G, the call notes suggest she was told that she could 
merge the three sub accounts, but would need to wait until the fixed interest rate deals on 
two of the sub-accounts ended, in January 2024. So Miss G thought she didnt have to do 
anything until January 2024.
Our investigator said when Miss G contacted BoS later, it couldnt clarify things over the 
phone, and the two letters she then received confused things further. Our investigator said 
that as she understood it, Miss G would never have been able to merge her sub-accounts, 
so she was given wrong information in June 2022. And she wasnt reminded that one of the 
sub-accounts would expire before the date when BoS told her to ring back. Our investigator 
thought that BoS should pay Miss G a total of £150 in compensation. 
BoS accepted it had wrongly raised Miss Gs expectations on her call in June 2022, and then 
hadnt responded fully when it replied to her complaint. BoS said that if Miss G did extend 
the mortgage term on the shortest sub account, whilst she couldnt merge all three accounts, 
she could align them in 2024. 
BoS said it would pay a total of £150, as our investigator had suggested. It said £20 has 
already been paid, so it would pay Miss G £130 more. 
At first, Miss G accepted this, but then replied again to say she didnt think this reflected the 
time shed spent on the phone, and the impact this had on her and her family. Our 
investigator didnt change her mind, so this case then came to me for a final decision. 
BoS then made us aware that Miss G had written to it, to ask it to extend the fixed interest 
rate deal on her largest sub-account by around four and a half years, as a way of resolving 
her complaint. BoS said it had understood our service was dealing with this issue, and our 
investigator confirmed that we were. But because Miss G appeared to be concerned about 
her fixed rate ending in 2024, BoS said it would contact her to discuss this. 
I then reached my final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator.
It does seem likely that there has been some confusion, in the advice given to Miss G. Im 
not clear whether Miss G was told on her June 2022 call back, that she could merge her 
three accounts (which BoS says isnt possible) rather than align them (which BoS says is 
possible  subject to an extension to the term of one of her sub-accounts). The notes BoS 
made of the call suggest she was told she could align these accounts rather than merge 
them. 
But I dont think that makes a difference here. Thats because, on either analysis, Miss G 
shouldnt have been told that she could bring three accounts onto the same interest rate in 
January 2024, when one of those accounts was due to end in July 2023. So I agree that this 
represents poor service to Miss G. And I note that the confusion on this call doesnt appear 
to have been fully resolved by either of the complaint response letters Miss G then received. 
For those reasons, I do think that BoS should pay Miss G some more compensation, in 
addition to the £20 it has already paid. But I dont think BoS has to extend the current fixed 
interest rate deal on Miss Gs largest sub-account by some years, in order to provide a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I think that the suggestion our investigator made, 
of a further payment of £130 in addition to the £20 already paid, does provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. So thats what Ill now award.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc must pay Miss G a further £130 in 
compensation, in addition to the £20 it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman