DRN-2335064
The complaint
Mr D brings this complaint on behalf of his business, but to keep things simple Ill refer only 
to Mr D in my decision. 
Mr D complains Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun Life 
Financial of Canada (Sun Life) reviewed his whole of life policy and didnt communicate 
with him as it should have about that review.
What happened
In 2007 Mr Ds business took out a whole of life policy in which Mr D was the life assured. 
The policy was taken out with a company Ill call Company L, on the advice of an 
independent financial adviser (IFA). Sun Life took over the administration of the policy from 
Company L in 2009.
On 11 January 2017 Sun Life wrote to Mr D to say his policy had been reviewed and his 
premiums would need to increase to keep the same level of cover. It said his options were to 
increase the premiums, to reduce the cover, or to keep the policy as it was but the policy 
would lapse within three years. Sun Life asked Mr D to tell it what option he preferred, but 
said that if it didnt hear from him it would assume hed chosen to keep the policy as it was. 
Sun Life sent Mr D a reminder letter about this on 10 February 2017.
Mr D says he didnt receive these letters. He complained to Sun Life in September 2019, 
saying he thought his policy would have the same premium and value throughout, and that 
Sun Life hadnt made reasonable efforts to contact him about the review. 
In response, Sun Life said it had written to Mr D in 2009 to let him know it had taken over the 
policy, and the policy terms and conditions had stayed the same. It said the policy terms 
entitled it to carry out a periodic review to see if the premiums were enough to cover the 
policy for another five years  Sun Life explained that risk and cost are linked, and policy 
costs usually increase as the life assured gets older. It said it sent Mr D letters about the 
review in January and February 2017 and as it didnt receive a response, the policy fund ran 
out in May 2019. Sun Life also confirmed it wasnt responsible for the advice Mr D was given 
when the policy was sold, as the IFA hadnt been acting on its behalf. 
Unhappy with this, Mr D referred his complaint to our service. He said Sun Life should have 
done more to contact him about the review  that it could have called him as it did when he 
stopped his direct debit in 2019, or sent the review letters by recorded delivery, or sent them 
to his IFA. And that it could have increased his direct debit to take the new, increased, 
premium amount. Mr D said if Sun Life had done any of these things, he would have been 
alerted to the review and would have surrendered the policy and stopped paying premiums - 
so he would have received the policy value of about £6,000 at that time and saved himself 
about £8,900 in further premiums. Mr D also had questions about how the premium could 
increase under his policy, as hed thought it would remain the same. 
Our investigator pointed out to Sun Life that the address the 2017 review letters were sent to 
contained an incorrect road name. Sun Life said it had been writing to the address given for 
Mr D at the start of the policy. And it clarified that two letters returned to it undelivered were 
ones it had sent to Mr D in June 2019, not at the time of the review.
Ultimately, our investigator said any complaint about the sale of the policy would need to be 
against the IFA, as Sun Life wasnt responsible for that. But he thought Sun Life had acted 
fairly and reasonably regarding the review. And while the review letters contained an 
incorrect road name, this was the address given at the start of the policy and so Sun Life 
was entitled to rely on it. He said Sun Life had taken reasonable steps to contact Mr D, and 
wasnt obliged to take the further steps Mr D suggested. And that it couldnt have just 
increased the direct debit amount. 
Mr D maintained Sun Life hadnt tried hard enough to make sure he understood the policy 
review position. As Mr D disagreed, his complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. I realise this will be very disappointing 
to him, but Ill explain my reasons. Before I do though, Id like to be clear that my decision 
will only consider what Sun Life did regarding the policy review. It wont consider the sale of 
the policy, as thats not something Sun Life is responsible for. 
The policy terms and conditions are set out in the Financial Foundations policy document, 
and Section 11 explains when the policy will be reviewed. I wont repeat all of Section 11 
here, only what I see to be the relevant parts, which are: 
a. Subject to paragraph d of this condition, we will carry out the first policy review within 30 
days of: 
the end of the tenth policy year if the Life Insured (or the elder Life Insured if there is 
more than one) is aged less than 65 next birthday at entry; or
the end of the fifth policy year, or the end of the policy year immediately prior to age 
75 if later, if the Life Insured (or the elder Life Insured if there is more than one) is 
aged 65 next birthday or over at entry.
b. The periods between subsequent policy reviews are not guaranteed but will not be    
greater than five years.
d. We reserve the right to carry out a policy review in addition to or instead of a policy review 
referred to in paragraphs a and b of this condition if:
you increase the amount of any protection benefit (other than in accordance with 
section C, condition 1);
you reduce your regular premium; 
you cash in part of your policy; or 
your policy guarantee is reinstated.
e. At each policy review we will assess whether or not the regular premium you are paying is 
sufficient, in our opinion, to maintain the protection benefits until the next policy review.
g. If the regular premium you are paying is not sufficient, in our opinion, to maintain the 
protection benefits until the next policy review, we will recommend that you:
increase the amount of your regular premium and/or pay an additional single premium 
such that the regular premium is sufficient; orreduce the protection benefits to a level such that the regular premium is sufficient. 
This approach can only be taken if the reduced level of the protection benefits is not 
less than the then current minimum levels of the protection benefits that we allow.
h. You do not have to accept our recommendations but if you do not, the policy guarantee no 
longer applies.
And Section 10 says the policy will no longer be guaranteed if Mr D fails to comply with its 
recommendations, and that if the policy is no longer guaranteed, the policy will stop when its 
cash value is no longer enough to pay the charges. So Im satisfied Sun Life is entitled to 
carry out a review, and that it has done so in line with the terms of the policy. 
Sun Life has given our service copies of the review letters it sent Mr D in January and 
February 2017. They arent addressed entirely correctly because the road name is wrong. 
Mr D says he didnt receive these letters, or the letter Sun Life sent him in 2009 about taking 
over the policy. This address issue may be the reason why. But I dont think it would be fair 
to hold Sun Life responsible for this, as Ive seen a copy of the original policy application 
form that shows Sun Life was using the address Mr D and his IFA provided at the start. And 
Ive seen nothing to suggest Sun Life was told to correct the address before it sent the 
review letters in January and February 2017. Sun Life has clarified that the letters returned 
to it as undelivered were those it sent Mr D in June 2019, long after the period in question. 
Therefore, I cant say Sun Life did anything wrong when it sent the review letters to Mr D.
I know Mr D feels strongly that Sun Life should have done more to contact him about the 
review. He says it should have called, or sent the review letters by recorded delivery, or sent 
them to his IFA instead. But Sun Life isnt obliged to contact Mr D in the ways hes 
suggested. Instead, what its obliged to do is to write to him. And it wrote to him twice at the 
address it held for him. For that reason, Im satisfied Sun Life took reasonable steps to 
contact Mr D about the review. 
Mr D also says Sun Life could have increased his direct debit to the new and increased 
premium amount, which would have alerted him to the review. But Sun Life couldnt do that 
without first giving Mr D notice. As Ive said, it wrote to Mr D in January 2017 to set out the 
options  to increase the premiums, to reduce the cover, or to keep things as they were until 
the policy lapsed. And it asked him to tell it which option hed chosen, and that if it didnt hear 
back from him it would keep things as they were. I think it was fair and reasonable of Sun 
Life to give Mr D a choice rather than just telling him his premiums would increase, as it 
didnt know his circumstances or preferences at that time. Its unfortunate Mr D didnt receive 
the review letters, but as Ive explained, Im not holding Sun Life responsible for that. 
So Im satisfied Sun Life was entitled to review the policy and took reasonable steps to 
contact Mr D about it. Therefore, Im not asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman