DRN-3120191
The complaint
Mr B complains that Canada Life Limited has unreasonably refused his critical illness claim.  
What happened
Mr B is a member of his employers group critical illness scheme, which was operated by 
Canada Life from Aril 2013 until March 2021. His employer then moved to a different insurer.
He sadly became unwell in late January 2021 with difficulties in breathing which meant that 
he stayed in hospital for almost two weeks. 
In February 2021, Mr B made a claim to Canada Life under the cardiomyopathy definition in 
the policy terms. Canada Life refused the claim in March 2021. It said that the policy wording 
of cardiomyopathy required a level of ejection fraction of under 40%, but it must be 
measured as such for at least six months. That wasnt the case with Mr B at that time. 
Mr B complained. He did not believe it was fair that the six-month time limit fell after his 
employer chose to take the group scheme to another provider. His said Canada Life should 
be prepared to review it six months on from the date he was diagnosed with 
cardiomyopathy. And he felt the wording was unreasonable in respect of requiring that 
period of stability  as it was, his medication had already been changed several times. 
He also mentioned that he had suffered a number of customer service issues. Canada Life 
issued a letter of 20 April 2021 explaining that it accepted the complaint in part regarding 
service issues and for that it offered an apology. 
In respect of the claim, Canada Life was unwilling to change its view. It explained that Mr B 
had been seen in hospital from 31 January 2021, with a fit note of 12 February 2021 
confirming his diagnosis. Given the cover ended on 31 March 2021, Mr B could not meet the 
minimum six-months ejection fraction measure, required by the policy terms.  
Mr B therefore brought this complaint to this service, where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She said she thought Canada Life had acted fairly. She noted that it had not 
been six months since Mr B had remained stable on therapy. And therefore the time limit in 
the policy wording hadnt been met. 
She also confirmed to Mr B that she had made enquiries with the new group scheme insurer, 
and Mr B was free to make a claim to that business, which would be a separate matter.  
Mr B said he didnt agree with the investigators view. He said he felt Canada Life had 
behaved negatively towards him and often worked outside of its five day timescale. Further, 
he said the policy definition was unfair. He had forced himself back to work in April 2021 
because Canada Life hadnt met a claim, despite being incredibly unwell.  
He said a member of the scheme was either severely ill enough for the situation to be 
classed as a claim or not and having to wait six months was ridiculous- by this point a 
claimant will be either bankrupt or dead. In addition, the new group scheme insurer didnt 
have a six month requirement in its wording for the condition of cardiomyopathy.  
Finally, he said the Financial Conduct Authority sets out requirements for businesses when 
treating customers fairly, and one requirement said customers must not face unreasonable 
post-sale barriers imposed by firms to submit a claim. 
Our investigator discussed the customer service issues Mr B had experienced further with 
Canada Life. It said it had accepted there were failings in the claims process and therefore it 
was prepared to amend its proposed outcome to those issues and pay a sum of £250 for the 
upset Mr B had been caused.  
Mr B accepted the compensation offered by Canada Life. But he asked for the claim 
outcome aspect of the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. 
He said he had pursued a claim to the new insurer but it couldnt cover him, as his 
cardiomyopathy pre-dated his entry to the group scheme. And he didnt want to pursue a 
complaint about that.  
Mr B said his concerns lay with the actions of Canada Life. He thinks its choice of policy 
wording was unfair. He said the contract was between him and Canada Life - he assessed 
the cover before joining the group scheme, rather than it being an automatic benefit.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. 
I was very sorry to learn of Mr Bs circumstances and I recognise that he continues to be 
unwell following his diagnosis. Unfortunately for Mr B, having reviewed all of the information 
carefully I am of the view that this complaint should not be upheld. Ill explain why Ive 
reached that conclusion below. 
I know Mr B feels particularly strongly about the policy terms, but the correct position for this 
service to take is to assess a members claim against his or her group critical illness scheme 
policy wording for the condition or event being claimed. In Mr Bs case, this is 
Cardiomyopathy of a specified severity and it says:
A definite diagnosis by a Consultant Cardiologist of cardiomyopathy resulting in 
permanent impaired ventricular function such that the ejection fraction is 40% or less 
for at least six months when stabilised on therapy advised by the Consultant.
The diagnosis must also be evidenced by:
Electrocardiographic changes, and
Echocardiographic abnormalities
The evidence must be consistent with the diagnosis of cardiomyopathy.
Note: For the above definition, the following are not covered:
All other forms of heart disease and, or heart enlargement
Myocarditis, and
Cardiomyopathy related to alcohol or drug abuseAs it is a group scheme where members join without the need for medical underwriting at the 
outset, the policy wording also goes on to list a number of related conditions and exclusions 
for the definition. I havent repeated these here, as none of those apply to Mr B.
I recognise that Mr B has been seriously unwell and continues to suffer from the effects of 
his diagnosis. And I can see that when he was discharged from hospital, he had an ejection 
fraction reading of just 17%.  However, to satisfy the policy definition above, the evidence of 
permanent impaired ventricular function has to be evidenced for a minimum period of six 
months. That condition cant be satisfied by Mr B, because his cover with Canada Life ended 
on 31 March 2021.  
Section 2.2 of the policy sets out that Canada Life will pay the insured benefit to a member 
of the scheme if the person suffers from one of a number of insured events, including the 
additional illnesses for which cardiomyopathy is one. That means the wording Ive set out 
above must be met in order to require Canada Life to pay a claim. 
I also appreciate Mr B feels that the definition is unfair. However, the decision an insurer 
makes to include some conditions or procedures and not others in a critical illness policy 
isnt something we can look into or make awards about. Thats because our service is not 
the regulator; that duty falls to the Financial Conduct Authority.
Aside from including mandatory conditions of stroke, heart attack, and cancer, insurers can 
decide what illnesses they will cover. Industry guidance from the Association of British 
Insurers proposes model wordings for insurers to use in critical illness policies, and the 
guidance expressly says how insurers are free to decide on the conditions and exclusions 
applicable to their products. 
In Mr Bs case, the wording that Canada Life uses for its group policy is an additional illness 
 meaning it goes beyond the model wordings suggested by the ABI, as its an additional 
benefit for members of Canada Lifes scheme. That is for Canada Life to determine. I dont 
believe it has acted unreasonably in deciding how it drafts the wording for cardiomyopathy.  
I understand Mr B is particularly unhappy that the new insurer (though it cannot accept a 
claim) doesnt have the same severity requirement  specifically, the six month time limit 
isnt present in the different insurers wording. But I cant hold Canada Life at fault for what 
another business may do. As Ive said, individual insurers are entitled to decide the types of 
conditions included and the severity levels for those conditions within these types of policies. 
What this service can determine is whether, in the circumstances, a business has been fair 
and reasonable in carrying out a contract of insurance  or in this case, considering a claim 
under an employers insurance contract. 
I know Mr B remains poorly and he feels strongly about the matter. But in my view, the 
refusal of a claim for a condition or event which does not meet all of the key requirements 
within a specified policy term is a reasonable action for an insurer to take. I therefore cant 
ask Canada Life to do anything more.
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr B, I cannot uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022. 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman