DRN-4130378
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V have complained about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltds (AIELs) decision 
to decline a claim they made for damage to their property caused by a storm.
AIEL is responsible for the actions of its agents, including its surveyors and anyone acting on 
its behalf. So, any reference to AIEL in this decision is also a reference to its agents. 
What happened
In January 2023, Mr V found damaged tiles on the ground outside to the rear of the property, 
that he explains had been dislodged from the extensions roof. Mr V said there had been 
heavy winds recorded at 58 mph overnight which caused the damage. 
Mr V registered a claim with AIEL straight away but wasnt contacted by its loss assessor 
until 1 February 2023, when he briefly attended the property to assess the claim. Mr V says 
the loss assessor went to the next level of his tiered garden, took a few photographs and 
declined the claim in its entirety. As a result, Mr V says hes had a hole in his roof for two 
months, directly under his main fuse board. Mr V told us that the stress this has caused him 
has exacerbated an existing health condition and caused him sleepless nights. 
Mr V complained to AIEL about its decision to decline the claim and was sent a final 
response letter in March 2023, not upholding the complaint. AIEL said that the existence of 
cracked tiles and substantial areas of the roof being covered in moss showed it was in poor 
condition and had reached the end of its lifespan. On that basis, AIEL concluded the claim 
for damage caused by a storm had been fairly declined.
Unhappy with AIELs response, Mr and Mrs V brought their complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into what had happened and issued a view not upholding the 
complaint. She concluded that AIEL had fairly declined the claim.
Mr V didnt accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision on the 
complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs V are unhappy that AIEL declined their claim and believe the storm was 
responsible for the damage caused to the roof of their property, not wear and tear as argued 
by AIEL. So, Ive considered the claim decision reached by AIEL to see whether it was made 
in accordance with the policy terms and conditions and was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
When our service considers complaints about claims for storm damage, we ask ourselves 
three questions. Unless the answer to all three questions is yes, its likely that the claim 
wouldnt succeed. The three questions we ask are:
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the reported damage?
Is the damage reported consistent with damage typically caused by a storm?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
So, Ive next gone on to consider each of these questions in turn.
Were there storm conditions?
AIEL accepts there were storm conditions around the time of the damage in January 2023.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
The damage in this case, of tiles being blown off a roof, is consistent with damage typically 
caused by storm force winds. However, AIELs field surveyor didnt agree there were signs 
of storm damage. He concluded the cause of the damage was a natural breakdown in 
materials over a period of time. 
Was the storm the main cause of damage?
AIEL concluded, on the basis of evidence from its field surveyor that the damage to Mr Vs 
roof was not directly caused by the storm. The field surveyor said, in his report, that when 
carrying out an inspection of the rear single-story mono pitched roof from the rear of the 
property he immediately noted the poor condition of the roof evidenced by moss growth and 
several fractured slates throughout the roof. The defects observed at the time of inspection 
were said to be the result of a natural breakdown in materials and the roof coming to the end 
of its lifespan. In the field surveyors opinion, the recent storms served only to highlight the 
existing issues. 
AIELs in house surveyor reviewed the photographs taken by the field surveyor, and agreed 
with his assessment, concluding that the damage wasnt consistent with storm damage.
However, Mr V said that his claim was only for the damaged section of the roof that had 
lifted and cracked due to the wind. He accepted that the damage to the middle of the roof, 
which was covered in moss, wasnt connected to the storm, but the damage to the edge tiles 
was. Mr V also doesnt agree that AIELs field surveyor could make a fair decision on the 
claim following a seven-minute visit to the property and taking photos from over five metres 
away. He says the assessment was poor and while there were ongoing issues with his roof, 
the section he is claiming for was not as badly affected as AIEL are making out. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, contradictory, or inconsistent, as it is here, I make my 
decision based on what I think more likely than not was the case. Having considered all of 
the available evidence regarding the damage, including the report and photographs from 
AIELs field surveyor, Im of the view that the storm wasnt the main cause of damage to the 
roof tiles. While the storm may have exacerbated the existing damage, Im not persuaded it 
directly caused the damage. 
Mr V has sought to distinguish the edge tiles on the roof from the central tiles. However, the 
photographs of the roof show a large amount of moss and a number of other cracked tiles. 
While I accept the storm winds would have likely blown the cracked roof tiles onto the 
ground, Im not persuaded the storm was the main cause of the damage in the first place. 
Paragraph 12 of the general exclusions says that loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including wear and tear, is excluded from cover under the policy. And while Mr V has 
sought to separate out the tiles on the roof that were in good condition, from those that were 
not, I think AIEL has acted fairly in considering the overall condition of the roof, and 
determining that lack of maintenance, and wear and tear, were the main causes of the 
damage, which the storm exacerbated. So, I wont be asking AIEL to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman