DRN-4469910
The complaint
Mr A complains about difficulties obtaining a copy of the original credit agreement and 
account history from Lowell Financial Ltd in relation to a debt it acquired in his name. 
What happened
Mr A had a credit card with a business that was closed at default in November 2009 with an 
outstanding balance of £3,577.81. The original lender went on to pass the outstanding 
balance to a business Ill call C. In July 2015 another business that Ill refer to as H acquired 
the account from C. In October 2022 H was acquired by Lowell which took ownership of her 
account. Lowell sent Mr A a Notice of Assignment confirming the change in arrangements in 
March 2023. 
Mr A was making payments of £10 a month towards the outstanding balance. When Lowell 
acquired the account, Mr A asked it to obtain copies of the original credit agreement and 
account history for the outstanding balance. Lowell wasnt able to obtain a copy of the 
original credit agreement. Lowell issued a final response on 7 August 2023 that said the 
original credit agreement and statement of account was unavailable. But Lowell was 
subsequently able to get a copy of the original transaction history from the original lender. 
Mr As complaint was referred to this service and passed to an investigator. In its file 
submission, Lowell advised it had obtained the transaction history from the original lender 
but failed to forward it to Mr A for around two months. The investigator forwarded the 
information obtained to Mr As representative. The investigator upheld Mr As complaint and 
asked Lowell to pay him £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay 
in forwarding the account history obtained.
Mr As representative asked to appeal and said that whilst he was willing to accept £100 in 
respect of the service provided by Lowell they thought it as unfair that a large balance 
remained. The investigator advised that Mr As complaint had been made on the basis that 
Lowell had been unable to supply a copy of the original credit agreement and account 
history, not the outstanding balance. The investigator said Mr A would need to raise a 
separate complaint about whether the balance Lowell is seeking to collect is valid. As Mr A 
asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
As our investigator said, the Financial Ombudsman Service cant consider a complaint issue 
until the respondent business has had a chance to investigate and respond. Ive looked at 
Mr As complaint to Lowell and Im satisfied it focused on the lack of original credit 
agreement and transaction history. But Lowell has since confirmed that there is no copy of 
the original credit agreement available. Lowell was able to provide a full copy of the 
transaction history for Mr As credit card with the original lender that has now been 
forwarded to him, albeit later than expected. If, having now reviewed the statement evidence 
provided, Mr A wishes to complain that the account either wasnt his or that the balance 
Lowell is seeking to collect is wrong, hell need to raise that as a new complaint. Lowell will 
then be obliged to investigate and issue a final response. At that point, Mr A would be able to 
refer a complaint about whether the outstanding balance is correct or not to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. But we cant look at this complaint point until Lowell has been given 
the opportunity to investigate and respond first. 
Lowell has confirmed the original credit agreement is no longer available from H. Whether 
that makes the debt unenforceable would be a matter for the courts to decide. But Lowell 
has provided a transaction history that confirms the default balance of £3,577.81 in 
November 2009. So whilst I understand Mr A remains unhappy Lowell is seeking repayment 
for the balance it says remains outstanding, Im satisfied it has made efforts to comply with 
his request for the original credit agreement and account history. 
Lowell received the transaction history on 14 August 2023 but failed to forward it to Mr A. I 
agree with the investigator that there was an unreasonable delay in forwarding the 
transaction history to Mr A and that a payment of £100 fairly reflects the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused. As a result, Im going to proceed on that basis, uphold Mr As 
complaint and direct Lowell to pay him £100. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Lowell Financial Ltd to settle by 
paying him £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman