DRN-3716185
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) didnt fairly consider his 
claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) about the purchase of a timeshare.
The claims made are Mr As as the credit agreement that gave rise to them was set up in his 
name only. But as the timeshare was bought by both him and his wife (Mrs A), Ill refer to 
both of them in this decision.
What happened
On 8 September 2012, Mr and Mrs A entered into a timeshare agreement with a Timeshare 
Provider Ill call W whilst on holiday in the USA. The cost of the timeshare was $30,265.41. 
Mr and Mrs A paid a deposit of $2,545.28 (£1,648.41) on 8 September 2012 and $2,242.50 
(£1,426.76) on 27 September 2012 using Mr As Barclaycard and the balance was paid by 
taking out a loan from W. The loan repayments were also repaid using Mr As Barclaycard.
Mr and Mrs A, using a professional representative (T), made a claim to Barclaycard in May 
2017 under the CCA. T said that Mr and Mrs A has been induced to take out the timeshare 
by Ws misrepresentations and, under s.75 CCA, Mr A could bring a claim against 
Barclaycard. In addition, T argued that an unfair relationship existed due to breaches of 
statutory rights implied by laws local to where the timeshare was purchased in the USA, so 
Mr and Mrs A could rely on the protection in ss.140A and 140B CCA. In particular, it was 
said:
Mr and Mrs A went through a pressured sales process lasting seven hours before 
they agreed to buy the timeshare.
The timeshare was described as discounted, valuable and as an investment. It was 
also said that W would sell the timeshare if Mr and Mrs A didnt want it any longer 
and at a profit. In 2016 Mr and Mrs A asked for this to happen, but W didnt sell the 
timeshare as promised.
There was a term in the timeshare agreement that said that, if Mr and Mrs A 
defaulted on any payments, W could take back the timeshare and keep any sums 
paid before the default. A term like that had been considered in Link Financial Ltd v. 
Wilson [2014] EWHC 252 (Ch), in which it was held that it could give rise to an unfair 
relationship under s.140A CCA.
The sale of the timeshare was contrary to law (T cited s.140/140(a)) and said the 
contracts can be voided.
To access the timeshare and benefits, Mr and Mrs A required a password, which W 
never supplied. So they could not access any benefits of membership. As a result 
Mr and Mrs A refused to pay any maintenance fees and W took back the timeshare.
Mr and Mrs A werent given the chance to read and understand the documents W 
presented them with  in fact Ws sales agents never let the documents out of their 
control.
W breached the mandatory requirement to give a cooling off period as it took 
payment on the day of purchase.
In support of Mr As claim, T supplied witness statements from both Mr and Mrs A.
Barclaycard responded to the claim by asking for some more information from Mr and Mrs A. 
They sent a letter to Barclaycard to confirm that they had never used their timeshare but 
were still paying for it, however following that Barclaycard didnt set out its formal response 
to the claim. Unhappy with Barclaycards lack of response, Mr A complained to our service.
T supplied a detailed argument when it referred the complaint. In addition to what had been 
said before, it was alleged that W never transferred any property to Mr and Mrs A as it said it 
would under the timeshare agreement, nor did it assign any points that could be used to 
book holidays. Additionally, Mr and Mrs A werent provided with all of the documents they 
needed to understand how the timeshare worked in practice.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint, but didnt think Barclaycard needed to do 
anything further. They didnt think there was enough to say a misrepresentation had been 
made, nor did they think there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under s.140A CCA. 
Mr A didnt agree with the adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
I considered the complaint and, although I agreed with our adjudicator on the overall 
outcome of the complaint, I did so for different reasons. So I set out my thoughts in a 
provisional decision and invited both parties to provide a response to what I said. An extract 
of that decision reads:
In doing so, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [I consider] consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Ill also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome. So, although Ive read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not 
address every point that has been raised.
When I need to make a finding on the evidence I do so on the balance of probabilities 
 which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When Mr and Mrs A purchased the timeshare, they paid in part using Mr As credit 
card. That meant certain terms of the CCA allowed him to make claims to 
Barclaycard based on the alleged problems with the timeshare. I dont think its in 
dispute that s.75 and s.140A CCA apply.
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 
12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any 
claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, 
shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
And s.140A(1)-(3) CCA states:(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor 
and the debtor arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any 
related agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the 
following 
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his 
rights under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor 
(either before or after the making of the agreement or any related 
agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the 
court shall have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters 
relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor).
(3) For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent 
that it is not appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on 
behalf of, or in relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor 
as if done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
Although these provisions set out what a court could do if a legal claim was made, 
this is relevant law that I need to consider when deciding if Barclaycard acted fairly in 
considering the claims.
The evidence
Ive read the witness statement of Mr A dated 13 April 2017. He gave his 
recollections of the sale and what happened afterwards. In summary, he explained 
that he and Mrs A were staying at a hotel overseas where they were approached to 
attend a presentation in exchange for a free breakfast. Mr A explained that they were 
due to board a cruise ship later that day, so they had time constraints on how long 
they could stay at the presentation.
Mr A described a presentation that focused on the benefits of taking holidays and 
how the timeshare worked. He recalls being told W had resorts all over the world, 
including in Europe, and that it was easy to book holidays on its website and that 
cheaper flights were available to timeshare members.
Mr A says he was told that the timeshare offer was only available on the day and at 
a discount. He was also told of the following features of the timeshare:
The timeshare was a property investment and was worth a lot on any resale 
market.
Mr and Mrs A could resell at any time and W would resell for them if they 
wanted. It was easy to resell and they would make money.
Bookings were made through a website and W would supply a password to 
access it.
There were resorts available all over the world and Mr and Mrs A could 
exchange a holiday at the property they bought into for other resorts in 
Europe.
Mr A says they asked to leave the presentation, but were pressured and told they 
had to decide whether to buy the timeshare that day. When they decided to buy it, the documents were drawn up and Mr and Mrs A were directed where to sign and 
without having the chance to read them.
Mr A explained that the passwords to book were never provided, despite having 
asked for them. Every time they have tried to contact W they have not been able to 
speak with anyone who could help. So they have not been able to use the timeshare 
at all, despite continuing to make the loan repayments. Mr A also said Barclaycard 
refused to cancel the payments being taken on his credit card.
Mr A said that in 2016 it was requested that W resell the timeshare, but it refused to 
do so. Additionally, W stopped asking for maintenance fees, took back the timeshare 
and were now refusing to communicate with them.
Mrs A has provided a witness statement which confirms her recollections are the 
same as Mr As.
I have also been provided with the following documents:
Addendum to Contract and Truth in Lending Disclosure Statement  this sets 
out details of the loan being taken by Mr and Mrs A. It states Security: You 
are giving a security interest in the property being purchased.
Club W Plus with O Resort Club Assignment Agreement  this document 
refers to other documents that set out the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare, including a Members Directory and Trust Agreement. It sets out 
that Mr and Mrs A bought an undivided fee simple interest in property 
located at a W resort (the Property). Mr and Mrs A then assigned the rights 
to use the Property in exchange for 168,000 points they could use to 
purchase benefits within Club W Plus. It was also set out that Mr and Mrs A 
had to pay an annual Assessment, which was for their share of the 
expenses of operating and maintaining the club and resort at which the 
Property was located. If payments were missed, Mr and Mrs A would not be 
able to use their membership rights and, if they remained unpaid for a period 
of time (to be determined by the Club W Plus Association Board), the 
agreement may have been terminated. Additionally, Mr and Mrs A could 
terminate the agreement by giving notice in writing. But upon termination, the 
rights associated with the Property would return to Mr and Mrs A, but they 
would lose their membership of Club W Plus and associated points.
Contact Addendum  this set out the payment schedule for Mr and Mrs A 
under the loan agreement, as well as showing what they would pay if they 
increased their deposit amount.
Receipt for Timeshare Disclosure Statement
Notice of Mutual Right of Cancellation of Timeshare Purchase
Conveyance Tax Certificate  this sets out the tax due in Hawaii on the 
purchase
Acknowledgement of Price Freeze  setting out that any future purchases 
from W would be available at the same price for twelve months
Hawaii Disclosure Statement Addendum
Purchase Money Mortgage Note  this sets out the loan that Mr and Mrs A 
took from W to pay for the Property. It says that W hold the Property as 
security for the loan. If the mortgage payments werent paid in full each 
month, Mr and Mrs A would be in default. I cant see that there is any 
provision for what happens if Mr and Mrs A dont remedy any default, in other 
words, when any security could be enforced.
Servicing Disclosure Statement  this explains that W could assign or transfer the loan
Pre-authroized [sic] Auto Pay Plan Set-up Form  enabling W to take 
payments from Mr As credit card for the loan repayments
Good Faith Estimate  setting out details of the loan, including how much it 
would cost to settle it
Perks by Club W Membership Agreement  a different type of membership 
that offered other benefits
O Resort Club Eligibility
TPI Premier Access Members Terms and Conditions  a timeshare 
exchange programme
Club W Plus Program [sic] Rules
Acknowledgement and Disclosure Statement  Club W Plus Program [sic]
Incentive Acknowledgement Disclosure
Acknowledgement and Disclosure Statement (with respect to preferred hotel 
pricing)
Club W Plus Partner Enrolment Application  enrolling them in another 
timeshare exchange programme
W Hawaii Agency Disclosure  explaining that the holder of the real estate 
license acting in the sale acted for the seller and not Mr and Mrs A
I have also seen a letter sent by Mr A to Barclaycard, signed on 18 June 2016, 
saying that he was in dispute with W and had previously asked Barclaycard to stop 
taking payment from his card (it is assumed that this was for the ongoing loan 
repayments). He said hed been advised that the basis of the timeshare agreement 
was unlawful and he was entitled to leave the club, having issued termination 
documents. Mr A instructed Barclaycard to stop paying W and to return any 
payments made since he first asked payments to stop.
In response to this complaint, Barclaycard said it could stop the transactions, but he 
could be pursued directly by W for payment. I havent seen any further 
correspondence with Barclaycard about this.
My findings on the claims under s.75 CCA
There isnt any recording or other contemporaneous document setting out what Mr 
and Mrs A were told by W on the 8 September 2012. Further, Ive not had any 
evidence from W that sets out its version of events. So Ive had to rely solely on what 
Mr and Mrs A said happened.
Having thought about Mr and Mrs As evidence, I dont think there is a clear or 
detailed explanation of what was said. For example, Mr and Mrs A havent explained 
how they thought any resale programme would have worked in practice. And I 
havent seen anything to show Mr and Mrs A questioned with W why they didnt get 
something they thought they would, which might have lent support for their 
allegations of a misrepresentation.
The paperwork provided suggests that Mr and Mrs A purchased a type of beneficial 
interest in the Property. The interest was then used as security for the loan that W 
advanced and they then assigned any rights to use the interest they purchased in 
exchange for joining Club W Plus and being able to take holidays. So, it is possible 
that the purchase of an interest in the Property was presented as an investment or as 
valuable, as they were in fact purchasing a right that had some value.
If such a representation was made, I cant see why it would have been untrue. And if it was said they could make money I cant see why that would be anything more 
than an honestly held opinion. Such a statement can amount to a misrepresentation 
if it is was an opinion that the makers didnt hold or have any reasonable basis for 
holding, but Ive not seen anything in the evidence to suggest that was the case. 
Further, I cant see anything in the sales documentation that gave any assurance on 
the value of their interest in the Property would increase. Given that, and based on 
the evidence I have seen, I cant say there was a misrepresentation.
Mr and Mrs A say they were told that they would be able to book holidays in Europe. 
It isnt clear whether they thought these holidays would be provided by W directly or 
by using one of the holiday exchange options. But Ive not been provided with 
anything to show that holidays in Europe werent available, so Im unable to say any 
statement about this would have been wrong.
Mr and Mrs A say that they werent provided with a password needed to access the 
holiday booking website and being blocked from booking could amount to a breach of 
contract on Ws part. However, Ive seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs A tried to use 
the timeshare, asked for any missing password or raised any concerns they had with 
W directly. So whilst its possible that this password wasnt supplied to Mr and Mrs A, 
I dont have the evidence to say that on balance they were denied access to Club W 
Plus.
It has been said that W didnt transfer any property to Mr and Mrs A as it was 
supposed to under the agreement, nor did it assign any points to them, which was a 
breach of the agreement. I have seen a substantial amount of contractual 
documentation describing how the timeshare worked in practice and it was all 
predicated on Mr and Mrs A buying an interest in the Property and then assigning it 
to get points rights. However, I have seen no evidence to suggest that didnt happen, 
so I cant say there was any breach of the agreement.
So, in conclusion, I cant say that there is the evidence to suggest that Barclaycard 
should have accepted any of the claims made under s.75 CCA.
My findings on the claims under s.140A CCA
It has been alleged that Mr and Mrs A were not provided with enough documentation 
to understand the timeshare they were buying. They have also said that at times 
during the sale they werent given the time to read and understand the documents 
they were signing. Both of these could be problems if Mr and Mrs A ended up with an 
agreement that operated unfairly against them and, had they either had more 
information or more time, they wouldnt have ended up buying the timeshare. 
However, for the reasons Ill come onto, I cant see that they have entered into an 
agreement that has caused any unfairness to them.
There is an allegation of a pressured sale and if Mr and Mrs A were pressured into 
buying a timeshare that they didnt otherwise want, that could lead to an unfair 
debtor-credit relationship. Mr and Mrs A have described a sale that was both long in 
parts (the length of the time they were at the sales meeting) and also rushed in parts 
(not being given time to properly read the documents they signed). Mr A says when 
they first decided to leave the presentation they were pressured by being told they 
had to decide whether to purchase the timeshare that day. But that implies they were 
still given a choice about taking it out and they then decided to. Having considered 
everything, I dont think the description of the sale would amount to a situation in 
which Mr and Mrs As ability to make a choice about buying the timeshare was so 
affected that it could make the debtor-creditor relationship unfair.T has argued that there was a term in the agreement that meant that if Mr and Mrs A 
defaulted on their payments, W could take back the timeshare and a similar term 
had been found to lead to an unfairness in Link Financial Ltd v. Wilson [2014] EWHC 
252 (Ch). Im not sure that such an argument would be successful in this case as Mr 
and Mrs As timeshare was not governed by English law, so the legal provisions that 
applied to the claimants contract in that cited case would not apply to Mr and Mrs As 
contract. But in any event, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest the timeshare has 
been taken back.
As I set out above, Mr and Mrs A bought an interest in the Property and that interest 
was then assigned in exchange for points to use to purchase holidays. If Mr and Mrs 
A failed to pay annual assessments that were demanded of them, they could lose 
their rights to use Club W Plus points, but would retain their interest in the Property 
(subject to paying the repayments related to that interest). I have seen a letter from T 
to Barclaycard dated 6 July 2017 that provided more information from Mr and Mrs A. 
It reads:
We still own the timeshare and are still paying for it via Barclaycard.
So I dont think W (or anyone else) has taken back the interest purchased in the 
Property as the payments for that were maintained.
Mr and Mrs A have said that they were never charged maintenance or assessment 
fees by W, so I cant see that they were in default or any evidence that they had their 
membership taken back. But even if they did lose their holidaying rights through 
Club W Plus, I cant see that would lead to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship as 
Mr and Mrs A would retain their rights in the Property.
Finally, T has argued that an unfair debtor-creditor relationship exits due to breaches 
of statutory rights implied by laws local to where the timeshare was purchased in the 
USA, that the sale of the timeshare was contrary to law and W breached the 
mandatory requirement to give a cooling off period. T hasnt been able to point to 
any laws applicable to Mr and Mrs As purchase that they say were actually breached 
during the sale, so without any further submissions on these points, Im unable to 
make any findings.
So I cant see any reasons that Barclaycard should have accepted there was an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship under s.140A CCA.
Should Barclaycard have stopped the regular payments?
Barclaycard has provided a record of a call Mr A made in June 2016. It isnt a 
recording of what was said, but Barclaycards notes of the call. Its recorded that Mr A 
didnt want to make any claim through Barclaycard at that time, but he wanted to stop 
the payments whilst he was in correspondence with W. It is recorded that the 
complaint was closed, but I cant see what was said about Barclaycard stopping any 
payments.
Barclaycard has explained that as Mr A has authorised W to continue to take 
payments from his card, it is unable to stop W from processing regular payments. It 
would be able to try to charge these back every month and hope that W then stops 
taking payments, but it would be for Mr A to withdraw his authorisation from W.
I cant see that Barclaycard ever tried to charge back any payments made whilst Mr 
A was in dispute with W. But even if I thought it should have done so, I cant see that Mr A lost out. That was because he entered into a loan agreement with W to make 
payments for the rights he bought in the Property. So the payments that were made 
were done so in the discharge of a liability that Mr A had to W and, had the payments 
not been made, W would have been able to pursue him for payment. Ultimately, I 
think it was clear that W were taking payments under the authority Mr A had given to 
discharge the loan repayments and I cant see that he ever asked it to stop taking 
those repayments. It follows I dont think Barclaycard has acted unfairly.
Barclaycard responded to say it agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further 
to add.
Mr A, nor his representative, responded to my provisional decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. For the reasons set out in the extract of my provisional decision 
as set out above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr As complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman