DRN-4159201
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the service she received after making a claim under her car 
insurance policy underwritten by Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage).
What happened
In January 2023 Mrs Hs car was damaged in an accident, so she made a claim to 
Advantage, her car insurance provider. Mrs Hs car was taken to Advantages approved 
garage for repairs.
Mrs Hs policy provides a courtesy car whilst her car is in for repair at Advantages approved 
garage, however, there was a delay in one being provided. 
Advantage accepted there was a delay in the courtesy car being provided. And for the three 
and a half days it took from when the garage received Mrs Hs car for repair to being 
provided a courtesy car, they paid Mrs H £30 for the inconvenience caused.
Mrs H says this isnt enough and that Advantage should pay a further £550, which is the 
equivalent of her policy excess. So, she approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. He recognised 
there was a delay in providing a courtesy car, but he thought the £30 already paid by 
Advantage was reasonable, so he didnt recommend anything further.
Mrs H didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Mrs Hs car insurance policy with Advantage provides a replacement car (courtesy car) 
whilst her car is being repaired by one of Advantages approved repair garages. 
Advantage accepts there was a delay in a courtesy car being provided. Mrs Hs car was 
received by the repairing garage on a Monday, but she didnt receive a courtesy car until the 
Thursday lunch time.
Mrs H says this caused her significant inconvenience, as she had to take buses and taxis, 
including to work. And as she was unable to transport family members, she had to make 
other arrangements for them, they had to use public transport and they werent able to 
attend some commitments they had.
I do appreciate it would have been inconvenient for Mrs H to be without a vehicle. But I think 
the £30 Advantage has already paid for this, which equates to effectively £10 for each full 
day, is fair and reasonable, so Im not going to direct them to increase this amount.
I also recognise part of the inconvenience Mrs H has outlined included the difficulties using 
public transport rather than her car to get to work. However, I also need to take into account 
that Mrs Hs insurance with Advantage only covered her for social, domestic and pleasure 
use, so it didnt cover her for commuting to work. 
Therefore, even though Mrs H may have had to use public transport to get to work without a 
car, I cant reasonably consider the inconvenience this caused, given Mrs H wasnt covered 
for commuting under her car insurance in any event.
Whilst I acknowledge Mrs H believes Advantage should pay her a further £550 
compensation for the delay and inconvenience, which is the equivalent of her policy excess, 
Im satisfied the £30 already paid is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, 
so Im not going to direct them to increase this.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman