DRN-3110179
The complaint
Mr B complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, refused to raise a 
chargeback claim for him.
What happened
On 23 October 2020, Mr B paid a garage £1,394.24 from his Halifax current account. At the 
top of the detailed invoice, theres a heading Brief service summary which said 
Investigate exhaust filter full warning as well as vehicle health check, and wash and 
vacuum. Full details are listed lower down the invoice. 
On 4 February 2021, Mr B contacted Halifax, and asked for a refund of the  £1,394.24 hed 
paid in October. He said that when hed arrived to collect the car on 23 October, hed been 
told it wasnt repaired and would take longer. He told Halifax that the garage had agreed to 
reschedule the repairs, and that hed be contacted. But the garage hadnt contacted him. Mr 
B told Halifax hed had the car repaired elsewhere, but the first garage wouldnt give him a 
refund.
On 10 February, Halifaxs debit card dispute team refused a refund. It said this was because 
the goods have been modified without the merchants permission.
The same day, Mr B complained to Halifax. He said the reason didnt make sense. And on 
22 February, he sent a copy of an email exchange with the garage. The first email was dated 
13 January and the garage said the new DPF [diesel particulate filter] has been fitted to 
your vehicle and is ready to collect. The next email, from Mr B to the garage the next day, 
said the DPF hadnt been fitted. The garages reply said that Apologies - but we were 
unable to supply a new DPF due to technical errors. In the final email, Mr B asked the 
garage for a refund.
Halifax said it couldnt provide a refund, because Mr B had initially said hed had the car 
repaired elsewhere. Mr B then sent Halifax a copy of an invoice dated 13 January for 
£1,827.58. But Mr Bs Halifax statement didnt show any debit for that amount on his 
account. So Halifaxs final response on 28 April said Mr B would have to contact the garage 
to ask for a refund.
Halifax did, however, apologise for not having given Mr B better service and for not having 
replied sooner. It paid Mr B £100 compensation.
Mr B wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said hed paid £1,394.24 for an 
exhaust to be fitted, and the garage hadnt done so. He said he was holding Halifax 
responsible because it had refused to raise a chargeback. He wanted Halifax to provide a 
refund of £1,394.24 plus £500 compensation.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said hed looked at the invoice for 
£1,394.24, and a new DPF wasnt listed on the invoice. The investigator asked Mr B for a 
copy of any invoice which did include a new DPF, but Mr B didnt provide this.
So the investigator said that he thought it was reasonable that Halifax hadnt raised a 
chargeback for the £1,394.24. Chargebacks are a voluntary scheme, and there would be no 
chance of success if nothing had shown the garage had been supposed to provide a new 
DPF.
The investigator did think that Halifax should have been clearer about why it wasnt raising a 
chargeback  and he could see why Mr B felt Halifaxs stated reason 
the goods have been modified without the merchants permission didnt make sense. And 
Halifax should have explained sooner. The investigator thought, however, that the £100 
Halifax had already paid Mr B was fair.
Mr B didnt agree. He said Halifax should have put in a chargeback claim, and it would have 
been for the chargeback decision maker to take a decision. He also said Halifax should have 
paid him the £100 compensation. The investigator checked Mr Bs statements and said it 
had been paid on 28 April, which was the date of the final response letter.
Mr B asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
How chargebacks work
Under the chargeback scheme, the card issuer is the business which runs the card for the 
customer. Here, thats Halifax. The card scheme is the business that runs the payment 
network and the chargeback scheme. And the merchant is the business to which the 
customer made the payment.  Here, thats the garage.
Chargebacks are decided on the card schemes rules.  These rules are set by the card 
scheme, not by the card issuer. 
Chargebacks are a voluntary scheme. How it works is that the card issuer checks the 
complaint against possible chargeback reasons, to see what sort of evidence is required, 
and under what timescales. This is so it can decide whether or not it can make a successful 
claim for the customer. Importantly, card issuers dont have to submit claims, and theyll only 
do so if they believe they have evidence which will back up a chargeback so it will be 
successful. This service expects card issuers to help if they can, but we dont expect them to 
raise a chargeback if there is little reasonable prospect of success.
Mr Bs complaint
Ive looked at Mr Bs request to Halifax to raise a chargeback, to see whether or not Halifax 
acted reasonably when it wouldnt raise a chargeback .
The invoice for which Mr B paid the garage £1,394.24 on 23 October is detailed and shows 
many itemised elements. But none of those itemised elements refers to a new DPF. The 
grounds of Mr Bs chargeback claim was that the garage had charged him for a new DPF but 
hadnt fitted one. But the invoice shows the £1,394.24 was for completely different work. And 
as Ive set out above, our investigator asked Mr B if he could provide a copy of any invoice 
which did include a new DPF, but Mr B didnt do so. As the invoice for the disputed £1,394.24 doesnt show that a new DPF was part of that 23 
October work, I cant see that Halifax did anything wrong when it decided that a chargeback 
claim on that basis wouldnt have any reasonable prospect of success. 
Ive also considered the later evidence which Mr B submitted to Halifax. The January email 
chain which Ive quoted above contains nothing which indicates that whats being discussed 
related to the invoiced and paid October work. 
I note that Mr B then sent Halifax a copy of an invoice for £1,827.58, which he later said he 
sent in error. But Ive checked Mr Bs Halifax statements and, as Halifax said, this amount 
was never debited from Mr Bs Halifax account. So if Mr B did pay this other invoice, it wasnt 
through his Halifax account, which means its not Halifaxs responsibility.
Finally, in his complaint form, Mr B said that Halifax had every opportunity to raise a 
chargeback which would have been in time. But the issue here isnt about the time limits  
its about whether the complaint had any reasonable prospect of success. I agree with 
Halifax that it didnt have any such prospect, which means Halifax did nothing wrong when it 
refused to raise a chargeback.
Compensation which Halifax paid Mr B for service.
I can understand why Mr B was annoyed and said that Halifaxs reason didnt make sense, 
when it told him that the goods have been modified without the merchants permission.  
And the final response letter, which did clearly give the real reason, wasnt issued until 28 
April. So I consider that Halifax was right to pay Mr B compensation for the service, even 
though it had acted fairly when it refused to raise a chargeback.
Ive considered what sum would be appropriate for the compensation for the poor 
communication, and I find that £100 was fair and reasonable. Halifax paid this to Mr B on the 
same day as it issued the final response. So I dont require Halifax to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman