DRN-3131052
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained about the way their motor insurance provider Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) dealt with a claim under their insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E have explained that in November 2019 they had an accident. Their car rolled 
into their neighbours parked van.
In May 2020 the third-party contacted Mr and Mrs E with an invoice for repairs to his van. Mr 
and Mrs E looked at the invoice but felt uncomfortable dealing with the claim directly. They 
were unable to find details of the repairer and had not been previously made aware of any 
damage resulting from the accident. So, Mr and Mrs E suggested making a claim through 
their insurer.
Advantage considered the invoice presented by the third-party and agreed to pay the 
amount being requested. Mr and Mrs E feel Advantage failed to carry out a detailed 
investigation and shouldnt have paid the claim so quickly.
Our Investigator considered Mr and Mrs Es complaint but felt Advantage had acted 
reasonably so she didnt ask it to do anything further. Mr and Mrs E disagreed, so this 
complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not disputed by either side. So, I have considered if 
Advantage has acted reasonably when deciding to pay the third-party claim.
Mr and Mrs Es motor insurance policy like other motor insurance policies allows Advantage 
to take over and settle any claim as it sees fit. It states
When defending or settling a claim, your Insurer is entitled to instruct the solicitors of their 
choice to act for you in any proceedings. If they feel it's appropriate, your Insurer will be 
entitled to admit liability, for the costs covered under this Policy on behalf of you or any 
person claiming indemnity under the Policy.
While this is a common term, we still expect insurers to apply it reasonably considering the 
available evidence.
Mr and Mrs E accepted the accident happened and it is clear from the circumstances that 
they would be found at fault, and therefore any damages to the third-party vehicle related to 
the accident would be covered by their insurance.
I have considered the invoice produced by the third-party for damages it says were caused 
due to the accident. I appreciate what Mr and Mrs E have said about not being able to find 
the business named on the invoice at the address stated on the invoice, and that there was 
no damage to their car, so they questioned the amount being claimed.
The invoice gave a company name at the top with an address and a contact number. The 
invoice also gave a breakdown of the costs which included parts, paint and sundries and 
labour. In total the invoice came to £555.68, £240 of which was labour.
I dont think the quote is excessive considering the description of the accident given by Mr 
and Mrs E. Low impact claims often result in unseen damage, and I think its reasonable to 
assume Advantage would be responsible for some costs. So, it follows that I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Advantage to settle the amount requested.
With this in mind I dont think Advantage should have to do anything to resolve Mr and Mrs 
Es complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman