DRN-2730500
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Nationwide Vehicle Contracts Limited (NVC) handled a hire 
agreement term extension.
What happened
Mr B had a hire agreement for a car. It was arranged by NVC, his credit broker, and funded 
by a finance provider, which Ill call L. The term of the agreement was due to end in August 
2020. Mr B was offered the opportunity to extend the term by 12 months at a 10% discount 
on monthly rentals. Mr B accepted this proposal. But it was delayed meaning it didnt take 
effect until October 2020. Mr B complained. 
NVC responded to say it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said the delay was 
outside of its control and it had provided the relevant information to Mr B. Mr B didnt agree 
so he asked our service for an independent review. The investigator wasnt persuaded NVC 
acted unfairly. Mr B remained of the opinion it had and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
When Mr Bs hire agreement was coming to an end NVC asked him if he wanted to extend 
it, at a discounted rental rate. In June 2020 Mr B asked for a 12-month extension. In 
July 2020 Mr B hadnt heard anything, so he chased NVC. NVC apologised for the delay and 
explained L was behind and it was taking about a month for it to process extension quotes. 
NVC said if Mr B decided he didnt want an extension he could email it to arrange for the 
collection of the car. 
I can see why Mr B was frustrated here as NVC had invited him to extend his hire term and 
matters didnt seem to be progressing. But as the delay was a result of Ls backlogs - and 
therefore outside of NVCs control - I cant fairly conclude it was at fault. Nor can I agree 
NVC mis-sold Mr B on the extension on the basis it knew there would be a delay. Instead, 
Im satisfied NVC simply made him aware of his options and actioned his request when 
asked to. Mr B has suggested NVC caused the delay as it didnt communicate with L as it 
should have. Ive been provided with no evidence to support this, so Im not persuaded this 
is the case.
On 19 August 2020 NVC received the quote from L and emailed it to Mr B. The covering 
email set out some points to consider including the following:
Due to the timing of the end of the contract and how [L] invoice their customers, the 
extension may have an additional month added to it. This may mean there will be informal 
extension payments payable at the current monthly rate from the end of the current contract 
to the start of the new extension.
The quote set out the extension would take effect on 3 October 2020 and end on 
2 October 2021. And the agreement to modify the hire agreement set out the first rental 
would be due on 3 October 2020, with 11 subsequent monthly rentals due.
Between the covering email, the quote and the agreement, Im satisfied NVC provided 
enough information for Mr B to know by agreeing to the extension he would be committing to 
keeping the car (and making rental payments) until October 2021. And that until the modified 
agreement took effect his rentals wouldnt reduce. Mr B signed the agreement and therefore 
agreed to be bound by it. 
Mr B is understandably frustrated. He wanted to extend the term of the hire agreement by 12 
months, meaning it would start in August 2020 and end in August 2021. For reasons outside 
of his control, it didnt start until October 2020 and wouldnt end until October 2021. And the 
two months where no formal agreement was in place meant Mr Bs rentals were at the 
original rate (about £260 a month), rather than the discounted rate (about £235 a month). 
But as set out above, Im satisfied the delay in modifying the agreement was outside of 
NVCs control. And Im satisfied it provided enough information for Mr B to know what his 
options were. It follows that I cant fairly require it to cover the costs he says the delay has 
caused him. 
Mr B has suggested he signed the modified agreement under undue pressure. I cant agree 
thats the case. NVC sent Mr B his extension quote. About a week later it sent him a further 
email which started by saying:
Just a quick chase with regards to your fixed extension request. As this hasn't yet been 
signed and returned I am chasing up to make sure all was received ok and if there is 
anything I can help with?
The email went on to set out Mr Bs options. I dont find this email amounts to undue 
pressure. Instead, I find it an example of good customer service. 
Mr B was unhappy with the way a call with one of NVC call handers went. I accept he may 
not have received the concessions he was after. But Im not persuaded the call hander was 
purposefully unhelpful. Nor am I persuaded the service was poor to the extent compensation 
is appropriate. 
Mr B appears to be unhappy with the way NVC has processed a Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR). That wasnt part of the original complaint about NVC so Im not going to 
comment on it here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
James LangfordOmbudsman