DRN-3700911
The complaint
Miss S and Mr W complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) have rejected the 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system they says was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Miss S and Mr W are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around December 2015, Miss S and Mr W were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Miss S and Mr W 
decided to purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement 
with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In January 2021, the CMC made a claim on Miss S and Mr Ws behalf under section 75 of 
the Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Miss S and Mr W to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system wouldnt cost them anything and provide them with a substantial income 
over the lifespan of the solar system, which is generally 25 years; and
additional energy savings would be made from other items supplied; and
the monthly loan installments would be covered by the savings made on energy bills 
and the Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments; and
Miss S and Mr W agreed to purchase the system based on a cost of £10,200 but the 
real cost of the system is higher than this at £19,589.40 due to the interest added 
onto the loan.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Miss S and Mr W or there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think P had misrepresented the 
system to Miss S and Mr W and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view. They said Miss S and Mr W feel they 
were mis-sold due to the fact they were told the system would pay for itself within the term of 
the loan. However, the CMCs calculations show they will not make a profit until after 24 
years.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Miss S and Mr W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agree 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means Miss S and Mr W could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they couldve claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss S 
and Mr W and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I believe was most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is available 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The consumer says that during a sales meeting they were told the system would be entirely 
self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and a solar quote entitled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation. Ive considered these, along with the Miss S and Mr Ws testimony and 
recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of P 
wouldve discussed this in detail with the Miss S and Mr W, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Miss S 
and Mr Ws version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. It also clearly 
sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied Miss S and Mr W were told the cost of the system was £10,020. 
The quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out 
that the cash price of the system was £10,020. The monthly payment was £108.83. The total 
amount of credit is £10,020 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£19,589.40.
Having considered all the evidence, including Miss S and Mr Ws recollections, Im satisfied 
they were told there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied the two documents, the quote and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £10,020, it would cost 
Miss S and Mr W more than this as theyd decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Self-Funding
Miss S and Mr W have said they were told their monthly loan repayments would be covered, 
or self-funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the quote that 
was provided by P as well as Miss S and Mr Ws recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss S and Mr W 
could expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. 
The FIT scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think the first of these tables is clear that Miss S and Mr W could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £461.74, which results in an average monthly income of £38.47. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied the credit agreement and the quote set out there would be a 
monthly loan repayment due of £108.83. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
consumer was told the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment 
alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Miss S and Mr W could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings are £168.02 and, when taking into 
account the optional extras chosen by Miss S and Mr W, the combined income and savings 
in year one are shown as £709.56. These are shown in a table entitled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan Miss S and Mr W entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £107.06. For each year of the 15-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £107.06, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Miss S and Mr W could expect to receive from 
the system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. While I accept the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly 
loan repayments, it does clearly set out the overall income they could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, wouldnt be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the consumer wasnt told 
that the FIT payment would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about the Miss 
S and Mr Ws version of events. However, as Ive found the quote did form a central part of 
the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find they were told the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT 
income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Miss S and Mr W that the system would be self-funding from 
the outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide whats most likely 
to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson didnt make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out there would be a difference between the expected income and 
the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Miss S and Mr W were told by P the system would be self-funding 
over a certain duration of time. 
Page 12 of the quote has a table detailing the performance over 20 years. This shows that 
by year 18 the overall benefits Miss S and Mr W could expect to receive wouldve exceeded 
the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied P told Miss S and Mr W the system would pay for itself by 
year 18, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied this was what induced them to enter into the 
contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
System Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Miss S and Mr W. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 3,100 kWh a year.
Ive looked at Miss S and Mr Ws FIT statements and can see their system, on average, has 
generated 3,132 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im 
satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
Ive also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. Ive looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases were lower than predicted by P at the point of sale. I think this 
explains why they havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices were lower than the modelling predicted, 
the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have been 
correspondingly lower.
As Ive explained, the assumptions used by P were based on information available from the 
ONS covering 2005 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to 
have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Miss S and Mr W 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, while I can appreciate the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Miss S and Mr W entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Miss S and Mr W 
to enter into the contract for the system, and Ive found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss S and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman