DRN-2955856
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the price Aviva Insurance Limited quoted her for the renewal of her 
annual travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs J had an annual travel insurance policy which shed taken out through a broker. The 
policy had initially been underwritten by a different insurer, but Aviva took over the 
underwriting of the policy. 
In September 2020, Mrs J was sent a renewal quote for the 2020-21 policy year. This quoted 
an annual price of £230.59, including cover for Mrs Js previously declared medical 
conditions. Mrs J let Aviva know shed been diagnosed with arthritis in her knuckle. The 
quoted policy price subsequently increased to £499.50. 
Mrs J was unhappy with the increase to the quote and her representative complained to 
Aviva. But Aviva said the price was right, so Mrs Js representative asked us to look into the 
complaint. She told us that Aviva had said that Mrs Js policy was being treated as a new 
policy, rather than as a renewal. But shed also been told that the broker wasnt offering new 
policies. So she was concerned this was a tactic to get higher-risk policyholders off of 
Avivas books.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly. He explained that he couldnt tell Aviva 
what price it should charge to insure Mrs J. But hed seen evidence which showed how 
Aviva had calculated the increased price and he didnt think itd singled Mrs J out in any way. 
Mrs J had benefited from a discount which had been removed when she declared a new 
medical condition. He explained that at each renewal of a policy, a new contract is formed 
and insurers can decide to offer cover on different terms.
Mrs Js representative disagreed. She didnt think a renewal was a new policy. She didnt 
think the change in Mrs Js circumstances warranted the discount being removed. She was 
concerned that Mrs J was being discriminated against due to her age.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Mrs Js. We dont generally tell 
insurers how they should calculate risk or what price they can charge to cover that risk. 
Avivas entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a particular risk 
(in this case, providing Mrs J with travel insurance). And if it does, what price it needs to 
charge for that. So the original insurer will have assessed the risk of Mrs J needing to make 
a claim when she first took out travel insurance through the broker. And Aviva then assessed 
the risk at each yearly renewal after it took over underwriting the brokers book of business. 
If Aviva thinks the risk has gone up (for example, because claims have been made or 
because of a change in Mrs Js health), then it may need to put up the premium. 
So in complaints like these, what I look at are the factors the insurer has applied to calculate 
the premium and whether its done so fairly. This is so that I can be satisfied that Mrs J has 
been treated in the same way as any other Aviva customer in similar circumstances and 
hasnt been singled out. 
It's clear that once Aviva was told about Mrs Js diagnosis of arthritis, the premium itd 
quoted to insure her for the 2020-21 policy year almost doubled. So I can understand why 
shes worried that Aviva hasnt treated her reasonably. 
Avivas given us evidence to show me how it worked out Mrs Js final renewal price. Ive 
looked carefully at this evidence and I do think its calculated Mrs Js 2020-21 price fairly. Im 
sorry that I cant share all of the evidence which sets out the exact things Avivas taken into 
account when its calculated the price. But this information is commercially sensitive to 
Avivas business and so its confidential. 
What I can tell Mrs J though are the main reasons why her price increased. First, as the 
investigator explained, Mrs J was previously benefiting from a significant discount on her 
policy. This was following the transfer of her policy from the old insurer to Aviva. This 
discount remained in place so long as there were no changes to the policy. This was a 
commercial decision Aviva was entitled to make. It was under no obligation to continue 
offering a discounted policy. Once Aviva learned about Mrs Js diagnosis (even though I 
acknowledge Mrs Js representative considers it to have been very minor), it removed the 
discount itd previously applied to her policy. This was the main reason for the increase in 
the price. In addition, arthritis itself incurred a medical premium rise
Based on what Ive seen then, Im satisfied Avivas treated Mrs J in the same way it would 
any other policyholder in similar circumstances to her own. So I cant reasonably say its 
treated her unfairly.  I do hope my explanation has reassured Mrs J though that Aviva hasnt 
singled her out in any way.
I appreciate Mrs Js representative doesnt think that Aviva shouldve treated Mrs Js re-
quoted policy as a new policy. As the investigator explained, at each renewal, a new 
contract of insurance is formed. And so as Ive set out, at renewal, an insurer is entitled to 
decide on what terms it wants to offer cover. It based its initial renewal quote on the 
information it already had about Mrs Js medical conditions, which didnt include arthritis. The 
quote wasnt accepted at this point and so no contract of insurance was entered into. The 
disclosure of Mrs Js diagnosis of arthritis led Aviva to reassess the terms on which it was 
prepared to offer cover, as it was entitled to do. It was then down to Mrs J to decide whether 
or not to take up Avivas revised offer. I note she opted against renewing the policy and it 
lapsed.
It's clear Mrs J is frustrated by the situation and I sympathise with her position. But based on 
the evidence Ive seen; I dont find that Aviva has treated her unfairly.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman