DRN-2430509
The complaint
Mr G complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream irresponsibly provided him 
with loans he couldnt afford to pay back.   
What happened
This complaint is about 6 short term instalment loans provided to Mr G between October 
2012 and October 2013. Mr G says he was struggling financially, and better checks would 
have revealed that the loans were unaffordable.
Our adjudicator thought that proportionate checks wouldve shown that Mr G couldnt afford 
to repay loans 4 and 5 and at the point of loan 6 Gain Credit shouldve realised that further 
lending wasnt sustainable. They recommended that all interest and charges in relation to 
loans 4-6 should be refunded. They also recommended that all adverse information about 
loans 4 and 5, and all information about loan 6, should be removed from Mr Gs credit file.
Gain Credit agreed with the adjudicators conclusions and provided a calculation of the 
refund due. Within the calculation it set out that any refund would first be used to offset the 
outstanding balance for loans 5 and 6 which came to £950.
Mr G provided evidence that this debt was sold to a third party. After further interest and 
charges were added the total debt was £2949.40. Mr G provided evidence that this has been 
settled in full.
Gain Credit didnt accept this information and further evidence was provided by Mr G to 
enable Gain Credit to recalculate the offer. However, Gain Credit hasnt replied to any emails 
sent about the matter for some time and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. The 
facts are not in dispute. Gain Credit has accepted that it should not have provided loans 4 to 
6 to Mr G and Mr G has agreed with the adjudicators view on that. It seems to me that the 
loans are not in dispute and so I do not need to say very much about them.
Gain Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. I agree 
with the adjudicator that it was reasonable for loans 1-3 to be provided based on what Mr G 
said about his circumstances at that time and his borrowing history with Gain Credit.
At the point of taking out loan 4 I think that Mr Gs borrowing pattern was a cause for 
concern and at the point of taking out loan 6 the evidence was there that Mr G was 
persistently reliant on this credit. I think that these loans should not have been provided to 
Mr G.
Mr G fell into difficulty and wasnt able to pay back loans 5 and 6 which were sold on to a 
third party. Mr G has provided evidence that he has now repaid the third party in full. Mr G 
has had the benefit of the money so I think it is fair that he should repay the amount he 
borrowed. But I think that all the interest and charges, including those added by the third 
party should be refunded.
Putting things right  what Gain Credit LLC needs to do
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards interest, fees and 
charges on these loans (4,5 and 6) including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything that has already been refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr G which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr G originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled. 
C) Pay Mr G the total of A plus B.
D) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to loans 4 and 
5. The overall pattern of Mr Gs borrowing by loan 6 means any information recorded about 
this loan is adverse, so Gain Credit should remove this loan entirely from Mr Gs credit file. 
(Gain Credit should ask the debt purchaser to do the same for the loans that have been 
sold.)
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream 
should put things right as Ive set out above.     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman