DRN-4286458
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with how she has been treated by Yorkshire Building Society trading as 
Chelsea Building Society (CBS) in relation to her interest only mortgage.
What happened
Ms C took out a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with CBS in March 2007. This was on interest-
only terms, over 15 years. The mortgage had an initial fixed rate of 5.3% until March 2009, 
when it reverted to the Standard Variable Rate (SVR), where it remained.
In 2019, Ms C complained to CBS about its decision to now allow her to make a product 
switch or to switch the mortgage to residential. CBS didnt uphold the complaint and it told 
Ms C she had six months within which to refer those particular concerns to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
In late 2020, CBS agreed to provide Ms C with a three month payment holiday, as she said 
she was having payment difficulties relating to the Covid pandemic. CBS then agreed 
another three month payment holiday in March 2021.
CBS wrote to Ms C to say that the required monthly payment had significantly increased. 
Ms C thought she was being asked to make payments on a repayment basis and 
complained that this wasnt fair. At the same time she raised other concerns, including in 
relation to CBS SVR being too high and it not having allowed her to change the mortgage 
from BTL to residential.  
CBS didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it had told Ms C before agreeing the payment 
holidays that they would result in her mortgage payments increasing and this would be 
significant due to the short term remaining on the mortgage. It said it didnt think its SVR had 
been too high and in relation to the switching issue, it had previously considered a complaint 
about this in 2019. Ms C remained unhappy and asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to 
look into what had happened. 
While the case was awaiting allocation to an investigator, Ms C let us know that CBS had 
told her she was in arrears, which she disagreed with. She also said that CBS hadnt agreed 
to her requests for the term of the mortgage (which had finished in March 2022) to be 
extended. She said that CBS was threatening legal action, which she didnt think was fair. 
She said she needed time to be able to sell another property she owned, which she said 
would enable her to repay the CBS mortgage. 
Ms C complained about the issue and CBS issued another final response letter, which Ms C 
forwarded to us.
An investigator here looked into things and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, they said:
- The issue raised about CBS not agreeing to switch the mortgage to residential had 
been brought to us outside the time limits that apply and there were no exceptional 
circumstances that prevented the complaint from being referred in time. As such, we 
couldnt look into the merits of this issue.
- CBS had managed its SVR fairly. 
- The increase to the required monthly payment after the payment holidays had 
finished was due to the short term left on the mortgage and wasnt unfair. CBS had 
tried to check with Ms C that the new payment amount was affordable, but Ms C 
hadnt engaged with this. 
- After the second payment holiday had ended, Ms C wasnt making the full required 
monthly payments, so arrears were accruing. 
- Given the time elapsed since the mortgage term had ended and the lack of any 
progress with the property sale that Ms C had said would lead to the repayment of 
the mortgage, it wasnt unreasonable for CBS to decline the request for an extension. 
Nor was it unreasonable for CBS to commence legal action. 
Ms C remained unhappy. In summary, she said that CBS had misled her in 2011 when it had 
said she would be able to apply for a product switch six years later. She said CBS hadnt 
been clear about the arrears situation and she still thought what CBS was saying about 
arrears was incorrect. She still didnt think CBS was acting fairly in threatening legal action 
and she also said she was concerned that the mortgage account may have been sold to a 
different business. 
The investigator remained of the opinion the case shouldnt be upheld. In relation to what 
Ms C had said about what she was told in 2011, the investigator said that because this had 
happened before the complaint to CBS in 2019, this was part of the issue we couldnt 
consider. In relation to the concern Ms C raised about the account being sold, they said this 
would need to be raised with CBS before we could get involved. 
Ms C remained unhappy and asked for the case to be passed to an Ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided about what I can and cannot consider
Part of Ms Cs complaint to CBS in 2021 was about it not having agreed to change the 
mortgage from BTL to residential. This is something Ms C had complained about in 2019 
and that CBS covered in its final response letter dated 6 February 2019. Under the rules that 
set out the time limits for bringing complaints, Ms C had six months from the date of the 
letter to bring the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Ms C first let us know about this issue in April 2021, which was more than six months after 
the relevant final response letter. Under the rules, I can still consider a complaint made 
outside of the time limits, if exceptional circumstances apply that mean the complaint 
couldnt be brought in time. When asked why she didnt let us know about this issue sooner, 
Ms C said that it was perhaps because she felt a sense of hopelessness and helplessness.
This does not constitute exceptional circumstances  Ms C would still have been able to 
refer her concerns to us in time. Ive not been made aware of anything else that would be 
considered exceptional circumstances. As such, I am unable to consider this part of Ms Cs 
complaint.  
What Ive decided about the things I can consider  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall outcome as the investigator and for largely 
the same reasons. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Ms C, but I hope my 
explanation helps her to understand how Ive reached this conclusion. 
Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an Ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given 
the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I 
think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching 
them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in 
mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when 
doing that.
The other concerns raised by Ms C that I can consider, can be summarised as follows:
- The SVR charged by CBS has been too high in comparison with the Bank of England 
base rate (base rate).
- The monthly amount CBS told Ms C she needed to pay after the second payment 
holiday had ended, was unfairly high. 
- CBS had caused confusion about the arrears position on the account and it had been 
incorrect to say she was still in arrears into 2022. 
- CBS was acting unfairly in not allowing her to extend the mortgage and in threatening 
legal action. 
Ill cover each of these points in turn.
The SVR being too high
Ms C has said the SVR she has been charged since the initial fixed rate ended, has been 
too high. This is bearing in mind the base rate being low in comparison. I can see that Ms C 
raised concerns about the SVR being too high as far back as 2009. I havent seen that CBS 
treated these concerns as a formal complaint until 2021. As such, I am able to consider the 
fairness of the interest charged since Ms Cs initial fixed rate ended.
Since 2005, CBS SVR has broadly reduced and increased around when the base rate has 
reduced and increased. In the period prior to 2008, the difference between the base rate and 
SVR remained constant. In the period between February 2008 and March 2009, the 
difference between the SVR and base rate increased from 1.99% to 5.29%. 
During this period, it was a time of significant change in the wider market as a result of the 
financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of businesses and was reflected in 
changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across the market at that time. 
Between March 2009 and December 2016 base rate remained at 0.5%. CBS reduced its 
SVR on a number of occasions, reducing the difference between its SVR and base rate. 
From that point on, changes to CBS SVR largely mirrored changes to base rate. 
In 2010, CBS merged with a different lender and it now operates as a trading name of that 
lender. The lender has provided this Service with information explaining why the CBS SVR 
has varied as it has, over time. There is limited evidence available going back that far (which is unsurprising), however the evidence that is available indicates that costs did increase at 
the relevant times. 
Im satisfied the SVR had been varied in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage, 
for reasons those terms allowed. Its possible that some of the terms might be considered 
unfair under relevant legislation, however what I ultimately need to consider is whether the 
changes made to the SVR over time have resulted in any unfairness to Ms C.  
Having considered this, Im satisfied CBS has not managed its SVR unfairly, and Ms C has 
not been overcharged interest as a result.
The increase to the monthly payment following the second payment holiday 
Ms C says the amount CBS said she needed to pay each month after the second payment 
holiday had ended, was too high. She says the requested payments were on a repayment 
basis, which she did not agree to and wasnt required to pay.
CBS says it told Ms C at the point of agreeing the payment holiday, that after the payment 
holiday had finished, the monthly payments would likely increase significantly, given the 
short term remaining on the mortgage. It said that at the end of the payment holiday it tried 
to check whether Ms C would be able to afford the higher payments, but that she wouldnt 
engage with this.
Ive seen CBS contact notes from March 2021, which indicate that it told Ms C over the 
phone that the payment would increase a lot because of the short remaining term. Ive also 
seen a copy of the correspondence sent to Ms C around the same time, setting out that the 
monthly payment would increase by over £600. 
The contact notes from June 2021 indicate that CBS did try to establish whether Ms C would 
be able to afford the increased payments, when the payment holiday had come to an end.
The evidence therefore suggests that Ms C was made aware of the impact of the second 
payment holiday on her monthly payments and that when the payment holiday had ended, 
CBS tried to establish whether Ms C could afford the increased payments. 
I cant see that the monthly payments after the payment holiday were on a repayment basis. 
Rather, the increase in required payments was for Ms C to repay the capitalised arrears built 
up during the payment holiday. Bearing in mind the mortgage was interest only and that 
there wasnt long left on the mortgage, I dont find this was unreasonable on CBS part. 
Taking everything into account, I dont find that CBS has acted unfairly in relation to this 
issue.
Concerns about arrears
Ms C says CBS has caused confusion in relation to arrears on the account. She says that 
she cleared arrears on the account in January 2022 and that when CBS subsequently said 
she was in arrears, this was incorrect. 
I cant see that CBS has acted unfairly in relation to the arrears position. I say this because I 
find that CBS has clearly communicated to Ms C the required monthly payments following 
the end of the payment holiday. 
The account history shows that Ms C didnt make the required monthly payments from that 
point and that this resulted in arrears accruing. I can also see that Ms C did clear the arrears 
in January 2022, however the payment she made in March 2022 was less than the required monthly payment, leading to arrears accruing again. 
So I dont find that CBS has acted unfairly in relation to this issue, either. 
The decision to not extend the mortgage and to threaten legal action
Ms C says that CBS decision to not agree to a term extension, was unfair. She says she 
had told CBS of her intentions to sell a property she owned in a different country and that 
this was taking time due to Covid related issues. Ms C has also said she is a mortgage 
prisoner. 
CBS says that the mortgage was due for repayment in March 2022 and that although Ms C 
had explained she was looking to sell another property to be able to repay the CBS 
mortgage, this hadnt happened.
I dont agree with Ms C that she is a mortgage prisoner  she has always known the capital 
needed to be repaid at the end of the term. I can appreciate that her preference is to be able 
to stay living in the property, but the agreement she signed up to was that the mortgage 
needed to be repaid at the end of the term. 
Under the agreement, Ms C needed to repay the capital balance in March 2022. Ms Cs 
proposal to repay the outstanding balance was to sell another property she owned abroad. 
At the point Ms C requested a years extension to the mortgage, CBS took the view that 
there hadnt been sufficient development in that happening. I dont consider this was 
unreasonable. 
For similar reasons, I also dont find that CBS has acted unfairly in relation to its decision to 
commence legal proceedings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint about Yorkshire Building Society  
trading as Chelsea Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman