DRN-3273263
The complaint
Mrs H complains Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) provided an incorrectly sized 
replacement fridge freezer, under her appliance insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H claimed under her D&G appliance insurance policy for a damaged fridge freezer. D&G 
decided it couldnt be repaired and agreed to replace it. Over the next few weeks, Mrs H 
spoke to D&G about a suitable replacement and chose the one she wanted. Mrs H says she 
unpacked and plugged in the replacement on the day it was delivered.
A week later, Mrs H complained to D&G. She thought the replacement model was too deep 
and D&G had wrongly told her it would fit. D&G said it had given Mrs H the correct 
dimensions and the replacement wasnt as deep as Mrs Hs old model. It also said Mrs H 
had used the replacement, so it couldnt now offer her another one.
Mrs H complained to our service, saying it had been very difficult to move the replacement 
model through her house - shed had to remove doors and take the wheels off, and her 
home was damaged in the process. Mrs H said shed had to use the replacement fridge 
freezer the day it was delivered as her old one no longer worked reliably. Mrs H confirmed 
the replacement was now where she wanted it, but its depth and doors caused an 
obstruction. Mrs H confirmed this was the only issue with the replacement fridge freezer. 
After looking into Mrs Hs complaint, our investigator thought D&G hadnt made any errors or 
acted unreasonably. She said it had provided Mrs H with the replacement fridge freezer 
manufacturers own dimensions, and the depth was less than Mrs Hs old model. And D&G 
acted fairly in the circumstances by not providing a further replacement.
Mrs H disagreed. She said shed seen from other websites that the replacement model 
dimensions D&G had given her were incorrect and didnt include the depth of its doors. She 
said D&G had assured her the replacement would fit but shed not been able to see it 
wouldnt until shed unpacked it. Mrs H was also unhappy with how long D&G took to handle 
her claim in total, and suggested its delivery drivers arrived early, incorrectly told her the 
replacement would fit through the internal doors, and left the replacement in the lounge. 
As Mrs H didnt agree with our investigator, her complaint came to me for consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be clear that Ive only considered Mrs Hs complaint that D&G provided an 
incorrectly sized replacement fridge freezer. Ive not considered what Mrs H says about 
D&Gs claim delays or delivery. Thats because Ive not seen that Mrs H has complained to 
D&G about these yet. Mrs H would need to complain to D&G about these issues first, so it 
has an opportunity to address them. If Mrs H is unhappy with D&Gs response to her new 
complaint about delays and delivery, then she may refer that new complaint to our service. 
Mrs Hs policy says that if D&G is unable to repair her current fridge freezer, it will provide 
her with a replacement. Thats what D&G did here, so its acted in line with the policy terms.
Based on calls between Mrs H and D&G, D&G offered Mrs H a choice of replacement 
models of a similar size to her current model. Mrs H discussed the capacity and 
configuration she wanted, together with the size constraints. Its clear Mrs H didnt want the 
replacement to be any deeper than her current model. And D&G told Mrs H the replacement 
model should fit, after comparing its dimensions against those of Mrs Hs current model, and 
Mrs Hs descriptions of her space at home. 
D&G gave Mrs H the dimensions of the replacement fridge freezer she later chose, and 
spoke to her about the dimensions of her current model. Mrs H had the opportunity to check 
her preferred replacement model was suitable for her before she ordered it. And I can see 
the dimensions D&G provided to Mrs H for the replacement model are the same as those 
given on the manufacturers website. So I dont think D&G made an error here, or provided 
Mrs H with incorrect information. Ultimately it was for Mrs H to choose which of the 
replacement models D&G offered was most suitable for her, as Mrs H was best placed to 
weigh up the features and size she wanted against her space limitations.
Mrs H had a further opportunity to check the replacement model was suitable when it was 
delivered. I acknowledge Mrs H says she couldnt see it was too big until shed unpacked it, 
and shed had to start using it that day as her old fridge freezer no longer worked. But I dont 
think D&G is responsible for that. And Mrs H says the only issue with the replacement model 
is its size, as it projects out and causes an obstruction. Based on this, the replacement has 
no mechanical or electrical faults. And Mrs H confirms shes been able to install the 
replacement model in the space she wants, albeit with difficulty. 
Theres nothing in the policy terms and conditions to say D&G must provide Mrs H with 
another replacement in these circumstances. And I dont think D&G has made an error that 
means it would be fair and reasonable for me to say it should provide another replacement. 
Therefore, Im not asking D&G to do anything further here.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman