DRN-2475529
The complaint
Mr C complained about Santander UK Plc. He said that someone had tried to set up a direct 
debit fraudulently on his account, which he reported to Santander. Mr C said Santander 
hadnt phoned hm back, and instead had later closed his account without notifying him.
Mr C wants Santander to re-open the account, apologise and pay him compensation.
What happened
In July 2019, a direct debit was set up on Mr Cs account. There wasnt enough money in the 
account to pay it, so Santander notified the company, and wrote to Mr C on 26 July to tell 
him what had happened. 
Mr C logged onto his account on 30 July and cancelled the direct debit. He rang Santander, 
saying he wanted to report fraud. He said he didnt use the account very often, but had 
logged on and seen a direct debit, which hed cancelled straight away. The adviser said that 
the merchant named on the direct debit could be the name for a number of different 
business names, for discounts, cashbacks etc. He said Mr C would need to have a word with 
the merchant first, and he looked up the phone number for him. He said Mr C should give 
them a call, tell them that a direct debit had been set up which hed had to cancel, and ask 
exactly what it was for. He told Mr C that Santander would be open till 8pm that day, and Mr 
C said hed ring back. The call was amicable and theres no record of another call about this 
direct debit around that time.
On 24 August, Mr Cs account went overdrawn, and Santander him an email to tell him. The 
computer record of log-ins shows that Mr C logged on the same day, and also in mid-
September.
On 26 September, Santander wrote to Mr C. The letter said Santander had noticed that Mr C 
hadnt used his account lately, and the £9.77 debit balance at that point was only made up of 
fees. The letter said that Santander would close the account in 60 days, in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account, but gave a number for Mr C to get in touch if he wanted 
to keep the account open.
On 27 November, Mr C rang Santander to complain that his account had been closed, and 
he hadnt been told. Santander told Mr C that the reason was that the account had been 
overdrawn with fees for three months. It explained that when the account was closed, 
Santander had written off the debit balance. This avoided further debt building up. Santander 
accepted Mr Cs word that he hadnt received its letter telling him about the closure. But it 
said that if Mr C wanted to carry on banking with Santander, hed need to go through a new 
application.
Mr C also complained that when hed told Santander about a fraudulent direct debit, hed 
been told he wouldnt be charged a fee because it had been fraudulent. And he hadnt been 
aware of the fees, and he said hed had no contact whatsoever from Santander about the 
closure of the account. 
Santanders final response letter said that it had acted correctly when it closed Mr Cs 
account. In the July call, it had advised Mr C to ring the direct debit business, and get back in 
touch with Santander  but he hadnt rung back until his November complaint. Santander 
enclosed a copy of its 26 September letter explaining the balance was overdrawn. It said the 
letter explained the actions that would be taken if the account remained overdrawn. And it 
pointed out that Mr C had logged on between July and November, so hed have seen the 
overdrawn balance. Santander also sent Mr C copies of the call recordings from the July and 
November phone calls.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He contacted the business which had 
requested the direct debit. This business provided the same personal information that 
Santander had on file for Mr C, and also provided a document showing Mr C had opened 
and read one of its emails, at the location which Mr C had provided in his complaint form.
The investigator also listened to the July phone call between Mr C and Santander. He 
pointed out that it had been agreed that Mr C would ring the business, and Mr C hadnt told 
Santander he was unwilling to ring the business. The investigator also noted that Mr C had 
logged into his account in August and September, including one occasion four hours after 
Santander had sent an email telling him the account was overdrawn. So the investigator 
thought Mr C had known the account was overdrawn, and should have tried to resolve it with 
Santander sooner.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view. He said he was the only person telling the truth, 
and that he was a victim of crime and a victim of fraud. He said it had been Santanders 
responsibility to ring the business, and he shouldnt have been told to do it. He disagreed 
with Santanders login records.
Mr C also said he hadnt heard anything from the business which had requested the direct 
debit, and that he was a clear victim of fraud from that company. He said he was the victim 
of fraud, misinformation and disgusting customer service levels from Santander. He said he 
hadnt had a clue whether his account was in debit as hed never signed up for the 
fraudulent business in the first place. He asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in 2019 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In 
general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the 
customer is liable if he did authorise them. 
The information which the direct debit recipient provided to this service shows that whoever 
set up the direct debit gave Mr Cs full names, email address, home address, and showed 
that one of the emails which it sent Mr C was opened and read in Mr Cs location. So I think 
its unlikely that any third party fraudster set up the direct debit.
Mr C complained to this service that Santander should have phoned the direct debit 
business when he rang on 30 July, and that he shouldnt have had to. Ive listened to the 
phone call recording of that call between Mr C and Santander, where Mr C first contacted Santander about the direct debit. Santander sent Mr C a copy of that call, too. The recording 
shows that Mr C accepted the advisers advice to ring the merchant who had claimed the 
direct debit. The call is amicable and Mr C agreed to ring the merchant, without any 
suggestion that it should be Santander which rang the merchant.
At the time of the call, Mr C had already cancelled the direct debit for the future, and no 
money had actually debited Mr Cs account because it had bounced. When the adviser saw 
the name of the merchant, he recognised it and told Mr C that it was the name of a merchant 
which used a number of different business names, for discounts, cashbacks etc. So I 
consider it was sensible for Mr C to ring the merchant before any formal fraud claim was 
recorded, because it might have been the business name for a different trading name which 
Mr C might well have used. I also consider the Santander adviser was helpful in googling the 
merchants phone number for Mr C to use to find out how the direct debit attempt had 
happened. It wasnt Santanders responsibility to find out why the bounced direct debit had 
been set up. And most of all, Mr C accepted the advisers advice, and said hed ring back. 
But theres no record that he did ring back.
Santander charged Mr C for the bounced direct debit, in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account. This meant his account was overdrawn. Ive seen the records which show that 
Mr C logged onto his account several times between the July call and the November closure. 
So I consider hed have known that there was a charge on the account, for the bounced 
direct debit. And he could have contacted Santander. 
Its likely that Mr Cs credit file would have recorded this small debit balance. Credit files do 
have to reflect the actual position, so Santander acted in line with its obligations by reporting 
this to the credit file firms.
Looking at the closure, Mr C said he didnt receive Santanders letter giving him notice about 
the closure. I accept that it was sent, and Ive seen the copy letter which shows that it went 
to the address which was registered on Mr Cs account. But even if Mr C didnt receive the 
letter through postal problems, Santander could still close the account. Under the terms and 
conditions of the account, banks have the right to close accounts, just as customers can 
decide to close their account. The bank doesnt have to give a reason, though in Mr Cs case 
Santander did give a reason, saying it was because the account hadnt been used recently, 
and the balance only consisted of fees. 
The closure letter offered Mr C an opportunity to get in touch with Santander if he wanted to 
keep the account open. I recognise that Mr C said he didnt receive this, but even after the 
notice period expired, Santander offered Mr C the option of reapplying for a new account. So 
I find that Santander acted fairly. 
The closure also meant no more fees were charged to Mr C. The direct debit bounced, so 
the money never debited Mr Cs account. And although Santander did initially charge Mr C 
for the bounced direct debit, in line with the account terms and conditions, it re-credited the 
money when it closed the account after giving him notice. So there was no financial loss for 
Mr C. 
Taking all these factors into account, I find that Santander acted fairly towards Mr C and I 
dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman