DRN-1325410
 
The complaint
Mr G complains Aviva Insurance Limited has offered a lower cash settlement, compared to 
the voucher settlement for a lost gold chain under his contents insurance policy. 
All references to Aviva include their agents.
What happened
Mr G holds a contents insurance policy with Aviva. In May 2019 Mr G made a claim for a lost 
gold chain. 
Aviva reviewed the receipt for the gold chain. It noted that handwritten on the printed receipt 
were the words 22 CT and 38.4g. It stated that from its research of the jewellers website 
where Mr G bought his chain, it looked more likely his gold chain was 18 carat and not 22 
carat. Aviva upheld Mr Gs claim and he was offered £2,455.75 in cash, or a voucher to be 
used in selected jewellers with a value of £4,775.00. 
Initially Mr G accepted the cash settlement, but he got back in contact with Aviva the 
following day to request the voucher instead. In June 2019, Mr G received payment of the 
cash settlement. When he enquired about this, he was told his claim was closed. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr G complained to our service. He said the cash amount 
offered was significantly less than the voucher, and he couldnt get a similar replacement 
from any jewellers in England. 
Our investigator looked at whether it was fair for Aviva to have offered a different amount 
between the two settlement options. And he also looked at why Mr G received the cash 
settlement after he changed his mind and requested the voucher instead. 
Mr G provided our investigator with a picture of the lost gold chain for further review. When 
our investigator forwarded this to Aviva, it responded to say it now believed his gold chain to 
be 9 carat. So it reduced its voucher to £2,550.00 and the cash settlement offer to 
£1,351.50. Our investigator also reviewed this change in offer as part of his overall review of 
the complaint.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. He stated 
Aviva was entitled to offer a reduced cash settlement figure in comparison to a voucher 
figure  as through his own investigations he had been able to establish a like for like 
replacement was available through an approved jeweller. He also said he didnt think it was 
fair for Aviva to reduce its offer during the course of his investigation. He said Aviva should 
have completed a more detailed review of the value of the gold chain if it had concerns at 
the outset, before providing Mr G with its settlement. He awarded £100 for the delay in Aviva 
acting on Mr Gs instructions to cancel the cash settlement and take the voucher instead.
Both Mr G and Aviva agreed with our investigator in resolution of the complaint. But shortly 
after Mr G says he had problems sourcing a similar gold chain and came back to our service. Our investigator contacted the jeweller to try and resolve the issue but was 
unsuccessful. 
Mr G asked for his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said he wanted the same 
value being offered by Aviva in the voucher as cash  so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked Avivas terms and conditions to see what it would be expected to do in 
settlement of a claim. 
Under the section titled Contents Conditions and subheading 2. Settling Claims it states:
We can choose to settle your claim by:
 replacing;
 reinstating;
 repairing; or
 payment
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest equivalent available in 
the current market. If we are able to replace property, but we agree to make a cash 
settlement, we will only pay you what it would cost us to replace the item as if it were new.
And it goes on to state:
What we will pay
The most we will pay for loss or damage arising out of one incident is the sum insured 
shown on your schedule unless otherwise stated.
I think the policy terms are clear in explaining how Aviva could look to settle a policy holders 
claim. So I will now determine if Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in line with these 
terms.
Aviva has said it has been able to source a like for like replacement, therefore, under the 
terms of the policy, it is only bound to offer Mr G a cash settlement figure at what it would 
cost Aviva to replace the item.
Mr G considers the options available to him through its retailer voucher partner are not like 
for like. But when Aviva made the offer to settle, it only had Mr Gs receipt and description of 
his gold chain when looking to source a replacement. And I consider based on this, the 
replacement would appear to be in line with the policy terms  like for like basis or based on 
the nearest equivalent available in the current market.
So based on everything Ive seen, I cant say Aviva has acted outside of these terms when 
reaching its cash settlement figure. Ive reviewed Mr Gs policy schedule and can see that unspecified single items have a 
maximum claim value of £2,500. Therefore, in any event Aviva would not be expected to 
offer a cash value settlement above this amount. And I cant see that Mr G had added his 
gold chain to the policy as a specified item to insure. So even if I were to find Aviva had 
acted unreasonably here, I cant see a scenario where Mr G would be able to receive a cash 
settlement significantly higher than this value.
Ive considered the delay and inconvenience caused by Aviva in not acting on Mr Gs 
instructions to change the cash settlement for a voucher. I do think Aviva could have acted 
sooner on Mr Gs instructions here. In light of this I find an award of £100 compensation to 
be fair for this delay. 
In summary, I think Aviva has acted fairly in settling Mr Gs claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of his policy, so I wont require it to do anything further in settling the claim. But I 
think it should compensate Mr G for the delay after he changed his mind about the 
settlement. And if Mr G does wish to exchange his cash settlement for the higher voucher 
value, then I think it would be reasonable for Aviva to allow him to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr G £100 compensation.
If Mr G wishes to return the cash settlement and exchange it for the voucher, Aviva must do 
this.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman