DRN-3141725
The complaint
Miss D complains that Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Loans2Go lent Miss D one loan in August 2019. The loan was for a £500 over 18 months 
with monthly repayments of £114.28. Over the term of the loan, Miss D was due to repay 
around £2,057. As I understand it, theres still a balance outstanding on the loan.
When Miss D complained to Loans2Go, she said she wasnt aware of the interest on the 
loan and didnt expect to repay over £2,000 for a £500 loan. Loans2Go didnt uphold her 
complaint and so she referred it to this service, one of our adjudicators looked at the 
complaint and didnt think Loans2Go irresponsibly lent to Miss D.
Miss D disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Loans2Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss D 
could repay the loan over the term and without adverse consequence on her finances. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure.  
Loans2Go has provided evidence to show that before lending this loan, it asked Miss D 
about her monthly income and expenses. I can also see that it searched her credit file. Miss 
D declared her income as £1,222 and her monthly expenses as £450. Loans2Go says it 
verified Miss Ds income using a verification tool and following an extensive review of her 
expenses including her credit file, it found that her income was around £936 and that her 
expenses were around £700, Loans2Go also said it included a 10% buffer to her expenses.
I think given the results of the checks and the fact that this was Miss Ds first loan, the 
repayment amount was also small compared to Miss Ds income, I think Loans2Gos checks 
went far enough. Ive also reviewed the results of Loans2Gos search of Miss Ds credit file, 
and I dont think there was anything that should have prompted Loans2Go to take its checks 
further. I can see Miss D had one active credit card which shed been in an arrangement to 
repay for the last eight months and she seemed to have kept up with the arrangement.
Miss D has pointed out that when she took the loan, she wasnt aware of the interest rate 
and that she was under pressure at the time. Ive reviewed the contract and I can see that it 
clearly states the amount of the loan, the interest rate and the total amount due to be repaid 
under the agreement. I can also see that Miss D signed this agreement. I havent seen any 
evidence that suggests Laons2Go pressured Miss D at the time or that it ought to have been 
concerned about her ability to understand the contract she was getting into. So, I cant say 
that Loans2Go did something wrong here. I appreciate that Miss D may have felt pressured 
by her circumstances at the time, but this wasnt something Loans2Go was aware of our 
should have been aware of at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman