DRN-1915518
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received during the surrender of his bond with Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited. 
Hes unhappy that in the process surrendering his bond, Aviva made an entry on his credit 
file under money laundering, and that he didnt receive information he requested from third-
party businesses linked to this process. 
 
What happened
In April 2019, Mr H called Aviva about surrendering a bond. 
I understand that as part of the surrender process he was told that an electronic identity 
check would be carried out, which he agreed to. Aviva used a system called "CallValidate", 
provided by a third-party business, in order to verify Mr Hs identity and ensure that there 
were no money laundering flags. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
CallValidate was used to verify Mr Hs identity and check for the presence of any 
adverse public data including (but not limited to) money laundering flags. 
Although Mr H is concerned that the check is recorded as money laundering it 
doesnt mean that Aviva believes that Mr H is involved in money laundering.
Aviava carried out a soft search on his credit file which doesnt have an impact on 
his credit score. 
 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Hes 
made no further points for my consideration. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says, Im unable to say that 
Aviva has done anything wrong by conducting checks using CallValidate as part of its 
process, following Mr Hs instructions to surrender his bond. 
I note in a final response letter Aviva said:
The search was undertaken on 8 April 2019 when you surrendered your investment 
bondover the phone. As part of the surrender process we asked for your permission for 
Aviva to perform an Electronic identity check, as this is a safe way we can verify the identity 
of our customers. This then negates the need of sending a surrender form to be returned 
along with copies of identification documents, potentially delaying any surrender request. 
As this was part of the checking process that Aviva was obliged to make, Im not sure that 
Mr H wouldve had a choice, unless he agreed to having the surrender form sent to him by 
post and returned with copies of identification documents, potentially delaying the surrender 
process. 
On balance, despite what he now says, I dont think he wouldve preferred the postal 
process over the electronic method which appears to be much more streamlined and doesnt 
involve Mr H having to receive and send back documents in the post. Im aware that he has 
had issues with the postal delivery of documents. 
CallValidate was the service used to conduct the identity check and the presence of any 
adverse public data (including but not limited to) money laundering flags. I understand that 
Mr H has raised a separate enquiry/complaint against the third-party business responsible 
for providing the CallValidate service, so I dont think I need to address any concerns 
regarding that in this decision. 
Despite the use of the term money laundering, it doesnt mean that Aviva thinks Mr H is 
involved in the offence of money laundering. I also understand that Aviva conducted a soft 
search thats only visible to Mr H and is unlikely to have an adverse effect on his credit 
score. 
I note Mr H was also concerned about his information being passed to another third-party 
business, but Aviva have confirmed that this hasnt happened.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman