DRN-3368826
The complaint
Mr M complains about the interest that hes been charged by Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited, trading as Littlewoods, on an item that he bought on buy now pay later terms. Hes 
being helped with his complaint by his representative.  
What happened
Mr M used a credit account with Littlewoods to buy a fan on buy now pay later terms in 
March 2020. The price of the fan was £704.99 and, if he paid for it by a specified date in July 
2021, he wouldnt have to pay any interest. His representative phoned Littlewoods on that 
date to make the payment but, at the time of her phone call, it had closed for the day and the 
payment received by Littlewoods until six days later. Littlewoods applied the full interest 
charge of £762.65 to Mr Ms account. 
Mr M complained to Littlewoods about the interest that hed been charged. Littlewoods said 
that he was provided with, and agreed to, the buy now pay later terms and conditions before 
he bought the fan and they were also available on its website. It also said that the date on 
which the interest free period expired was provided on his account statements and could be 
viewed online within My Account. It said that Mr M didnt pay the full cash price of the item by 
that date so interest of £762.65 was correctly applied to his account. Mr M wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
the interest was applied to the account in line with the terms and conditions of the credit 
agreement and that Littlewoods provided more than one method of payment which Mr M 
couldve used. He said that he wouldnt ask Littlewoods to do anything else.
Mr Ms representative, on his behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. The representative doesnt think that the circumstances, including being 
unable to contact Littlewoods during the government imposed restrictions in response to the 
pandemic, have been taken into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Mr M bought a fan on buy now pay later terms in March 2020 and, if he paid for it by 
a specified date in July 2021, he wouldnt have to pay any interest;
the buy now pay later terms and conditions were agreed by him before he bought the 
fan and the date on which the interest free period expired was set out on his account 
statements and could be seen on his online My Account;
there doesnt seem to be any dispute that Mr M knew when the interest free period 
was ending as his representative says that she tried to phone Littlewoods to make 
payment on that date  but by the time that she did so it had closed;
Mr Ms representative says that she thought that Littlewoods was open until 8pm and 
it must have changed its closing time without telling Mr M  but Im not persuaded 
that theres enough evidence to show that it had recently changed its opening times 
or that it had acted incorrectly in connection with its opening times;
Mr Ms representative also says that the impact of the government imposed 
restrictions in response to the pandemic hasnt been taken into account  but 
Littlewoods was available for phone calls on the date that she tried to make the 
payment (but had closed by the time that she did so) and the payment could have 
been by other means, including automated payment online and on Littlewoods 
website  so Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the 
payment wasnt made before the interest free period ended as a result of any issues 
caused by the government imposed restrictions in response to the pandemic;
the payment was received by Littlewoods six days after the interest free period had 
ended but by then the interest of £762.65 had been applied to Mr Ms account;
I consider that the payment wasnt made before the interest free period ended and 
that Littlewoods has applied interest to Mr Ms account in accordance with the buy 
now pay later terms and conditions;
I sympathise with Mr M that he has to pay interest of £762.65 when his payment was 
made only six days after the interest free period had ended, but Im not persuaded 
that theres enough evidence to show that Littlewoods has acted incorrectly in these 
circumstances; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Littlewoods to reduce, or 
waive, the interest that its applied to Mr Ms account, to pay him any compensation 
or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman