DRN-3894529
The complaint
Miss W complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) closed her 
account due to a misunderstanding. 
What happened
In 2021, Miss W applied to Amex for a credit card account. Amex sent her two credit cards  
a business one and a personal one. Miss W says she only applied for the business account 
and didnt realise that Amex had opened two accounts until she received two separate bills.
Miss W says she lost the personal card. She says she called Amex and asked it to cancel 
the card and send her a replacement. But she says that Amex closed the account instead.
Miss W says there has been miscommunication about the account which has made things 
very confusing. She says that closure of the account was a mistake. She says Amex wrote 
to her about reinstating the card but then said that wasnt possible. She says she didnt think 
that was fair, so she stopped making payments. Amex transferred the account to a debt 
collection agency in March 2022.
Miss W says that Amex didnt explain what would happen if the account was closed. She 
says she didnt know she would have to pay off the full balance and wouldnt get the reward 
points. She complained to Amex. She asked it to transfer the personal account balance and 
rewards points to the business account. She also wanted to discuss monthly repayments. 
Amex didnt uphold the complaint. It said that Miss W had applied for both accounts. It said it 
had closed the personal account because Miss W had missed three payments in a row. It 
said it had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Amex said it couldnt 
reinstate the account until Miss W repaid the full outstanding balance. It explained that her 
reward points had been cancelled in line with the terms and conditions. Amex also said that 
Miss W had asked it to cancel the personal account on a call in October 2021.
Miss W wasnt happy with Amexs response and brought the complaint to this service. Our 
Investigator thought Amex had acted fairly. But Miss W didnt agree. She asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Two separate accounts were opened in Miss Ws name in around July 2021. Miss W says 
she only applied for the business account. She has suggested that the personal account was 
opened as a result of fraud. Amex investigated this and found that Miss W had applied for 
both cards. I havent seen anything which makes me think the personal account shouldnt 
have been opened in Miss Ws name. 
The personal card was used to make purchases from July 2021 until around October 2021, 
when Miss W says she lost the card. She says she called Amex to cancel the lost card but, 
due to a misunderstanding, Amex cancelled the account instead. Ive seen Amexs notes of 
this call. They say that Miss W was passed to another team to close one of her accounts. 
Some later notes say that information was then sent to Miss W about reinstatement. 
I think its possible that there was a misunderstanding in October about whether it was just 
the card that needed to be cancelled or the whole account. But I havent seen anything 
which makes me think Amex made a mistake. The notes suggest that Miss W wanted to 
close the account because of fees and then wanted it to be reinstated. Under the terms and 
conditions of the account, Miss W could end the credit card agreement by telling Amex to 
close it and by paying off all the amounts she owed. In October 2021, there was an 
outstanding balance on the account, so it couldnt be closed. The account wasnt actually 
closed until January 2022.
I find that the personal account was closed in January 2022 because of missed payments. 
Under the terms and conditions of the account, Miss W has to pay at least the minimum 
payment by the due date shown on her statement each month. The minimum monthly 
payments were made to begin with, after the account was opened. But, from November 
2021 onwards, the minimum payments were missed. 
Amex can suspend Miss Ws account if shes in breach of the agreement. And it can end the 
credit card agreement by giving Miss W two months notice in writing. It can also end the 
agreement immediately in some situations. These include if Miss W repeatedly fails to pay 
minimum payments on time, if she seriously or persistently breaches the agreement and if 
Amex has reasonable grounds to believe shes unable or unwilling to pay her debts when 
due. When Amex ends a credit card agreement, the terms and conditions allow it to close 
the account and request repayment of the full outstanding balance. As Miss W had missed 
several payments, I find that Amex was entitled to end the agreement and close her account.
Amex wrote to Miss W in November and December 2021 about late payment charges. In 
December 2021, it wrote to tell her it had placed a temporary hold on her account. That was 
because she had missed a couple of payments. Amex sent her a default notice later that 
month. Shortly afterwards it placed a temporary suspension on both her cards. In March 
2022, Amex sent Miss W a final demand and notice that her credit card agreement had been 
terminated. At this point, Amex passed the account to a debt collection agency. So, I think 
Amex made Miss W aware of what was happening to her account. I also find that Amex told 
her what would happen if she didnt make payment. Miss W didnt make any payments, so I 
think it was reasonable for Amex to end the agreement and close the account.
Miss W says she didnt make payments because Amex told her not to after all the confusion. 
I havent seen anything which confirms this. It wasnt said in any of the calls Ive listened to. I 
think the letters from Amex were clear that Miss W needed to make payment if she wanted 
to keep the account open. So I dont think Amex acted unfairly by closing the account.
Miss W is unhappy that she has lost the reward points which shed earned on the card. But I 
dont think Amex acted unfairly by cancelling the points. Thats because the terms and 
conditions of the reward scheme say that shell lose any points if Amex closes her account.
Miss W feels strongly about her complaint, so I realise she will find my decision 
disappointing. But I dont think Amex acted unfairly here, so Im not going to ask it to do 
anything.My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman