DRN-4346001
The complaint
Mr D complains in his capacity as a guarantor that BCRS Business Loans Limited unfairly 
misled him into entering into a guarantee that was for a higher amount than he thought and 
was unaffordable to him. 
What happened
Mr D was the director of a limited company, which he set up in 2022 in order to acquire a 
business. He used a credit broker to find a lender to lend his company £85,000 to buy the 
business. 
BCRS offered Mr Ds company two loans each for £42,500, a Recovery Loan under the 
Governments Recovery Loan Scheme (RLS) and a commercial loan backed by a personal 
guarantee (PG) from Mr D. 
Mr D electronically signed the loan documentation, including a PG for £42,500, on 
1 August 2022.  
Unfortunately, the business Mr Ds company acquired was not successful. In late 2022, 
BCRS issued a formal demand for repayment both to the company and to Mr D as the 
guarantor. 
Mr D complained to BCRS. Some of his complaint was made on behalf of the company, but 
he also said that BCRS hadnt explained the guarantee to him properly and had changed the 
amount of the guarantee without fully discussing it. He said that BCRS hadnt checked that 
the guarantee was affordable to him. 
BCRS didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. They said they had a thorough loan approval process, 
which they had followed in Mr Ds case. This included sending him a link to a video 
explaining guarantees, which he had signed to say he had watched. They had also 
recommended he seek independent legal advice and he had signed a waiver to say he didnt 
require this. BCRS also said that they had carried out affordability checks.  
In early 2023, Mr D referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Shortly afterwards, 
his company went into liquidation. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt recommend upholding 
Mr Ds complaint. She thought that BCRS had made the amount of the guarantee clear in 
their documentation and their checks were adequate. 
Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter again. He provided a 
copy of some legal advice he had been given and said, in summary:
Although BCRS agent had briefly verbally explained the guarantee (although not the 
amount), they should have explained it more simply in writing. 
BCRS agent had repeatedly verbally assured him that the guarantee was only for 
£25,000.
BCRS knew that if theyd highlighted the increase from £25,000 to £42,500, they 
would have lost the deal.
He had missed the video link that explained the guarantee. But even so, it was only a 
generic video, it wasnt specific to his circumstances. 
He couldnt see where the documentation said the guarantee was £42,500. 
BCRS had put him under pressure to sign quickly or lose the deal.  
He had trusted BCRS and hence agreed to waive legal advice. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, but I dont think BCRS have done anything 
wrong in this case. 
Did BCRS explain the guarantee clearly and make the amount guaranteed clear? 
I understand that BCRS was first approached by Mr Ds broker in March 2022. Mr D then 
met with BCRS in April 2022, accompanied by his accountant, at which point he filled in an 
application form to borrow £85,000. 
When BCRS first gave an in principle agreement to lend in May 2022, it mentioned a 
£60,000 RLS and a £25,000 PG backed loan. But I think its clear that this was only an 
indicative offer, before any detailed assessment of Mr Ds proposal had taken place. 
Im not sure at what exact point the terms offered changed into a £42,500 RLS and £42,500 
PG-backed loan, but I think its likely that it was after June 2022, at which point BCRS say 
they had the information they required to carry out a credit assessment. Mr D says the 
change to the guarantee was never mentioned and I havent seen it mentioned in writing. 
On 27 July 2022, BCRS emailed a formal loan offer confirming the application had been 
approved. This confirmed a loan amount for the non-RLS loan of £42,500 and that security 
would take the form of a guarantee, debenture and indemnity. Whilst it doesnt explicitly 
mention an amount for the guarantee, there is no suggestion that it wouldnt be for the whole 
amount. Indeed, I would only expect an amount for the guarantee to be quoted if it was for a 
different amount from the loan. I note that the original proposal was for a £25,000 fully-
guaranteed loan for the non-RLS part. So I dont think there had even been any suggestion 
that the PG wouldnt cover the full amount of the non-RLS loan. 
Mr D electronically signed most of the documentation, including the loan agreement and 
guarantee, on 1 August 2022. The loan agreement showed that the loan was for £42,500 
and security was a guarantee and indemnity from [Mr D]. There is no mention of 
£25,000. The guarantee and indemnity said clearly that the capital limit was £42,500. I know 
that Mr D says that he was misled by verbal assurances. But I consider that if Mr D was still 
expecting only to give a guarantee for £25,000, then he ought reasonably to have queried 
the documentation before signing it at this point.
I know Mr D feels very strongly that BCRS should have done more to make things clear to him. But this is an unregulated commercial loan to a limited company. Im afraid the 
expectation is that company directors will read and understand the agreements they sign 
and they therefore dont get the same high level of legal protection that individual consumers 
receive. 
Mr D has said that he initialled to say hed watched the video explaining guarantees without 
having watched it. That was his choice  as was his decision to waive independent legal 
advice on the guarantee. I dont think BCRS documentation was unclear. Not only was there 
a video to watch, there was also a document called BCRS Guide to our Documentation, 
which explained a guarantee in clear and simple terms. 
As Ive already mentioned, the type of loan Mr Ds business took out is unregulated. So there 
are no Financial Conduct Authority rules that must be followed. However, there is an 
organisation called the Lending Standards Board, which aims to set benchmarks for good 
lending practice in the UK, including for business loans. It publishes something it calls 
Standards of Lending Practice for Business Customers. I have therefore considered whether 
BCRS have complied with these good practice standards in Mr Ds case. 
The relevant sections concerning guarantees are:
If an individual or a business agrees to be a guarantor or to provide an indemnity, the 
Firm should make the individual/business aware of their obligations under the 
agreement and that they have the option to seek legal advice, should they wish to do 
so.
Firms should not accept unlimited guarantees from an individual/business unless it is 
to support a customers liabilities under a merchant agreement; however other forms of 
unlimited third party security may be taken, if available.
Firms should inform the customer if any security, for example, a 
guarantee/debenture/indemnity, is required to support the borrowing or other liabilities 
and the reason why. The level of security required by the Firm should be appropriate 
to the amount borrowed.
I think BCRS has followed these principles. I consider they took enough steps to make Mr D 
aware of his obligations and the option of seeking legal advice (which he waived). The 
guarantee wasnt unlimited and it was at an appropriate level for the amount borrowed. 
Ive considered Mr Ds argument that he was pressurised into signing in a hurry and 
therefore didnt give the documentation as much consideration as he would have done. I am 
mindful that BCRS are a not-for-profit lender and not a sales-driven organisation. So I dont 
think there was any incentive for BCRS to put Mr D under pressure. But I also dont think the 
evidence Mr D has provided shows undue pressure being exerted. It seems to me that 
BCRS were simply working to the deadline Mr D himself had provided (based on his desire 
to complete on the acquisition of the business). 
Did BCRS consider if the guarantee was affordable to Mr D? 
My starting point here is that there are no rules requiring lenders to check that the 
guarantors of business lending can afford the potential liabilities they are committing 
themselves to repay. Neither is there anything in the Standards of Lending Practice 
recommending such a check. It is also very common industry practice to take a guarantee in 
a situation such as this. 
My remit is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. But in the absence of any regulations or industry standards, I take the view that it would have to be 
abundantly clear that the guarantee was unaffordable at the outset for me to conclude that 
BCRS should not reasonably have taken it. I think its relevant here that a guarantee is a 
backstop, only to be used in the event of the failure of the borrower to repay. 
Notwithstanding the absence of regulations, I can see that BCRS did in fact carry out some 
checks before taking the guarantee. They asked for Mr Ds CV and carried out a credit 
reference check, which showed him to have an excellent credit rating. They also asked Mr D 
for copies of his bank statements, which showed an account operating satisfactorily. I dont 
think there were any warning signs in this information that should have led BCRS question 
whether it was fair to require the guarantee.  
My role is not to make BCRS lending decisions for them. I am satisfied that BCRS gathered 
enough information to enable them to assess the viability of the lending proposal, including 
the ability of the borrower to repay. I dont think they acted unreasonably in deciding to 
require a personal guarantee for half of the total borrowing. The amount of the guarantee 
was clear at the point of signing and they followed industry best practice in how they took 
that guarantee. My conclusion is that BCRS havent acted unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman