DRN-3193017
Complaint
Miss M has complained about the charges The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) applied 
to her current account. Shes said she switched from a packaged account and didnt have an 
arranged overdraft so she doesnt understand why shes been charged.
Background
Miss Ms complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that RBS had 
done anything wrong and so didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the 
adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
It may help for me to start by explaining that while Miss M may have switched from a 
packaged account to a free account, all this meant was that Miss M didnt have to pay a 
monthly fee for any additional benefits associated with her account. It didnt mean that that 
Miss M wouldnt pay any fees if she went into an unarranged overdraft like she did here.
I also want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various amounts RBS 
charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs 
of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial 
decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at RBSs charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Miss M if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Miss Ms 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
aware Miss M was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where RBS didnt treat Miss M fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where RBS continued charging 
Miss M even though it ought to have known she was in financial difficulty or it ought to have 
realised this was the case. Ive looked through Miss Ms statements throughout the period 
concerned. And I cant see that RBS ought to have been aware that Miss M might have been 
struggling during the period weve looked at. 
Its fair to say that Miss M did sometimes incur unarranged overdraft fees. But while Im not 
seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Miss M expenditure, nonetheless 
there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary 
transactions account going from the account. 
Indeed, there arent any direct debits or anything like that going out of the account it is 
mainly card transactions and these transactions which caused Miss M to go overdrawn, as 
she didnt have the funds to cover them. I also think its worth noting that RBS has already 
refunded a proportion of the unarranged overdraft fees charged too.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Miss M wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted RBS to potential financial difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Miss M, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for RBS to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. And I 
dont think RBS charged Miss M in circumstances where it ought to have realised that it was 
unfair to do so. As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss M  especially as it has taken 
sometime for her complaint to reach this stage. But I hope shell understand the reasons for 
my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman