DRN-3980811
The complaint
J, a limited company, has complained that QIC Europe Ltd unfairly turned down its business 
interruption insurance claim after its business was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and 
gave it incorrect information.
Mrs L, a director of J, has brought the complaint on Js behalf.
What happened
J held a business interruption insurance policy with QIC. It runs a restaurant.
On 17 March 2020 Mrs L contacted her broker to ask whether J would be covered under its 
policy for business interruption losses if the restaurant was forced to close by lockdown 
restrictions. The broker contacted QIC who said J would be covered.
At the end of March J claimed on the policy for its business interruption losses caused by 
Covid-19 after it was required to close its restaurant due to lockdown restrictions. 
In late June QIC told J it was declining the claim as there was no evidence that thered been 
cases of Covid-19 at its premises. J appealed against this decision. It was told to wait for the 
outcome of a test case brought by the Financial Conduct Authority aimed at resolving the 
uncertainty around the validity of many business interruption insurance claims (the test 
case). 
J complained about having been mis-informed about the cover available under the policy. It 
said if it had known that it wouldnt be covered, it would have offered a take-away service 
during the lockdown. J also complained about being told to wait for the outcome of the test 
case which had no bearing on its claim.
J referred its complaint to our service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was 
minded to uphold the complaint in part. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether QIC has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Js claim.
The most relevant part of Js policy covers loss as a result of:
the occurrence at the Premises of murder, suicide, food or drink poisoning, vermin, pests, 
defective sanitation or any human infectious or contagious disease (excluding Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS related condition) an outbreak of which 
the Local or Government Authority has stipulated shall be notified to them.
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the loss to have been the result of a 
case of the notifiable disease occurring at the premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, as 
defined in the policy. As with any insurance claim, its for the claimant to demonstrate that an 
event covered by the policy has happened. Unfortunately for J it was unable to show that 
there had most likely been an occurrence of Covid-19 at its premises. So, I cant say that 
QIC treated it unfairly in not meeting its claim.
Having considered the rest of the policy I do not think there is an area of cover that means 
QIC should have met Js claim.
Ive looked at how QIC treated J from the time when it first enquired whether it would be 
covered for its business interruption losses if it were forced to close the restaurant by 
government restrictions. J says that if hadnt been told that it would be covered, then it would 
have offered a take-away service in order to minimise its losses. However, Im not 
persuaded thats the case as J didnt offer a take-away service during later lockdowns. So 
Im not convinced it would be fair to require QIC to reimburse J for the profit which it could 
have made during the first lockdown period if it had offered a take-away service.
Js policy didnt have wording similar to that in the policies which were the subject of the test 
case. So there was no reason for QIC to delay making a decision on Js claim on account of 
that. This caused J unnecessary inconvenience. Overall, taking into account this and the 
inconvenience caused to J by its original incorrect advice, I think the amount of £300 
recommended by our Investigator is fair and reasonable to compensate J for this. I 
understand that this has now been paid.
QIC didnt respond to my provisional decision. In summary Mr L said:
J doesnt have a figure it can share.
He didnt feel my provisional decision reflected what theyd been told.
He thought QIC should stick to its end of the bargain and pay the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As J and QIC dont have any further evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings and they now form part of this final decision.
I can understand that it must have been very disappointing for J that I have come to a 
different conclusion from that of our investigator. I issued a provisional decision because I 
wanted to give both parties an opportunity to make further representations before I made my 
final decision.
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer will 
decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the policy document. Unfortunately 
for J, in this case the terms of its policy mean its claim isnt covered.
Putting things right
To put things right I think QIC should pay J £300 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require QIC Europe Ltd to 
pay J compensation of £300 if that has not already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman