DRN-4007358
The complaint
Mr B is a sole trader, trading as S. He complains that ClearBank Limited (a Tide account) 
wont refund money he lost as a result of a fraud.
For ease, Ive made reference to ClearBank Limited throughout as Tide: as this is the party 
Mr B is familiar with.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
On 9 April 2022, Mr B received a text message, purporting to be from Tide, stating that 
suspicious activity had been detected on his account and that a member of its fraud 
prevention team would be in touch.
Mr B received this call as expected. But unfortunately, it later transpired that this was in fact 
a fraudster rather than a genuine representative of Tide. The fraudster convinced Mr B that 
there had been attempts of unauthorised activity on his account and that, in order to secure 
his funds, theyd need to be sent to a safe account.
The fraudster told Mr B that theyd set up another account and instructed him to transfer the 
balance of his account to the new account details provided. So, Mr B transferred £3,186.22 
to the account as instructed.
When Mr B became aware of the fraud, he reported it to Tide. After it had looked into the 
circumstances surrounding Mr Bs claim, Tide decided that it hadnt made an error. It said 
that it had contacted the beneficiary bank within a reasonable timeframe, and it was 
confirmed that no funds remained in the account. It disagreed with Mr Bs assertion that it 
should replace funds hed lost as a result of fraud. Overall, it felt it had handled the claim 
appropriately and didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B, unhappy with this outcome, brought his complaint to our service for an independent 
review. An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties but agreed Tide 
hadnt made an error. Broadly, the Investigator felt that the payment wasnt so unusual or out 
of character that intervention was warranted in the circumstances. They also felt that the 
bank fulfilled its obligation to attempt recovery of the funds in a reasonable timeframe.
Mr B, through a representative, disagreed with the Investigators assessment. While he 
agreed that the bank was reasonable in its attempt to recover the funds, he disagreed that 
the payment wasnt unusual or out of character.
As Mr B disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has now been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr B didnt intend for his money to be transferred to a fraudster, its accepted by both 
parties here that he authorised the payment in dispute. This means, in the first instance, hes 
presumed liable for his loss. However, banks do have other obligations I must consider.
Taking into account relevant laws and regulations, industry guidance and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time, banks are expected to be on the lookout for 
transactions that are out of character or unusual for a customers account. Broadly, this is to 
prevent the risk of fraud and financial crime  among other things. These obligations can be 
a difficult balance to strike when considering a banks obligation to process a customers 
instruction to make a payment without undue delay.
Here, Mr B was clearly a victim of a sophisticated fraud. The fraudster managed to use 
persuasive tactics to convince him they were a genuine representative of the bank. And 
having built that trust, he decided to transfer the amount of £3,186.22 from his account. 
However, Tide didnt intervene in this payment.
Having considered the evidence carefully, Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I dont find this 
was unreasonable considering the circumstances. I know this will come as a disappointment, 
as I appreciate Mr B did hold an honest belief he was dealing with his genuine bank, but I 
hope my reasoning sufficiently explains why.
The account Mr B held, trading as S, was a business account. While I acknowledge that this 
fact doesnt downgrade the banks obligation to protect the account, it is a factor in how a 
bank might be expected to react to certain payments.
Business accounts, by their very nature, are operated in a different way to personal 
accounts. They typically make higher value transactions and tend to pay multiple new 
payees. Therefore, multiple interventions from banks can have a detrimental impact on a 
business ability to operate. 
I acknowledge that the transaction Mr B made here was higher than hed typically make on 
the account. But I dont think it was so out of character that it should have flagged as a risk. 
S had an active account and Mr B was making payments through multiple channels to 
multiple payees prior to the payment in dispute. I also find that an occasional higher payment 
was in line with how the account was being operated and what a bank would typically see 
with business accounts.
The payment also lacks some of the other characteristics Id associate with one that could 
be deemed at risk: such as a complete or almost complete emptying of the account. After 
Mr B made the payment, several hundreds of pounds remained in the account. Safe account 
scams, which is the common name for this type of fraud, typically see an account emptied in 
one transaction or with a quick succession of payments. Neither of these occurred here. 
Overall, Im persuaded that Tide were reasonable in not flagging or intervening in the 
payment.
Both parties are also in agreement that Tide carried out the correct process by attempting to 
recover Mr Bs funds. It contacted the beneficiary account within circa half an hour of being 
put on notice. And it has been confirmed that the funds were removed from the beneficiary 
account within minutes of the payment being made. So, for clarity, I dont find Tide has acted 
unfairly here.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman