DRN-2203838
Complaint 
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Miss A says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BOS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss A disagrees so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss As case.
I dont think this policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss A says that she followed BOSs advisors recommendation to include PPI and she 
assumed the policy was required. BOS says it wouldve made the optional nature of the PPI 
clear and it only added it to her account after she agreed to it. Where there is a dispute like 
this, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on all the available evidence. 
I can see Miss A completed a separate form for the PPI  she answered the eligibility 
questions and signed the form. She was given several quotes for different mortgages and 
they included a separate cost for the PPI. I think its clear that the PPI is a separate product 
with a separate cost  and theres nothing on these documents that indicate the PPI is 
compulsory - it isnt a condition of the mortgage that Miss A takes PPI for example.
I appreciate that Miss A may have followed advice given by BOS but following advice 
doesnt mean the policy was set out as mandatory  ultimately it looks like it was clear that 
the PPI was optional. I think its more likely BOS made it clear Miss A didnt have to take out 
the PPI and she chose to take it out. 
BOS recommended the PPI to Miss A so it had to check the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, 
she was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. It also looks like it was affordable. 
Miss A says she was employed and had six months full followed by six months half sick pay 
provided by her employer. But this policy wouldve provided cover for up to 24 months if 
Miss A had been off work for illness or injury. Miss A says she was told that the policy would 
only pay out for 12 months  but even if that were true, I still think it wouldve been useful 
especially for the period after her employer stopped paying her the full sick pay she was 
entitled to. These PPI policies varied from year to year and some policies provided cover for 
12 months and some provided cover for 24 months. But I have checked the correct terms 
that applied to Miss A, and her policy says it wouldve provided cover for 24 months. 
The policy would also have paid out if she became unemployed. I appreciate Miss A was in 
secure employment, but insurance is taken out to protect yourself against the unexpected - 
and its impossible to legislate for future events. If circumstances changed in the future and 
her employer announced redundancies, Miss A could be at risk of losing her job. If this 
happened, I think she wouldve found it difficult to make her mortgage repayments. 
 
Miss A has sent in evidence of savings she had, but these are from many years after the 
sale of the PPI and I have to consider her circumstances when she took the PPI. Miss A has 
also sent in a PPI policy she had with a loan with a different provider. But this doesnt mean 
it wouldve helped with this mortgage  most PPI policies only covered the payments of the 
credit with which it was taken out. 
Based on what I have seen, I think the PPI wouldve been useful for her and I dont think 
BOS was wrong to recommend it. Had she been unexpectedly out of work, I think having the 
policy pay out in difficult times wouldve been useful. This is especially true for Miss A who 
was solely responsible for this mortgage. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Miss A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Miss A says she was never given the full policy terms for example. But I think she 
chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. As Ive said above, she 
wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions and it seems like it would have been useful for 
her if something went wrong. Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Miss A has also re-iterated that BOS didnt disclose the amount of commission that she was 
charged. Ive thought about whether BOS needs to give Miss A some of the commission she 
paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance only apply to agreements that 
were still running in April 2008 (if the credit was taken out before April 2007). And BOS has 
shown us her mortgage agreement ended before this time. So, BOS doesnt need to refund 
any of the commission Miss A paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman