DRN-2662646
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about the cancellation of a boiler insurance policy by Aviva Insurance
Limited.
Aviva Insurance Limited uses agents to deal with claims and complaints on its behalf. Any
reference to Aviva in this decision, includes those agents.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in February 2021, part of which is copied 
below:
Mr S held a landlords insurance policy with Aviva for several years. His first policy was
cancelled in May 2018 and he took out a second policy in July 2018. He has made
complaints about claims made under both policies. I will summarise the background to these
complaints below:
Policy 1 Claim 1
In late 2017, Mr S made a claim as his boiler was not working properly. Avivas contractor
said the pump needed to be replaced. However, the contractor also said the boiler was
located outside, which meant it was affected by damp and should be moved; and he could
not repair it, as the patio needed to be removed and the boiler taken out to get to the pump.
The contractor also said the flue needed to be fitted horizontally with no fall back to the
boiler and the external condensate pipe protected with suitable insulation.
Mr S was not happy with this and had an independent engineer carry out the repair without
the need to move the boiler, or the patio. He made a complaint to Aviva about its refusal to
do the repair. Aviva confirmed in response to this (in February 2018) that the boiler did in
fact meet the regulatory and manufacturers installation guidelines and while access to the
boiler was less than ideal, it accepted it could have been repaired. Aviva therefore agreed to
refund the cost of the repair (£928) and paid Mr S £50 compensation for the inconvenience
of having to arrange his own engineer and accommodating the additional repair visit.
Policy 1 Claim 2
In February 2018, Mr S made a further claim as the boiler was faulty. Aviva refused to work
on the boiler, as it said again that it is installed incorrectly. Avivas contractor said again that
the boilers location outside the main property, means it is dangerous for its contractors to
work on. The contractors also said part of the boiler cover was missing and there was an
issue with the flue.
While Aviva looked into this, Mr S got his own engineer to repair the boiler and asked Aviva
to reimburse the cost. He also had to run a temporary heater and boil kettles for hot water.
Aviva maintained that the boiler was not installed correctly and cancelled the policy and told
Mr S he would need to have the boiler replaced. Aviva said if this was not rectified, it would
cancel the policy. Aviva subsequently cancelled the policy on 8 May 2018. However, Aviva
also said that the previous service visits had highlighted access problems to the boiler but
not any safety issue with its position. It apologised for this not having been pointed out to
Mr S before and therefore agreed to reimburse his repair costs of £1,437 and also paid
compensation of £200 for the poor service provided. Aviva also refunded the cost of three
annual services (£271.44) as the engineers had not raised any issue with regard to the
location of the boiler installation before.
Mr S sent some photos to Aviva, as evidence that the boiler was safe. Aviva still said the flue
was not positioned correctly and it would need further evidence before it would consider
reinstating the policy. As far as I am aware, no other evidence was provided.
Policy 2 and Claim 1
In July 2018, Mr S took out another policy with Aviva and made a claim under that policy in
September 2018, as the boiler had broken down. Aviva arranged an appointment for a
contractor to look at the boiler. However, before the appointment took place, Aviva told Mr S
it could not attend as it still had concerns about the way the boiler had been installed, which
it says made it unsafe for its engineers to work on.
Mr S complained about this and said he had provided photographs to confirm hed had
remedial work done to the boiler. Aviva issued a final response letter on this complaint in
October 2018. It accepted it should not have issued the new policy in July 2018, and it
should have asked for more evidence of the remedial work having been done. Aviva said if
Mr S could now provide such evidence it would reconsider and offered £30 compensation for
setting up the policy without checking properly that the work had been done.
Mr S sent a report from an independent gas engineer that the boiler flue was correctly
installed and subsequent to this, Aviva reinstated the policy in November 2018.
Policy 2 Claim 2
Mr S made another claim on 2 January 2019, as the boiler kept shutting off and he was
having to reset it frequently. One of Avivas contractors attended on 5 January 2019. Aviva
says Mr S would not allow him in, as he said the appointment was meant to be on 7 January
2019. Aviva says this was not correct but its engineer went back out a few days later. Aviva
says its contractor confirmed, having looked at the boiler, that the remedial work they had
said was required in 2018 had still not been done and it still considered the boiler was not
safe to work on.
As Mr S was unhappy with this, Aviva agreed to send another engineer for a second opinion.
Aviva says the second contractor agreed the boiler had not been safely installed. Aviva
therefore cancelled the policy again in early February 2019. Aviva issued a final response
letter on this complaint in March 2019. Aviva offered £60 for the confusion with the
appointment that was initially arranged and didnt think it needed to do anything more. Mr S
is very unhappy with this. He says that as Aviva wouldnt repair the boiler, he had to replace
it and he wants Aviva to reimburse these costs. He says he paid £2,600 for the boiler and
installation costs.
Mr S says Aviva has previously worked on his boiler without any issue being raised about
the installation. He also says that Aviva should have come and inspected the boiler to
ensure it could provide the cover when he took out the policies.
Aviva responded to Mr S again in August 2019. It said it shouldnt have allowed a new policy
to start in July 2018 and refunded the premiums Mr S had paid (i.e. £154). Aviva also paid
£90 compensation for the inconvenience and confusion caused in relation to theappointment.
Jurisdiction
Before considering the complaint, the investigator determined whether we are allowed to
look at the complaints, as we are not allowed to look at every complaint referred to us.
I agree with the investigator that we have jurisdiction to look at the issues complained about
from April 2018 onwards, i.e. the handing of policy 2 claims 1 and 2. For the sake of
completeness, I will explain why.
Our rules (set out in the Dispute Resolution section of the Financial Conduct Authority
Handbook) provide that we cannot look at a complaint if it was made to us more than six
months after the date on which the business sent the consumer its final response (unless it
consents or there are exceptional circumstances which caused the delay).1
Aviva issued four final responses to Mr S, one in response to the complaints about each of
the above claims, in: February 2018, April 2018, October 2018 and March 2019. Mr S came
to our service on 24 October 2019, which is more than six months after Avivas letters.
Mr S has not said the delay in referring the matters to us was due to any exceptional
circumstances. Aviva consented to us looking into the complaint it addressed in its final
response letter of March 2019 but did not consent to us looking into the prior complaints.
However, Aviva re-visited the issues that it had addressed in its final response letter of 22
October 2018 in August 2019, when it wrote to Mr S and changed its position by also
agreeing that the premiums Mr S had paid for the second policy should be refunded. As this
was a different outcome than it had set out in its final response letters of October 2018 and
March 2019, then the time limits set out in those letters no longer apply. We can therefore
look at any issues that arose since April 2018 (i.e. the matters raised and addressed by
Aviva in October 2018 and March 2019, in relation to policy 2, claims 1 and 2). I dont think I
can look at the actual cancellation of the first policy, as although this happened in May 2018,
the decision to cancel it had been made when Aviva wrote its final response letter of April
2018. Mr S and Aviva both accept this.
Investigators recommendation 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. The investigator didnt recommend that Mr 
Ss complaint be upheld. The investigator thought that Mr S was aware Aviva had concerns 
about the installation of the boiler and so, while Aviva shouldnt have allowed the policy to 
start again, this doesnt mean it should cover any claim. As it didnt think it was safe for its 
contractors to work on, the investigator said Aviva was entitled to decide it could not provide 
cover for the boiler. The investigator also said the initial service visit, when a new policy is 
set up, is not provided by Aviva, so he couldnt find it at fault for not carrying this service out.
Mr S doesnt accept the investigators assessment. He says Aviva has worked on his boiler
since telling him there was remedial work required; and the boiler was installed in 2013 and
the manufacturers contractors have attended on four occasions and not advised of any
issues with the installation.
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
1 DISP 2.8.2reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is generally up to insurers to decide what cover they are prepared to provide in exchange
for the premium charged. It is not, on the face of it, unreasonable for an insurer to decide
that it is not prepared to insure a boiler which it says is unsafe. However, Aviva initially
agreed to cover the boiler and only told Mr S it would not cover it after having issued a policy
in July 2018. I have to therefore consider whether Aviva had the right to cancel the policy
having entered into that insurance contract with Mr S.
The policy provides that Aviva may cancel this policy by giving you at least 7 days' notice in
writing to the last address you provided us if you're seriously in breach of the terms of your
policy. Examples of a serious breach include failure to make a payment despite contact from
us, failure to provide complete and accurate answers to the questions we ask (see the
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 section on Important
Information; submitting a fraudulent claim or if you use threatening or abusive behaviour
towards our engineers or staff. If we cancel the policy we'll refund the premium paid for the
remaining period of cover, unless you've made a claim.
I have seen no evidence that there has been a serious breach of contract by Mr S that would
warrant cancellation of the policy mid-term. It seems to me that Aviva is effectively saying
that either Mr S misrepresented the position regarding his boiler, when he applied for the
policy in July 2018 (and it would not have issued the new policy, if it had known he had not
rectified the issues it had raised about the boiler); or it made a mistake and should not have
issued the policy to him.
I have not seen any evidence that anything Mr S said when taking out the policy in July 2018
qualifies as a misrepresentation in accordance with the relevant legislation.2 Aviva says that
it was a mistake to issue the new policy in July 2018 and reinstate it in November 2018.
However, even if Aviva made a mistake, it is only allowed to rely on that mistake as reason
to void the contract, if it can be established that Mr S was aware of that mistake at the
relevant times. I dont think that has been established from the evidence I have seen.
Mr S knew that Aviva had concerns about the safety of his boiler but he disagreed with its
assessment and had provided evidence he says supported his position. He may therefore
have been aware Aviva issued the new policy by mistake. However, Aviva had changed its
mind about the safety of the boiler before, as it had confirmed it was installed properly and
was safe in its final response letter of February 2018. And, Aviva cancelled the policy in
October 2018 and asked for more evidence about the safety of the boiler again. Mr S
provided more evidence and, having received that, Aviva reinstated the policy in November
2018. Aviva therefore affirmed the contract. I do not think it can therefore rely on any mistake
made in July 2018, given it reinstated the policy, thereby confirming it was prepared to offer
cover in November 2018.
Aviva also had the opportunity to check the boiler itself at any time.
The policy includes a boiler health check:
Boiler Health Check: Your policy includes provision for a BHC (including a boiler service) by
HomeServe, in the first year of your policy (or if you change address). This is not an element
of insurance and therefore it is not part of the contract of insurance underwritten by the
Underwriter and it is not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
2 Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012This also means that if you have any complaint relating to this service, you will not have the
right to refer the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. We will carry out a BHC of
your boiler and/or central heating system within the first 90 days of the start date of your
policy to assess whether your boiler passes our criteria
If you report a problem with your boiler and/or central heating system before we have
completed the BHC, we will carry out this when we attend to assess the problem with your
boiler and/or central heating system Your boiler and/or central heating system will need to
pass our criteria before we carry out a repair.
The investigator says that this boiler health check is not provided by Aviva and so cannot be
considered. However, if the boiler health check is intended as a test of the boiler to ensure
Aviva is willing to insure it, I think it is relevant to this complaint.
As I understand it no boiler health check was carried out in relation to the second policy
(issued in July 2018) within the first 90 days of cover or afterwards. Given that this is to
ensure eligibility for cover and given the particular concerns raised about Mr Ss boiler, I
would have thought this would have been done. Aviva had the opportunity to ensure it was
happy to provide the cover Mr S was paying for and didnt take it.
Aviva also had several other opportunities to check the boiler and it affirmed the contract and
reinstated cover. Having done so, I do not think it was fair or reasonable for it to void the
policy again in February 2019 after Mr S made another claim.
In addition, even if Aviva had established that the insurance contract was voidable due to a
mistake (which I dont think it has) it seems to me there is still a legitimate debate about
whether the boiler was correctly installed or not. Mr S has provided evidence that it was, and
as noted above, Aviva had also confirmed it was in February 2018. And, again as noted, it
had serviced the boiler previously, without raising any issue about the safety of the
installation. I have seen the service certificate dated 2015 which records the boiler is located
outside but doesnt raise any issue about this; one dated 2016, which also records it is
outside and simply says boiler access is poor; and the one in 2017 says Boilers position 
allows only partial service.
Having determined that the policy should have remained in place, I have to consider what
would have happened, had Aviva considered the claim as it should have done. Mr S says
the boiler had to be replaced. The policy does not cover replacement of the boiler if it is
within the first six months of the policy. Mr S took out this policy on 2 July 2018 and I
understand the claim that led to the boiler needing replacing was made on 2 January 2019,
so the policy was exactly six months old. I think the boiler replacement cover was therefore
in place. However, Ive seen no evidence about what was wrong with the boiler at this point
and why it was replaced. I assume it was considered uneconomical to repair but without
further evidence, I cannot determine whether Aviva should meet any of the cost of a new
boiler yet. I would ask Mr S to provide further information about this in response to this
provisional decision.
In addition, the policy would only cover the cost of the boiler itself and not the installation
costs, if the insured boiler was over seven years old. I understand Mr Ss boiler was over
seven years old, so he would not have been entitled to the full cost of replacing his boiler in
any event, even if the policy had not been cancelled.
As stated, there is little evidence about what was wrong with the boiler. At this stage
therefore, I can only ask Aviva to reinstate the policy and reconsider the claim. I would ask
both parties to provide further information about this in response to this provisional decision.I also consider that some compensation is warranted for the wrongful handling of the claim
and cancellation of the policies. I consider a total of £350 is appropriate. This should include
the £154 policy refund, as if the policy had been kept in place, as it should have been then
Mr S would have had to pay that. So Aviva only needs to pay the balance of £196.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. reinstate the policy for July 2018 to July 2019; and
2. reconsider the claim; and
3. pay £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of the
claim (less the premium refund of £154).
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information they 
want considered. 
Mr S has responded and says his heating engineer confirmed the boiler was beyond 
economic repair and a new boiler would be required. Mr S has provided a copy of the letter 
dated 29 July 2019 from his engineer stating the boiler was beyond repair, as the 
combustion box was showing signs of corrosion and the boiler had deteriorated in the 
previous few months. Mr S therefore had the boiler replaced in October 2019 and has 
provided a copy of the invoice for this work and a breakdown. Instead of asking Aviva to 
reconsider the claim, Mr S asks that I require it to reimburse the amount he paid. Mr S also 
asks that full compensation of £500 be paid, with no deductions and says there would be no 
point in reinstating the policy as the original policy would have expired by now and he has 
had the boiler has been replaced. 
Aviva has also confirmed receipt of my provisional decision. It has said the letter from Mr Ss 
engineer (dated 29 July 2019) is dated after the cover would have ended, and how do they 
know the deterioration has happened over the past few months? Why could this
not have happened the few weeks prior to their visit? Furthermore, how has the corrosion
occurred? Is it because of where the boiler is situated or is it because there was a leak?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If Mr S wants the replacement boiler cover, there needs to be a policy in place, so it does 
need to be reinstated from the date it was cancelled. I agree that he would not need it after 
he had a new boiler. I understand the policy was cancelled in February 2019 and the 
premiums Mr S paid from July 2018 to February 2019 were reimbursed to him. So Aviva is 
entitled to this amount, plus the premiums that would have been payable from February to   
1 July 2019 (when the policy was due to end). This can be deducted from any amount Aviva 
is required to pay Mr S. 
The policy would have ended on 1 July 2019. Mr Ss gas engineers letter in which he says 
the boiler is beyond repair is dated 29 July 2019, which is around four weeks after that policy 
would have come to an end. And the boiler was replaced in October 2019. Aviva therefore 
says there was no cover in place then. Mr S made a claim in January 2019 and by July 2019, his engineer said the boiler had 
deteriorated to the extent that it was beyond repair. I accept that there is not much detail 
available about what was wrong with the boiler in January 2019 and why it deteriorated to 
the point that it was not repairable. Aviva questions if this was due to its location but as I 
consider it had accepted the cover, and the fact I do not think it has established the boiler 
had been incorrectly installed, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont think 
this is relevant. If Aviva had not wrongfully cancelled the policy and refused the claim, it 
would have had the opportunity to inspect the boiler itself. It has lost that opportunity now 
and the only evidence available is from Mr Ss engineer. He has said the boiler was beyond 
economic repair and there is no evidence to counter this. And, even if the fact the boiler 
needed to be replaced was not linked to the January 2019 claim, it seems unlikely to me that 
the deterioration of the boiler to the extent that it became uneconomical to repair would have 
happened solely between 2 July and 29 July 2019. I am therefore satisfied that it is more 
likely than not the fault with the boiler that meant it had to be replaced, arose during the 
period of cover and the boiler replacement section of cover was in place. 
In my opinion it would therefore be reasonable for Aviva to meet the claim. As stated in my 
provisional decision the policy would only cover the cost of the replacement boiler and not 
the cost of installation. Mr Ss engineer has confirmed that the boiler cost £1,150 and so 
Aviva should reimburse Mr S this cost.  
I also still consider that a total of £350 compensation is appropriate for the wrongful handling 
of the claim and cancellation of the policies. This should include the £154 policy refund, as if 
the policy had been kept in place, as it should have been then Mr S would have had to pay 
that; and any premiums due from February 2019 to July 2019. So Aviva only needs to pay 
the remaining balance.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited and require it to do the following: 
1. reinstate the policy for July 2018 to July 2019; and
2. pay the sum of £1,150 for the replacement boiler; and
3. pay £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of the
claim (less the premium refund of £154 and premiums due from February to July 2019).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman