DRN-4216767
The complaint
Miss H complains about a declined buyer dispute claim through her account with PayPal 
(Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (PayPal).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss H signed up to PayPals User Agreement when she opened her account. 
The User Agreement says. 
To be eligible for PayPal's Buyer Protection you must meet all of the following 
requirements:
Not have received a recovery or agreed to an alternative resolution related to your 
purchase from another source.
It also says
You must choose whether to pursue a dispute with PayPal under our Buyer Protection 
program, or to pursue the dispute with your card issuer. You can't do both at the same 
time or seek a double recovery. If you pursue a dispute/claim with us and you also 
pursue a dispute for the same transaction with your card issuer, we'll close your 
dispute/claim with us. This won't affect the dispute process with your card issuer. In 
addition, if you pursue a dispute with your card issuer, you cannot pursue a 
dispute/claim with us later.
Miss H has confirmed to me that she raised a successful chargeback with her card 
issuer. So, Im satisfied that its both fair and in line with the User Agreement when 
PayPal declined and closed her claim. 
PayPal have also sent evidence it returned the funds to the card issuer. So, this 
further satisfies that the chargeback was successful, and PayPal have fulfilled any 
obligation it had to return the funds. 
If Miss H hasnt received her funds back from her card issuer, she would need to 
raise a complaint with them. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman