DRN-4090727
The complaint
Mr B complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) cancelled his motor 
insurance policy without his knowledge.
What happened
Mr B took out a motor insurance policy with Acromas covering his car in September 2021. 
The policy was arranged through a broker.
As part of his application for this policy, Mr B had said he had eight years No Claims 
Discount (NCD).
Acromas asked for proof of this. It emailed and wrote to him three times. It used the address 
hed used to set up the policy, but hed moved house so didnt get the letters. And he said he 
might have not noticed or read the emails. 
Because Acromas didnt get the proof, it cancelled his policy about a month after it had 
incepted. 
Shortly after, Mr B set up a second policy at the same address, with a new car. This policy 
was also cancelled about a month later due to Acromas not receiving proof of his NCD.
Mr B was stopped by the police for driving without insurance in late January 2022. He said 
he wasnt aware of the cancellation as hed made two payments. He bought a new policy 
immediately, but was given a fine and points on his licence for driving without insurance.
The offence code and points meant that he couldnt get a job as an HGV driver and hed 
spent thousands of pounds getting qualified to do this.
Mr B says he told Acromas about his new address in September 2021. Acromas said it had 
no record that hed asked it to update his address before he rang it in late January 2022.
Acromas didnt uphold his complaint. It said itd tried to contact Mr B about his proof of NCD 
and had cancelled his policy when he didnt respond. 
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and didnt uphold it. He said he thought Acromas policy wording allowed it to cancel 
the policy, and there was no evidence that Mr B had provided the correct updated address. 
Acromas had also used two different methods to try and contact Mr B.
Mr B didnt agree with the view. He asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has provided this service with extensive correspondence after the view. Hes said that 
the conviction was later removed by a court following a statutory declaration. This usually 
means that his driving licence has had the code and points removed from it.
He asks that Acromas pay him loss of earnings for the period he wasnt able to work as an 
HGV driver, as well as the cost of hiring a solicitor to have the conviction removed from his 
licence.
Ive read the file of evidence carefully and, while I appreciate my decision will be 
disappointing to Mr B, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Acromas has provided evidence that it asked Mr B three times for his proof of NCD by 
emailing him and writing to him. By doing this, Acromas has demonstrated good practise in 
contacting its client by two different methods. 
Acromas wrote to Mr B at the address hed provided it and although hes said he had 
updated his address with Acromas, Ive not seen evidence that he did this.
Mr B has also asked why Acromas didnt contact him by phone given the importance of the 
message it was trying to get to him. I take his point here, but Mr B provided his contact 
details in order to set up the policy, and hes told our investigator that he may have missed 
emails sent to him. 
There would have been at least six emails about this matter (spread over the two policies he 
took out) and I cant fairly say that Mr Bs failure to notice these emails, or ensure his 
address was correct, is the fault of Acromas.
Mr B has also mentioned the payments he thought he was making for his policy. Ive looked 
at Acromas explanation of these, which apply variously to the three policies he set up on 
September, November and January. Having reviewed the timeline, its clear to me that Mr B 
only paid for the parts of cover he had, before Acromas cancelled the first two policies, and I 
dont think its acted unfairly. 
Acromas policy wording allows it to cancel a policy and this part of the policy wording is 
relevant:
We may cancel this policy by giving you seven days notice by recorded delivery 
letter to your last known address. This policy may be cancelled where there is a valid 
reason, for example if: 
you fail to provide further information or documentation we have requested in writing:
- including but not limited to proof of your NCD.
This type of policy condition is common in the insurance marketplace and I think its use is 
fair and reasonable here. This point in the policy wording might also help Mr B understand 
why insurers contact customers in writing about the cancellation of a policy, rather than by 
telephone. 
It follows that I think Acromas reasonably asked Mr B to prove his NCD. When it wasnt 
received, Acromas cancelled his policy according to its terms and conditions. 
Mr B was then stopped by the policy and prosecuted. 
I appreciate the impact on Mr Bs livelihood as a result of this action, but I dont think Acromas has acted unfairly in carrying out the actions it has, so Im not going to uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman