DRN-3255070
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with how Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway dealt with her 
situation when she was in financial difficulty. She says was forced to enter into arrangements 
which werent affordable for her. And she says she wasnt told her agreement was 
terminated. 
She also says when she later repaid the balance, a charge was added unfairly.
What happened
Mrs S entered into a hire purchase agreement for a car with Moneyway in November 2016. 
The agreement was taken over five years with monthly repayments of £232.55. 
Unfortunately, Mrs S got into financial difficulty and the account was defaulted in October 
2018. 
In November 2019 Mrs S went into a payment plan to clear some arrears on the account. 
This arrangement was broken shortly after and another payment plan was put into place in 
mid December 2019. 
Mrs S spoke to Moneyway later in December and said she wouldnt be able to make the 
repayments on this arrangement. Mrs S was asked to complete an income and expenditure 
(I and E) form in order to look into another arrangement, which she requested was posted 
to her rather than doing it over the phone. 
On 15 January 2020 Mrs S called to make a partial payment - having not sent back the 
I and E form. She later found out the agreement had been terminated at this point, but she 
wasnt told about this on the phone.
Despite the agreement being terminated, it was again agreed for an arrangement to be put 
in place so Mrs S could keep the car. There were several calls about this, including Mrs S 
going through her I and E over the phone. She was advised on this call to finalise what she 
would be paying to other accounts before another arrangement was put in place.
At the end of January 2020 a further arrangement was put in place. This arrangement was 
then broken and in June 2020 the debt was passed to a third party collection and recovery 
agent.
Mrs S complained to Moneyway and it issued its final response in September 2020. This 
said, in summary, that the default notice issued made it clear if the requirements werent met 
the agreement could be terminated and details passed on to third party collection agents. It 
said the terms of the default werent met. It said the agreement was terminated due to 
arrears of £577.69. And it said Mrs S agreed the repayment plans were affordable for her but 
she didnt adhere to these.
Mrs S brought the complaint to our service. She said she had told Moneyway the 
arrangements were not affordable before they were set up. She wasnt happy the agreement 
was terminated. And she was unhappy with the debt being passed on. 
While we were looking into things, Mrs S said she had a change of circumstances and 
repaid the balance in full. But, she said Moneyway charged her £264 which she shouldnt 
have to pay. She complained to Moneyway about this.
Moneyway issued a second final response in May 2021. This explained it was upholding this 
part of the complaint and had removed the £264 charge from Mrs Ss account - as she 
hadnt been made aware of this before it was charged. Moneyway then agreed we could 
look at both parts of the complaint under this case.
Our investigator issued an opinion explaining she didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She said, in summary, that she had listened to the calls between Mrs S and 
Moneyway. She said it was reasonable for Moneyway to terminate the agreement when it 
did. She said Moneyway didnt apply undue pressure to enter into the arrangements and 
Mrs S agreed to them. She said she thought it was reasonable for the debt to be passed on 
as there was no contact from Mrs S after the final arrangement was broken. And she said 
while Moneyway shouldve discussed other options with Mrs S, she thought it was clear she 
wanted to keep the car.
In relation to the £264, our investigator thought as this had been removed from the account 
nothing further needed to be done here.
Mrs S disagreed. She said, in summary, that she told Moneyway several times the 
arrangements were unaffordable for her at the time. She said there was no room for 
variation in outgoings for food, petrol or emergencies under the arrangements. She said 
Moneyway shouldve adapted its approach because of her health. She said Moneyway 
shouldnt have asked for more than her council tax repayments. And she said she wanted to 
sell the car or voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement but she wasnt allowed.
Our investigator disagreed and said Mrs S didnt tell Moneyway the agreements werent 
affordable. She said it appeared Moneyway werent aware of Mrs Ss health issues and she 
said Mrs S couldnt have VTd the agreement when she asked to as it had been terminated.
The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mrs S complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mrs Ss complaint against 
Moneyway.
What I need to consider here is whether Moneyway treated Mrs S fairly and reasonably 
when she entered in the repayment arrangements. I want to reassure Mrs S that I have 
considered everything shes said in relation to her complaint. But Im going to concentrate on 
what I think are the key issues here.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations 
and guidance. There are several things Moneyway needed to consider here, including what 
is set out by the Financial Conduct Authority in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
CONC 7.3.4 says:A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration
So, Ill consider if I think Moneyway did this.
I should note that by the time the arrangements were put in place, the account had defaulted 
- and Mrs S hadnt satisfied the default  some time ago.
Ive listened to the calls between Mrs S and Moneyway from this time. Mrs S feels strongly 
that she explained the arrangements were unaffordable during most of these calls. But I 
dont agree here.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs S told Moneyway on these calls. During the initial call 
in November 2019 Mrs S explained the reason she was behind with her payments was that 
she had started to be paid weekly rather than monthly, she did not say she was unable to 
afford the payments. After discussing some different amounts, it was arranged for her to pay 
£78.02 a week. Mrs S agreed to this and didnt mention she thought this was unaffordable. 
On the first call in December, Mrs S is asked why the above arrangement was broken but 
she said she didnt want to talk about it. It is mentioned it would cost around £77.82 a week 
to bring the account up to date. The advisor  not Mrs S -  said they had concerns with this 
as the previous arrangement was broken and suggested going through Mrs Ss I and E with 
her to see what was affordable. Mrs S was quite insistent that she just wanted to set an 
arrangement up and said she would pay it. An arrangement was set up for £74.49 a week, 
which Mrs S agreed was fine. She didnt mention on this call that it is unaffordable.
On the second call in December, Mrs S called to stop the arrangement as she said she 
overspent money on Christmas  she gave this specific reason and didnt say the 
repayments were generally unaffordable. It was again suggested to Mrs S that the 
arrangement might not have been affordable for her and it might be better to pay the arrears 
back over a longer period and complete an I and E form. Mrs S initially says she doesnt 
want to do this and wants to carry on paying as before, as she said she would have funds 
from the following month. Moneyway then insisted an I and E is completed. Mrs S said she 
didnt want to do this on the phone and asked for it to be sent to her.
Mrs S then called on 15 January 2020 to make a partial payment to the account. It appears 
she hadnt returned the I and E form at this time. Its not mentioned on this call that the 
agreement was terminated. I dont know why this was  but I accept being the same day the 
staff member might not have been aware of this. But I do think ideally Mrs S shouldve been 
told this on the call. I do note however that a letter was sent out the same day. Given this, I 
dont think any further action needs to be taken here.
I have considered whether it was fair and reasonable for Moneyway to terminate the 
agreement at this point. Looking at the account history and arrears, I dont think Moneyway 
did anything wrong by terminating the agreement. I say this as the account had consistently 
been in arrears for a significant amount of time, arrangements had been broken and Mrs S 
had been warned several times about the account being terminated if the arrears werent 
cleared. 
Mrs S called back later in January to discuss things. Despite the termination, Moneyway 
explained it would try to work with her to keep the car. At this time a full I and E was 
completed, but Mrs S explained she didnt know what her council tax payments will be as 
this was currently being arranged. Mrs S said she thought she could afford to pay £300 a 
month to the arrangement and she was asked to find out her full outgoings before an 
arrangement was put in place.Mrs S called back again later in January and explained what her council tax payments would 
be. At this time, an arrangement of £381.17 a month is suggested by Moneyway. Mrs S 
voices concerns with this as she says this is all of her disposable income. She suggests 
paying £300 per month. Its agreed she needs to speak to her other creditors before 
anything is set up. 
I think this call couldve been handled better by Moneyway. Its clear Mrs S didnt think the 
suggested arrangement was affordable to her. I think the advisor couldve treated her with a 
little more consideration here and discussed what she thought was affordable to pay in more 
detail rather than suggesting 100% of her disposable income is used to pay back the 
arrears. That being said, the arrangement Mrs S said was unaffordable was not put in place.
At the end of January the final call took place about the arrangements. Mrs S again said she 
couldnt afford £380 but could afford £300. An arrangement is set up for £307.17, which is in 
line with the I and E Mrs S told Moneyway about. Mrs S doesnt say this is unaffordable.
I have considered what Mrs S said about this arrangement being unaffordable because it 
didnt allow for variation in food, petrol or emergencies. But, Mrs S was asked about all of 
her outgoings, including what her food and petrol costs were, as part of the I and E. And, 
Moneyway explained to her when going through her outgoings that if she had an emergency 
she could call them to discuss this.
I know Mrs S is unhappy she was asked to repay more to this on this arrangement than to 
her council tax. It appears she was asked to pay less than £8 more a month to this 
repayment than to her council tax. The council tax repayments were considered under her I 
and E. And she didnt tell Moneyway this was an issue at the time. So, I dont think this 
wouldve had a significant impact and I dont think I need to consider this further.
I also noted that on most of the calls Mrs S is advised to get in touch with debt charities or 
the citizens advice bureau for help. One of the advisors spent quite some time explaining 
the benefits of this to Mrs S, rather than keeping on making arrangements. Mrs S explained 
each time she already had the details and wanted to sort things out herself. 
I know Mrs S feels strongly that Moneyway shouldve taken her health into consideration. 
But, Mrs S didnt mention her health until the final call once the agreement had been passed 
on.
I was disappointed to hear that no alternative options to a payment arrangement were 
discussed with Mrs S during the initial calls before the agreement was terminated. I wouldve 
expected to hear Moneyway go through alternatives to payment arrangements, such as 
privately selling the car, voluntarily terminating the agreement or voluntarily surrendering the 
car. That being said I think on balance that its unlikely Mrs S wouldve taken any of these 
options as its clear she wanted to keep the car.
I have considered whether Moneyway acted fairly when it passed on the debt to a third party 
collection agent. But, Moneyway left a period of a few months between the final arrangement 
being broken and the debt being passed on. It appears Mrs S was not in touch with 
Moneyway during this time. Given the account status at this point, I dont think it did anything 
wrong here.
Ive listened to the final call between Mrs S and Moneyway in July 2020. Two staff members 
can be heard talking when the call is placed on hold and Mrs S is being passed between 
them. I know Mrs S has listened to this call herself and she is unhappy with the staff 
discussing the case and questioning what shed told them  but I dont think the general 
discussion here was an issue.I understand Mrs Ss point that the staff member who puts the call through at the end of the 
conversation says to her colleague, after explaining the situation to her, sorry my dear. Ive 
thought carefully about this. However, I dont agree this was offensive as Mrs S had said. I 
do think this is perhaps a little unprofessional, but I think its fair to say that at this time the 
relationship between Moneyway and Mrs S had very clearly broken down and Mrs S was 
obviously not happy to be speaking to the staff. Taking everything into account, I dont think 
any action needs to be taken here.
In relation to the complaint Mrs S later raised, Moneyway has upheld this part of the 
complaint and explained it didnt give Mrs S notification of the £264 charge. It said to put this 
right, it removed this charge from her account. I think this is a fair and reasonable thing to do 
here and Moneyway doesnt need to take any further action on this point.
Ive very carefully thought about all of this. In summary, I do think the service Mrs S received 
fell below what she couldve expected in some parts. When discussing the arrangements I 
think the call from 24 January 2020 couldve been handled a little better  although I do need 
to consider that the arrangement Mrs S said she couldnt afford was not set up. 
I think other options shouldve been discussed with Mrs S during the initial calls, but I dont 
think its likely this wouldve affected things as she wanted to keep the car. And, I have to 
consider that she now owns the car outright, so I dont think this has impacted her long term.
This being said, I dont agree with Mrs S that she was forced into taking arrangements that 
were unaffordable. Moneyway was reliant on what Mrs S told it. On the calls where 
arrangements are set up, Mrs S agrees she can make the payments or doesnt object to 
them. Mrs S was asked to explain her situation and finances in more detail on occasions 
which she declined. It was suggested earlier on for Mrs S to discuss her I and E so 
Moneyway could lower her repayments, which she also declined. 
When Moneyway did complete an I and E this was in some detail and Mrs S wasnt asked to 
pay anything more than her disposable income towards the agreement. And, Moneyway 
consistently offered her contact details for other organisations which may have helped her, 
which she also declined.
Finally, I have considered that Mrs Ss account was in arrears for a significant amount of 
time, was defaulted and had several broken payment arrangements before Moneyway 
terminated it. And, even at this point it continued to offer Mrs S ways to keep the car. 
I want to reassure Mrs S that Ive carefully considered all of the points shes made and 
everything shes said in relation to this complaint. But, taking everything into account, while I 
do think Moneyway couldve done better in some places, overall I dont think they need to 
take any action to put this right and so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman