DRN-2103386
The complaint
Mr P complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited didnt make him 
aware his whole-of-life policy was reviewable, and that it didnt warn him it was going to 
lapse.
What happened
Mr P took out a whole-of-life assurance policy in 1987. The policy was taken over by Sun 
Life. In 2014 Sun Life wrote to Mr P to tell him that he needed to make changes to his 
premium or sum assured for his policy to continue. It said that if he did nothing, his policy 
would lapse when the fund was exhausted.
In 2016, Sun Life sent Mr P a letter to say his policy had lapsed. In 2019, Mr P complained. 
His representative said he wasnt aware his policy had failed a review or had lapsed. He said 
Mr P hadnt received any of the letters and only found out when he looked into when his 
payments had stopped being taken. Mr P said he wasnt aware his policy was reviewable. 
Hed like his policy to be reinstated or for his premiums to be refunded.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. She firstly explained that she couldnt 
consider the complaint about the policy being reviewable. This was because it was made too 
late. She explained that Sun Life didnt consent to us considering that aspect of the 
complaint. And that our rules give strict time limits about when complaints need to be made. 
In this case she explained that it was more than six years since the event  the sale of the 
policy  and more than three years since Mr P shouldve been aware that his policy was 
reviewable, which wouldve been 2014 when it failed its review. As such, this complaint was 
made too late and she couldnt consider it.
The investigator did consider the complaint about the policy lapsing. She explained that Sun 
Life had sent out a letter in 2014 and a reminder to say that the policy will cease if action 
wasnt taken. She understood that Mr P says he didnt receive these letters, but Sun Life has 
sent us copies and they were addressed correctly, so she thought it was likely they were 
sent correctly. She felt Sun Life had done enough here so didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr P disagreed. His representative said he felt Sun Life should have done more to alert Mr P 
to the fact his policy was lapsing. He felt that yearly reminders should have been a minimum 
requirement. So, he asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Reviewable nature of the policy
Mr P has complained that he wasnt aware his policy was reviewable. But I cant consider 
this part of his complaint because it was made too late.
The rules under which this service operates can be found in the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook under DISP. These say that, unless a business consents or there are exceptional 
circumstances, I cant consider a complaint that has been raised more than six years after 
the date of event complained about or, if later, more than three years from when the 
complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, he had cause for complaint.
In this particular case Sun Life hasnt consented to us considering this complaint point. And 
the complaint is about the sale of the policy as this is when Mr P shouldve been told it was 
reviewable. This is more than six years ago. So, Ive looked at when Mr P ought to have 
been aware that his policy was reviewable. I can see that the policy was reviewed in 1999, 
2004, 2009 and 2014. I can see each time letters were sent to Mr P, and in 2014 the policy 
review failed. This meant changes needed to be made. So, I think the latest Mr P ought to 
have known that the policy was reviewable was 2014. He didnt complain to Sun Life until 
2019  more than three years later.
 
Mr P has said he didnt receive the review letter in 2014, but I can see that it was addressed 
correctly and I think it was likely it was sent. So, I dont think there are exceptional 
circumstances here which prevented Mr P complaining in time about the reviewable nature 
of the policy. So, I agree with the investigator that we cannot consider this complaint point.
Policy lapse
Mr Ps policy lapsed without value in 2016. Mr P complained about this as he wasnt aware 
and said he wouldve paid additional premiums to keep the policy live. Having looked at the 
information, I think Sun Life did enough to alert Mr P to the risk his policy may lapse. Ill 
explain why.
Mr Ps policy has reviews in 1999, 2004, 2009 and 2014. In November 2014, Sun Life wrote 
to Mr P, using the correct address, to say that he would need to either increase his 
premiums or reduce his sum assured for his policy to continue to the next review date. At 
this point reviews were happening at 5 yearly intervals. In this letter Sun Life said the 
following:
If you do not take action your policy will cease when the unit value is exhausted
I think its clear from this letter than Mr P had to take action to ensure his policy wouldnt 
lapse. Ive also seen that Sun Life sent Mr P annual statements which showed the unit value 
every year was decreasing. Mr P says he received his statements but didnt receive this 
letter.  But I need to look at whether Sun Life has done anything wrong, and I can see that 
the letter is addressed the same as the statements that had been received. So, I think its 
likely it was sent out.
In any event Id expect Sun Life to send a reminder to avoid any issues with post not being 
received. In December 2014 Sun Life sent a further letter to Mr P. This letter said that Mr P 
needed to take action and contained the same warning that the policy will cease in bold 
capital letters. So, I think Sun Life gave Mr P notice that is policy could lapse if he didnt get 
in touch with it. Mr P says he didnt receive this letter either, but I can see it was addressed 
correctly and I think its likely Sun Life sent it out. So, I cant say Sun Life needed to do 
anything more here.In 2016, Sun Life wrote to Mr P to say the policy had lapsed, and it gave him the option to 
contact it as it may be able to be reinstated. Mr P didnt contact Sun Life until he complained 
in 2019. I understand hes said he didnt receive any of these notices which must have been 
frustrating for him. But I dont think Sun Life needed to do anything more here. Mr Ps 
representative has said Sun Life shouldve contacted Mr P more frequently but I disagree. I 
think it gave fair warning that action needed to be taken and gave Mr P an option after the 
policy had lapsed to see if it could be reinstated. I think this was fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman