DRN-3471546
The complaint
Miss L complains about the customer service TSB Bank plc provided when she wanted to
close some of her savings accounts and set up a standing order.
What happened
Miss L contacted TSB by phone in July 2021. She said she was trying to set up a standing
order from her external account to her TSB monthly saver account, but kept being told the
details were wrong.
During the call, the adviser told Miss L she could set up a standing order from an external
account, but that there was a limit of one standing order per month. Miss L couldnt
understand why she was still having problems with this and challenged the adviser a number
of times. The adviser then mentioned a confirmation of payee but didnt explain what this
meant, saying it could be the reason Miss L was experiencing difficulties, but that she
shouldve still been able to pay in the money.
The call became unproductive to the point where Miss L asked to speak to a manager. The
adviser then contacted a manager and told Miss L the manager wasnt available to speak to
her at that moment. He confirmed Miss Ls phone number for a call back. The call was then
terminated abruptly.
The next day, Miss L called TSB again and spoke to a different adviser to explain the same
issue, reiterating that the error message she was getting said the account details were
incorrect, even though shed double checked these.
Miss L also reiterated that she was trying to set up a standing order from an external account
to her TSB account. The adviser told her she should be able to do this, but that she would
ask a manager. Miss L then asked the adviser whether there was a note of her call to the
bank the day before, to which the adviser replies that there was no note of that call.
When the adviser returned to the call after speaking to a manager, she confirmed to Miss L 
that a new policy had come in recently which prevented standing orders from being set up
from external accounts. So she could only set up a standing order to her monthly saver from
an existing TSB account. Miss L asked why the adviser she had spoken to the day before
hadnt known this, and said that shed taken time off work only to spend a long time on the
phone to be given incorrect information. Miss L raised a complaint.
The adviser explained that she was new and thats why she was having to ask her manager
things, and apologised for this. Miss L also asked the adviser whether she could close an
account for her. The adviser explained she could not as she didnt have permission to do
that. But that the account could be closed online or in branch.
The adviser proceeded to get a complaint logged for Miss L.
TSB considered the complaint and apologised to Miss L for the poor service shed received.
It said the monthly saver terms and conditions which Miss L agreed to when she opened the
account make clear that funds can only be paid in from another TSB account.
Miss L remained unhappy with TSBs response and referred the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She
said the £50 TSB had offered her was a fair amount of compensation for the distress and
inconvenience shed experienced.
Because Miss L didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint was passed 
to me to decide. I issued my provisional decision on 25 April 2022 and Ive included an 
extract below.
Ive listened to the relevant phone calls and taken into account what TSB has said. Ive also
spoken to Miss L about her experience with TSB and the impact of what happened. Shes
said the following in particular caused her distress and inconvenience:
There was no note left of her call with a TSB adviser on 4 July 2021.
She did not receive a call back from a manager following the call on 4 July 2021, 
when she was given the impression that she would receive a call back.
She was given incorrect information about being able to set up a standing order 
during this call, and was given the impression that a standing order to her monthly 
saver could be set up from an external bank account.
She spent a considerable amount of time on the phone and on hold for what she felt 
were straightforward issues. And calls were terminated abruptly without her receiving 
a call back.
She felt at times that she was doing the agents job for them, coming up with 
solutions to the problems that they shouldve found themselves.
She has experienced difficulty using the app, uploading a photo, and closing her 
accounts.
From listening to the calls and looking at all the evidence, I agree with much of what Miss L
has said. I think errors were made by TSB in its dealings with her, though I also
acknowledge that the agents who spoke to Miss L on the phone were generally professional
and polite towards her. I also appreciate the calls were difficult at times due to Miss Ls tone
and some of the things she said to the agents. And I think the agents dealt with the calls well
despite this.
Having spoken to Miss L about the level of distress she experienced, shes told us she
suffers from depression and anxiety. And I think this has the effect of making her very
stressed in situations where, for example, she has to spend a long time on the phone during
work hours. She has also told us she takes medication for her condition and has counselling
for it.
Miss L has also mentioned that she told TSB about her anxiety once, but that TSB didnt do
anything with that information. Whilst I cannot say for certain whether TSB was aware of
Miss Ls condition, I do think the fact that she was becoming increasingly frustrated over
these issues on the phone was a possible indicator that she might be a vulnerable
consumer. And so I think more couldve been done to ensure she didnt experience even
more distress and inconvenience as a result of her medical condition.
Miss L has told us that the impact of the incidents she refers to included weeks of hassle,
stress and inconvenience. And that the time spent on the phone, the cost of the phone calls,
having to repeat herself and being unable to close her accounts caused her considerable
frustration and made her worry excessively about the effect of those accounts on her credit
file. I also think the impact wouldve been heightened because of her medical condition.Its for that reason that I am provisionally proposing TSB pays Miss L £150 compensation in
total, including the £50 it has already offered her. And that it implements its vulnerable
consumer policy, if it has one, in order to support Miss L going forward.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my provisional decision, neither TSB nor Miss L have provided any further 
information for me to consider. So I see no reason to change what Ive said in my provisional 
decision and Ill now require TSB to take the following steps.
Putting things right
TSB Bank plc must now:
Pay Miss L a total of £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience, which 
includes the £50 it previously offered.
Place a vulnerable consumer marker on Miss Ls customer profile.
Speak to Miss L to obtain details of her circumstances and any additional support 
she requires in line with any vulnerable consumer policy TSB has in place.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman