DRN-4491754
The complaint
Miss C complains HSBC UK Bank Plc continue to call her and send text messages despite 
telling them she only wanted to correspond in writing.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. The 
facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I wanted to clarify that this decision is only addressing the communication issues with 
Miss Cs personal account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, for 
these reasons:
Its not disputed that Miss C asked for HSBC to only correspond with her by letter. 
Despite Miss Cs request and HSBC agreeing to this, they continued to send Miss C 
text messages about her account. HSBCs May 2023 final response letter 
acknowledged their mistake and they paid Miss C £100 in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience she experienced. They also explained they had updated their 
systems to ensure Miss C wouldnt receive further text messages. I agree it would 
have been frustrating for Miss C to receive texts after shed asked not to, so I agree 
HSBC needed to take steps to put things right. However, Miss C doesnt think the 
£100 award sufficiently recognised the impact on her, so Ive had to decide what 
I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss C had previously written to HSBC setting out fees she would charge if HSBC 
continued to call her and send text messages. She said she expected to be paid 
£100,000 per text message sent to her and is unhappy HSBCs award isnt in line 
with her fees  particularly given she explained they were non-negotiable.
Receiving the text messages would have been frustrating, and Miss C would have 
experienced some inconvenience having to remind HSBC she didnt want to be 
communicated with in this way. However, Ive seen no evidence from Miss C that 
demonstrates how she calculated her £100,000 per text message fee. Text 
messages are a mode of communication that take minimal time to review. So, that is 
something Ive had to place weight on when considering this complaint. And from the 
evidence Ive seen, I cant agree the fees Miss Cs requesting are fair or reasonable.
Although HSBCs final response letter assured Miss C they had updated her 
communication preferences on their system, she received further text messages. 
After looking into this, HSBC realised a further part of their system hadnt been 
properly updated. And their failure to notice this meant Miss C received a text 
message about her overdraft. HSBC has told our service this shouldnt have 
happened and offered an additional £50 to put things right.
I dont deny Miss C has been frustrated by HSBC seemingly disregarding her 
reasonable request to be communicated with by letter only. And her frustrations 
would have been exacerbated by the same mistakes being repeated. However, Ive 
not seen sufficient evidence to persuade that the distress and inconvenience Miss C 
experienced was so severe and prolonged it warrants a more substantial award. 
I consider HSBCs additional offer of £50 (bringing the total award to £150) fairly 
recognises the impact caused by their mistakes.
For the reasons above, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint  albeit, not as shed hoped.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Miss Cs complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
To put things right, HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Miss C £50 in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience she experienced as a result of their mistake. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman