DRN-3015565
The complaint
Miss A and Mr S complain about poor advice from Mortgage Wise Ltd, an appointed 
representative of Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited. They ask that it refunds part 
of the lifetime fee they paid. Quilter responded to Mr S and Miss As complaint.
What happened
Miss A and Mr S took mortgage advice from Mortgage Wise in 2018. They paid a fee for a 
lifetime service. 
Mortgage Wise contacted Miss A and Mr S in August 2020 as their mortgage product was 
due to expire on 31 December 2020. Miss A and Mr S say the adviser told them that due to 
a problem their only option was a product transfer with their current lender. Miss A and Mr S 
couldnt understand this as another broker was able to find a better deal for them. They say 
they tried to contact Mortgage Wise again but didnt get a response. In November 2020 
another broker recommended and arranged a mortgage for them with another lender at a 
lower interest rate.
Miss A and Mr S say theyve lost faith in Mortgage Wise. They say its already had 
commission relating to the mortgage and life insurance policy they took out in 2018 and 
should refund part of the lifetime service fee they paid. 
Our investigator said while the service Miss A and Mr S received from Mortgage Wise in 
August 2020 was poor there was time for them to take advice from another adviser at 
Mortgage Wise before their product expired. He said the adviser whod upset them had left 
and there was no reason to think they wouldnt receive a fair service from Mortgage Wise in 
the future. The investigator said it wasnt fair to require Mortgage Wise to refund the fee. 
Miss A and Mr S didnt agree. Mr S said there wasnt enough time for them to return to 
Mortgage Wise for their re-mortgage. He said theyve lost trust in Mortgage Wise and 
wouldnt be able to rely on its advice. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and Miss A took mortgage advice from Mortgage Wise in 2018. They took out a 
mortgage recommended by it and were happy with the service they received at that time. 
Mr S and Miss A paid a £1,200 fee to Mortgage Wise in 2018 for a lifetime service, which 
means theyll continue to receive mortgage advice from Mortgage Wise without paying 
further fees. Quilter says this means Mortgage Wise will contact them each time their 
product is ending to arrange a new one. Quilter says it would expect an adviser to go 
through a fact find to establish Miss A and Mr Ss personal circumstances and what type of 
product they were looking for, and help to arrange the product with the new lender for when 
their product ends. 
Miss A and Mr S were contacted by Mortgage Wise in August 2020. Their product was due 
to expire at the end of December 2020. An appointment was made for 20 August. Mr S and 
Miss A say the mortgage adviser told them that due to a problem they wouldnt be able to re-
mortgage and should take out a new product with their existing lender. They felt he wasnt 
interested in looking for a better product for them.
Mr S and Miss A says they checked their credit ratings and spoke with another broker. They 
contacted the mortgage adviser to confirm there shouldnt be any problems getting a new 
mortgage. The adviser said hed get back to them, but this didnt happen. Mr S provided 
copies of emails sent to the adviser on 25 and 28 September 2020 asking him to contact 
them. 
Quilter says theres no evidence to support what Mr S and Miss A say they were told by the 
mortgage adviser in August 2020. But it cant provide records of the meeting with the 
mortgage adviser, what they were told or the basis for any advice given. Mr S and Miss A 
had paid a lifetime fee to Mortgage Works and had been happy with its advice in 2018. It 
seems unlikely to me that theyd have gone to another broker unless they were unhappy or 
worried about the advice they received. On balance I think Mr S and Miss As account of 
what happened in August and September 2020 is most likely correct. 
I dont know if Mr S and Miss A tried to contact someone else at Mortgage Wise during this 
time. I dont think it changes matters if they didnt. I think they were entitled to expect the 
adviser they were dealing with to respond. They didnt know he was away from work. 
Mortgage Wise says it didnt know Mr S and Miss A were waiting for a response from the 
adviser. I accept that the adviser might have needed to leave work at short notice. But I think 
its Mortgage Wises responsibility to ensure that customers are looked after in such 
circumstances, and I dont think it did that here.
Mr S did contact Mortgage Wise on 4 October 2020. He said how unhappy he was with the 
service provided and asked for a refund.
Mortgage Wise apologised and said the mortgage adviser was off work due to family illness 
(he then left the business). Mortgage Wise offered to book Mr S and Miss A an appointment 
with another adviser. Mr S repeated how unhappy he was with the service provided and 
asked for a refund. Miss A and Mr S took advice elsewhere and took out a mortgage with 
another lender.
Quilter says there would have been enough time before Mr S and Miss As product was due 
to expire for them to meet with another mortgage adviser and take out a new product, with 
the same or another lender. I agree: Mortgage Wise offered to arrange a meeting with 
another adviser on 6 October at which time there was about 12 weeks before their product 
was due to end. 
Mr S and Miss A had a disappointing experience with the mortgage adviser they met in 
August. But they were happy with the advice they received in 2018. Theres no reason to 
think Mr S and Miss A wouldnt have received a good service and advice from another 
adviser at Mortgage Works. And they can take advice from Mortgage Wise in the future. 
Because of this I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Mortgage Works to refund part 
of the lifetime service fee.
However, I do think the service Mr S and Miss A received was poor and it would be fair for 
them to receive compensation for this. Putting things right
Before issuing this decision, I let the parties know that I thought it would be fair for Quilter to 
pay £150 compensation to Miss A and Mr S. I explained that Id taken into account that 
Miss A and Mr S didnt receive meaningful advice or contact between late August and early 
October and this caused them unnecessary worry and upset. And Id also taken into account 
that Mortgage Wise offered to put this right promptly when Mr S contacted it in early 
October, and there was still enough time for them to take out a new mortgage or product. 
Quilter agreed to pay £150. Mr S and Miss A said theyd be willing to settle for £250, and this 
would be fair as they didnt intend to use Mortgage Works services again. Having considered 
what theyve said, and re-considered what happened here, I stilI think £150 compensation 
for the upset caused to Mr S and Miss A is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Quilter Financial Planning Solutions 
Limited to pay £150 to Miss A and Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman