DRN-2180491
The complaint
Miss H complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly refused to 
pay her claim for vet costs under her pet insurance policy.
Miss H is the policyholder and is represented in this complaint by her partner. But, for ease, 
Ill refer to Miss H throughout.
What happened
Miss H bought her policy with Red Sands in early April 2020. She took her dog to the vet just 
over two weeks later because hed collapsed and was struggling to breathe. The vet 
diagnosed brachycephalic obstructive airway syndrome (BOAS) and suggested surgery, 
which was carried out a few days later. Miss H claimed for these costs under her pet 
insurance policy. Red Sands refused to pay because it said there was information in the 
vets history which indicated that the condition was first noted a few weeks earlier, which was 
either before the policy was taken out or within the 14 day waiting period  and was 
therefore excluded. 
Miss H said the previous incident referred to by Red Sands was a few days after the policy 
had been taken out and was unrelated to the later diagnosis of BOAS. She said her dog had 
eaten grass and bluebells on that occasion and was not in respiratory distress. The vet 
supported this view and thought it was unlikely the first episode was respiratory in origin. 
Red Sands reviewed the situation but maintained its position. It said there were comments in 
the vets notes made by Miss H about respiratory noise, which it believed indicated that this 
symptom had been noted on occasions prior to the diagnosis of BOAS. It also pointed to 
inconsistences in the clinical notes about the previous incident and said it was satisfied the 
first clinical signs of the condition were noted prior to the commencement of the policy. As 
such, it said it was a pre-existing condition and excluded from the policy. 
Miss H wasnt happy with Red Sands response and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought Red Sands should settle the claim in full, less the policy excess. 
She said Miss Hs application for insurance showed no previous knowledge or signs of 
BOAS and the policy did not initially exclude the condition. She said the information provided 
by the vet also showed no previous signs of BOAS. And she thought the vets clinical opinion 
gave weight to the fact the first incident was unrelated to the second.  
Red Sands didnt agree and so Miss Hs complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. Red Sands said the symptoms noted from the first episode are in line with the 
episodes of syncope (fainting) that led to the diagnosis of BOAS. It said this indicates the 
clinical signs of the condition were present prior to the start of the policy, or at least within 
the 14 day waiting period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
Miss Hs insurance policy covers vet fees arising from accidents, illnesses or diseases. But it 
also has a number of conditions and exclusions. Red Sands are relying on the following 
exclusions:
1.3.1 Any pre-existing condition or claim for costs relating to an Injury or Illness that relates 
to or results from an accident, injury or clinical signs your pet had before the commencement 
date;
1.3.2 Any Injury or Illness that has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an accident, injury, 
illness or clinical signs your pet had before the commencement date;
1.3.3 ..
1.3.4 Any illness that first shows clinical signs within 14 days of the commencement date
Miss Hs dog was diagnosed with BOAS just over 14 days after the policy was taken out. 
That particular condition wasnt excluded from the policy at the time and the cost of the 
surgery would therefore have been covered by the policy if there had been no previous 
clinical signs of BOAS before the policy started or within the first 14 days. But Red Sands 
noticed information in the vets clinical history which it believes indicates there were previous 
clinical signs of BOAS. Red Sands has relied on a note in the vets history taken at the time 
he diagnosed BOAS, which says Miss Hs dog collapsed on a walk a few weeks beforehand 
after vomiting foam and bile. It said the dog was ok a few minutes later. The note also said 
the owner describes noisery [sic] breath, more than previous bulldogs. ?BOAS
There was some uncertainty about when the incident occurred but Miss H later clarified that 
the incident theyd referred to when speaking to the vet occurred a few days after theyd 
taken out the policy with Red Sands in early April 2020. She and her vet believe that incident 
was unrelated to BOAS and resulted from her dog eating grass and bluebells. They say the 
dog vomited and collapsed but was not in respiratory distress and did not lose 
consciousness. Miss H said the dog recovered quickly and she wasnt concerned, so didnt 
contact the vet at that time.
Red Sands said there was no mention of grass and bluebells in the vets clinical notes and 
no mention of toxicity. They said the symptoms recorded by the vet in the clinical notes were 
the same as those in the earlier incident, indicating that the condition was pre-existing. It 
also referred to the vets notes where it said Miss H had described noisy breathing, more 
than previous bulldogs. It believes this statement indicated that this symptom had been 
noted on occasions prior to this date. But I think thats only one interpretation of that 
information. The vet says the comment referred to the current situation on the day, rather 
than to any previous occasion, and I think that could equally be the case. Either way, I dont 
think Red Sands can rely on that particular comment.
As for the toxicity, I can understand why Red Sands has taken the position it has. Theres no 
mention of the dog having eaten grass or bluebells in the vets clinical history and the fact 
Miss H referred to the previous incident when talking to the vet might indicate she believed 
there was a link between that collapse and the current one. So, I can see why Red Sands 
has linked the two incidents. 
But the vets notes are very brief. Theyre not a verbatim record of what was said and I think its only fair to take account of the context in which they were made, particularly the urgency 
of the situation and Miss Hs desire to pass on as much information as possible to help her 
dog. Miss H and the vet have said the previous event was unrelated and, on balance, Im 
more persuaded by that evidence. Ive also taken account of the fact the vet examined 
Miss Hs dog in December 2019 and March 2020 and didnt record any relevant problems. 
And Miss H didnt declare any issues when she applied for insurance in early April 2020.
So, on the basis of the evidence from Miss Hs vet and her own account Im not persuaded 
there was a pre-existing condition upon which Red Sands can rely to refuse to pay this 
claim. 
Putting things right
Red Sands must pay the claim subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions, plus 
interest if necessary, as Ive detailed below. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do the following:
Pay Miss Hs claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions
If Miss H has already paid her vet the costs, add interest of 8% simple per year from 
the date she paid the vet fees to the date it reimburses her. 
If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should 
be provided to Miss H for HMRC purposes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman