DRN-1868859
The complaint
Ms D has complained that BUPA Insurance Limited declined to pay the full cost of her 
outpatient treatment after she made claims under her employers group private medical 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms D was a member of her employers group private medical insurance policy which was 
held with BUPA. The policy renewed in January each year.
In May 2019, following a request from the employer, BUPA agreed to allow Ms D to receive 
enhanced benefits under her policy in return for an increased premium.
Shortly after the move to enhanced benefits had been agreed, Ms D telephoned BUPA 
seeking authorisation for a consultation in respect of a gynaecological condition. BUPA 
provided this authorisation.
Ms D attended the consultation on 7 May 2019. She also underwent various tests.
BUPA later received the invoices for the consultation and tests. It paid the £220 consultation 
fee and £280 of the cost of the tests. However, it wouldnt pay anything more. It wrote to 
Ms D on 29 May 2019 explaining that her outpatient cover under the policy was limited to 
£500 each year and that therefore any amount over this threshold was her liability.
In the meantime, Ms D had contacted BUPA to explain that the consultant had 
recommended she undergo a procedure on an inpatient basis. BUPA provided authorisation 
for this treatment.
Ms D later underwent the procedure and BUPA met the full costs of this.
After BUPA had written to Ms D explaining that her outpatient benefit had been exhausted, 
Ms D attended two further consultations, only one of which she had informed BUPA of in 
advance. BUPA subsequently declined to meet the costs of these as Ms D had already 
exhausted her outpatient limit.
Ms D then contacted BUPA seeking authorisation for a post-operative consultation. BUPA 
again informed her that this would not be covered.
Ms D complained to BUPA as she believed all her treatment had been pre-authorised and 
that she shouldnt therefore be subject to a shortfall.
After reviewing the matter, BUPA maintained that it had applied the terms of the policy 
correctly and that Ms D had been made aware at the outset that her outpatient claims were 
subject to an annual limit of £500. However, it noted that Ms D had contacted it in advance 
of one of her subsequent consultations and it had failed to make clear to her at that point 
that the consultation wouldnt be covered because she had already exhausted her benefit. In 
view of this failure, BUPA agreed to meet the £250 cost of that consultation and to pay Ms D 
£50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Ms D was unhappy at BUPAs response. She referred her complaint to us. She said the 
reason shed been left with liability for the shortfall was because BUPA hadnt explained 
things properly to her. She thought this was unfair and that BUPA should meet the full costs 
of her treatment. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that BUPA had made Ms D adequately aware of the limit to her outpatient benefit and that it 
was her responsibility to monitor the cost of her treatment to ensure she did not exceed this. 
Ms D didnt accept the investigators findings. She maintained that BUPA hadnt properly 
explained the enhanced benefits to which she was entitled from May 2019. She said she 
understood that by providing its initial authorisation, BUPA had agreed to cover the cost of 
the initial consultation and all diagnostic tests carried out at that consultation. She thought it 
should have met these costs in full and then advised that her outpatient benefit had been 
exhausted so she could have made an informed decision as to whether to press ahead with 
further private treatment. 
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPA has explained that Ms D is a member of a group scheme. The policyholder is her 
employer. Ms D is provided with policy documents through her employer. I consider that the 
policy document makes clear that benefit for outpatient consultations and treatment is limited 
to £500 each year.
When BUPA agreed with the employer to offer Ms D enhanced benefits in May 2019, this 
meant she had a greater choice of places to receive treatment. It didnt change Ms Ds 
outpatient benefit limit and Ive seen no evidence to suggest that BUPA led her to believe 
otherwise. I consider that if Ms D was unsure what the enhanced benefits entailed, she could 
have asked her employer or BUPA about this.
When Ms D rang BUPA to seek authorisation for the initial consultation which was to take 
place on 7 May 2019, BUPA provided this authorisation. It says it also drew attention to the 
£500 outpatient benefit limit. I consider BUPA acted correctly. Ms Ds claim was eligible, 
subject to the limitation on outpatient benefit. BUPA didnt necessarily know whether the 
consultant would invite Ms D to undergo diagnostic tests or what the costs of these might be.
BUPA subsequently confirmed the authorisation in writing. This document states:
This pre-authorisation is valid for 31 days and includes any relevant tests and follow up 
consultations with the same specialist
However, immediately underneath this, it also states:
The out-patient benefit is paid as follows per membership year
- up to 500 GBP for out-patient consultations with a specialist, pathology, x-rays and 
diagnostic testsI consider that this further reinforced that any benefit payable under the policy was subject to 
the outpatient limit.
BUPA subsequently paid the appropriate benefit under the policy and informed Ms D of the 
shortfall. Im satisfied it did this in a timely manner once it had received the relevant invoices. 
The costs which Ms D incurred beyond the date of the initial consultation were after shed 
been made aware that her outpatient benefit had been exhausted.
I sympathise with Ms D that the cost of the diagnostic tests undertaken during the initial 
consultation immediately caused her to exceed her outpatient benefit and thus incur a 
shortfall. However, the consultant should have made her aware beforehand of the cost of 
these tests, thus allowing her to understand that she would face a shortfall in cover. If she 
wasnt made aware of the cost of the tests, that is a matter between her and the consultant. 
But ultimately, it was Ms Ds responsibility to ensure she didnt exceed the benefit limit; 
I dont consider that BUPA was at fault. 
BUPA acknowledged that it later authorised some treatment for Ms D and didnt make her 
aware that her outpatient benefit limit had been reached. It therefore agreed to cover the 
cost of that consultation and to pay her £50 compensation. Im satisfied this was fair.
Overall, Im satisfied that BUPA has acted fairly. It made Ms D adequately aware of the 
terms of the policy and has met all her eligible claim costs. Any outstanding costs are Ms Ds 
responsibility.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
David Poley
Ombudsman