DRN-3217980
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) hasnt reimbursed them 
after they were the victims of a scam.
What happened
On 24 February 2021 Mr M made two payments to the account he thought belonged to a 
builder he and Mrs M had agreed would be carrying out renovations on their home. 
Unfortunately, a scammer had intercepted emails between Mr M and his genuine builder and 
had directed him to pay the scammers account.
Mr M made an initial payment of £2,000. This was identified by Barclays as unusual and it 
called Mr M to confirm the payment was genuine, which during the call he confirmed it was 
and Barclays allowed the payment to be made. Mr M then made a second payment of 
around £1,700 about four hours later. This payment was again identified by Barclays, but 
given the call it had with Mr M earlier that day, the payment was released and no further 
verification carried out.
The emails from the scammer appeared to be from the same email address as Mr Ms 
genuine builder and appeared in the existing email chain between them. The scammer had 
also sent a quote detailing the work that had been discussed with the genuine builder adding 
credibility to the contact.
Barclays also felt it had provided effective warnings as it was required to under the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). It didnt feel Mr M had 
carried out enough checks to verify he was sending the money to his genuine builder. It said 
he had sent money to the builder previously and couldve checked the bank details used on 
that occasion to make sure they matched. Overall it felt Mr and Mrs M were liable for the 
loss. But, it reimbursed Mr and Mrs M the second payment made to scammers as it felt it 
shouldve contacted him to verify it as it had done in the case of the first payment. 
Barclays also acknowledged that the waiting times Mr and Mrs M experienced when trying to 
report the scam and while it was looking into things was outside of its general service levels 
and paid them £200 to acknowledge the inconvenience this wouldve caused. This amount 
was paid to Mr and Mrs M and appears to have been accepted in relation to the customer 
service issues. But they remained unhappy with the outcome Barclays had reached when 
considering their claim.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They didnt think the warning Barclays had given was 
impactful enough, and they felt Mr M hadnt been unreasonable in believing he was paying 
his genuine builder. Barclays didnt accept their view so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
THE CRM CODE
Barclays has signed up to, and agreed to adhere to, the provisions of the CRM Code which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
It is for Barclays to establish that one of the applicable exceptions under the code apply. 
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was 
legitimate 
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case. 
Has Mr M ignored an effective warning?
The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. The code also says that the assessment of whether a firm has 
met this standard or not should include consideration of whether compliance with that 
standard would have had a material effect on preventing the scam. Its clear Barclays did 
identify a risk here  its confirmed it contacted Mr and Mrs M to verify the payments in 
question were genuine. So it also needed to provide an effective warning as defined by the 
CRM code.
The code sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand
what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. As a
minimum, the CRM code sets out that an effective warning should be understandable, clear,
impactful, timely and specific.
Barclays has said in this case it identified an APP risk in the case of both payments, and it 
feels the warnings it provided did meet the definition of an effective warning as set out in the 
code. But I dont agree, for similar reasons to the investigator. 
The warning opens by talking about safe account scams and mentions HMRC and the 
police, none of which applied to Mr Ms situation. It goes on to reference paying for building 
work, and advised him to check the tradesperson was legitimate by researching and reading 
reviews. But this advice didnt apply to Mr Ms situation either and wouldnt have helped him 
uncover the scam as the issue here isnt that his builder wasnt legitimate.
At the end of the warning it says Fraudsters can intercept emails and invoices from genuine 
tradespeople and change the account details and name to their own, so speak directly to 
your payee to verify their details. Whilst this does apply to Mr Ms situation, its at the end of 
a long warning that mentions several other scenarios that dont. So I think this lacks impact. The warning also doesnt explain any of the specifics of an email intercept scam such as 
how the scam tends to work, what it means or that emails from the scammer may appear 
genuine. So I dont think its impactful because it didnt give Mr M any indication of what 
specifically to be on the look out for.
Overall, I dont think Barclays has shown me Mr and Mrs M ignored an effective warning in 
this case.
Did Mr M have a reasonable basis for believing what he was told by scammers?
Having considered the circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied Mr M had a reasonable 
basis for believing the payments he made were genuine, and he was paying who he 
expected to. 
The emails from the scammers are from the builders genuine email account. They appear in 
the existing email chain between Mr M and the builder and contain considerable detail about 
the work being carried out and the specifics of Mr Ms renovations that are authentic to his 
conversations with his genuine builder. And I dont think there was anything unusual or 
obviously suspicious in the language or writing style that ought to have concerned Mr M or 
alerted him to a problem. 
The scammer provided a lot of detail around why they wanted additional payment. They 
provided a plausible story that they were making another order of materials for another 
client, similar to the ones Mr and Mrs M wanted to use and ordering everything together 
would reduce the overall cost. They provided a breakdown of what this cost was. They 
explained they would need a deposit for the materials so they could order them at this 
reduced rate which explained why more money was being requested at that point. 
The scammer also asked Mr M to pay a supplier directly, meaning hed need to pay a 
different person. And although Mr M initially agreed to do this he then had second thoughts 
and asked only to pay the builder to allow him to keep track of what he was paying. Which, 
given he was in the process of moving house and paying for the renovations, seems 
reasonable. The scammer agreed but indicated there was a different account he should pay 
for the materials which is why and how different account details were provided. This second 
account was still in the builders name  the same name that was on the account Mr and Mrs 
M had previously made payments to.
I think the changed account details came up quite subtly in the course of Mr Ms 
conversation with the scammer, and this gave it credibility. And I think the information and 
reasoning given to him throughout was plausible. So I think its reasonable Mr M accepted 
he needed to make the payment and that it needed to be paid to a different account.
Although I dont consider the warnings that were given by Barclays were effective as defined 
in the CRM code, I have thought carefully about whether or not they ought to have impacted 
Mr Ms basis for believing the payments were genuine. But overall I dont think so. The 
warning does refer to email intercept scams and it does explain account details and account 
names can be changed. But this warning is at the end of what is essentially a list of scams 
that someone might fall victim to. And Mr M has said although he saw the warning he 
thought it was simply generic information, not something that applied to him. 
Hes also said he does recall seeing that it said to verify payment details. But as far as he 
was concerned hed been having a detailed conversation with his builder about the payment 
he was making, what it was for, why it was different to what was expected and why it was to 
a different account. So overall I dont think the warning reasonably ought to have undone Mr 
Ms belief. Barclays has said Mr M shouldve cross referenced the bank details he was being given with 
the bank details hed previously used to pay his genuine builder. But its not in question here 
whether Mr M knew he was paying a different account. He was aware of this, but for the 
reasons given he thought there was a legitimate reason for it and as Ive said I think this was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Overall, I think this particular scam was executed in a sophisticated enough way that I just 
dont think a reasonable person wouldve spotted something unusual was going on. So I 
dont think its unreasonable Mr M believed the payments he was making were genuine or 
that he didnt carry out any further checks before making them.
Could Barclays have done more to stop the payments being made?
Its clear Barclays has measures in place to be on the look out for and identify payments that 
might indicate its customers are at risk of financial harm. In this case, both of the payments 
Mr M made to scammers were stopped so Barclays could carry out further checks to verify 
the payments before they went through.
In the case of the first payment its said that Mr M confirmed it was genuine, so it allowed it 
to be made. But based on what its said I dont think it went as far as it reasonably ought to 
have in confirming this was the case. I havent seen much detail of this call. Mr M has told us 
he was only asked if the payment was being made by him and the name of the account 
holder was given. But I think it shouldve gone further as whilst this might have verified Mr M 
was making the payment himself, it doesnt offer any protection around any kind of APP 
scam he might have been victim to.
I cant see any reason why, if asked, Mr M wouldnt have been honest about what he thought 
he was doing  paying his builder. And given what Barclays reasonably ought to know about 
email intercept scams I wouldve expected the person he spoke to, to have asked about how 
he obtained these payment details, whether this was over email, whether they had recently 
changed, and whether he had checked them directly with the intended recipient by speaking 
to them.
Had it done this I think Mr M likely wouldve confirmed hed received the details by email and 
they had recently changed. So I wouldve expected Barclays to have given him a targeted 
warning about email intercept scams, how they tend to work and advice on how he could 
protect himself from them. Had this happened, I think Mr M likely wouldve spoken to his 
builder to verify the payment details and the scam wouldve been uncovered.
As such, I think Barclays missed an opportunity to prevent the payments being made and 
needs to pay additional interest in relation to this as outlined below.
I can see it wouldve been very stressful for Mr and Mrs M not to be able to get through to 
someone to report the scam, and then to have to wait so long for an outcome at an already 
very stressful time for them. Overall, I think the £200 already paid is sufficient compensation 
in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Barclays should reimburse Mr and Mrs M for the first payment made to scammers 
(£2,000). As the money likely wouldve remained in their current account had the 
scam not occurred, interest should be applied to this amount at a rate of 8% from the 
date of payment (24 February 2021) to the date of settlement.In the case of the second payment, interest should be applied at a rate of 8% from 
the date of payment (24 February 2021) to the date this amount was reimbursed to 
them  to reflect the period they were without they money. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr M the redress set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman