DRN-3380874
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. He says he made a one-off innocent mistake and its unfair for the marker to 
remain in these circumstances.
Background
In February 2021, Mr Gs Santander account received a transfer of £500 from a third-party. 
On the day the funds arrived, £250 was withdrawn at a cash machine and transfers of £100 
and £105 were made to another account in Mr Gs name. Shortly afterwards, Santander 
received a notification from the bank which sent the payment stating that the payer of the 
funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Santander reviewed Mr Gs account, decided to 
close it and also record a fraud prevention marker against Mr G.
Mr G was unhappy with Santanders actions and made a complaint. Santander looked at   
Mr Gs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr G remained dissatisfied he referred the matter 
to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Gs concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr G unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr G disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Santander has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr G is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Mr Gs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Santander also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr G was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. This can include Mr G allowing someone else to use his account in order to 
receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who 
was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Gs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Santander had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Gs account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Santander 
has done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Santander initially placed a restriction on Mr Gs account on 15 February 2021, after it 
received a notification from a third-party bank that its customer had reported being tricked 
into depositing funds into Mr Gs account. By this stage the funds in question had already left 
Mr Gs account through a series of transfers to another of his accounts and cash machine 
withdrawals. Santander attempted to call Mr G and also wrote to him in an effort to give him 
the opportunity to explain how the funds came to arrive in his account.  
In early March 2021, Mr G told Santander that the payment into his account was the 
proceeds from the sale of a motocross bike. Mr G mentioned the name of the person who he 
thought bought the bike from him and said he was someone he met at a local track and he 
was struggling to get hold of him. Mr G then once again called Santander a week later 
providing a different name for the purchaser and also said hed be unable to contact the 
seller because his phone had been confiscated by the police. Its also worth noting that 
neither of the names Mr G provided Santander with matched the payee of the £500. 
When Mr G referred his complaint to us, he then told us he was asked to accept the £500 
payment by someone who he thought was a friend. He said his friend told him it was a 
payment for a motocross bike and he believed him. And he allowed the payment to be made 
into his account as a favour to this friend. In a subsequent email to our service, Mr G then 
said that this friend asked him to receive the payment into his account because he didnt 
have his own account as a result of previous criminal activity.
Ive thought about what Mr G has said. But, in truth, given the inconsistent versions of events 
hes provided throughout the course of the investigation, its difficult to know what happened 
or for me to place much weight on what Mr G has said. That said, even if I were to take      
Mr Gs argument at its best and accept that he allowed the payment to be made to his 
account on behalf of a friend, he nonetheless knowingly allowed a payment to be made into 
his account on behalf of someone who didnt have an account of their own as a result of 
previous criminal activity. In these circumstances, I think that Mr G ought to have known that 
there was a significant risk that he might have been allowing his account to be used for 
illegitimate purposes. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Santander did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Gs account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not Mr G was complicit in this. As this is the 
case and even though it was only a single credit into Mr Gs account which triggered 
suspicion, despite the many others for significant sums which Mr G has spoken about, I dont 
think that it was unfair for Santander to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Mr Gs account. I know that since his complaint has been with us 
Mr G has said he accepts Santander doesnt have to provide him with an account. But for 
the sake of completeness and as it formed part of Mr Gs initial complaint, I think its worth 
me explaining that the terms and conditions of Mr Gs account permitted Santander to close it where it was used in any way to give rise to reasonable suspicion of fraud or other 
criminal activities. Ive already explained why I think Santander was reasonably entitled to 
conclude that Mr Gs account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it 
didnt act unfairly in recording the fraud prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted Santander to close Mr Gs account  especially as it provided him with 
one months notice before doing so. And Im therefore not upholding Mr Gs complaint on 
this basis either.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr G  especially in light of the ongoing impact 
hes said the fraud marker is having on him and he strongly believes that the amount of the 
funds in question didnt warrant the level of scrutiny it received. But I hope hell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Furthermore, as our adjudicator has explained Mr G might find that hes able to open an 
account with another bank as long as he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full 
Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman