DRN-4083089
The complaint
Mr D complains on behalf of his wifes (Mrs Ds) estate about Equiniti Financial Services 
Limited, referred to as Equiniti or the business. 
In short, he says that the relevant form  Form A needed to transfer shares  was 
ambiguous and lacked clarity. He says hes spent time contacting the business trying to 
clarify what certain phrases meant. 
To put things right, hed like to be compensated for time wasted. 
What happened
A brief background of events, according to the business, is as follows:
5 October 2022  Mr D notified Equiniti that Mrs D had sadly passed away. She had 
held shares electronically in the Banco Santander Nominee Service (Corporate 
Sponsored Nominee Service) that he wanted to transfer to himself. 
8 October 2022  The business sent the notification of death letter to Mr D which 
explained the process to formally register the death and sale/transfer of the shares. 
19 October 2022  Form A and the Grant of Probate (GOP) was received by 
business. 
25 October 2022  The business confirmed that the death of Mrs D had been 
registered, but Form A had been rejected because it hadnt been completed properly. 
02 November 2022  Mr D called the business to explain his dissatisfaction at having 
to submit identity (ID) documents, he felt the GOP was sufficient. Despite being told 
what he needed to do, Mr D raised a complaint and refused to do anything further. 
04 November 2022  Mr D called to speak to a complaint handler and a call back 
was arranged. 
07 November 2022: Form A was resubmitted. Mr D was called back, but theres no 
record of the call. 
11 November 2022: Form A was again rejected as it wasnt completed correctly. Mr 
D called the business and left some comments for the new handler. He also said that 
he wasnt going to resubmit a new form. 
16 November 2022: The business called Mr D to discuss his concerns and how to 
complete the form. Mr D reiterated that he wouldnt fill out any further paperwork. A 
call handler subsequently called Mr D to confirm that the transfer would be 
processed. A letter was subsequently sent confirming the share transfer.  
24 November 2022: Final Response Letter (FRL) sent to Mr D. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The information provided was clear, fair, and not misleading in line with the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 4.2, as set out in the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) handbook. 
Form A made clear what information was needed:
oFor example, step one of the form required details of the shares to be 
transferred, including the shareholder reference  the form made clear where 
it can be found. 
oBefore moving to step two  providing details of the current owner of the 
shares - the form asked the applicant to read carefully before they continued. 
Because Mr D was completing the form in the capacity of an 
Executor and/or Legal Representative, he was required to fill out 
step two and step three (which was overleaf) as required by the 
form. 
The form also cautioned that ALL shareholders (and any Legal 
Representative MUST complete this form fully and correctly otherwise 
the instruction will be returned without being actioned.    
oStep two required the applicant to Fully complete sections A, B, C, D and 
E with their details. 
The first box required details of the existing or deceased shareholder. 
The remining boxes asked for additional details  such as a signature, 
address, date of birth and NI number. 
It also made clear that if the applicant didnt have this information, they 
should place an X in the box. 
Except for Mrs Ds signature (which he wouldnt have) it was 
reasonably clear what information Mr D had to provide in relation to 
Mrs D. 
oMr D was required to complete step three which was also in relation to a 
shareholder who had passed  ALL Executors/Administrators were required 
to complete this section fully, otherwise instruction will be returned without 
being actioned. 
oThe section made clear that sections A, B, C and D below needed to be 
completed with Mr Ds details. It again provided the warning of what might 
happen if the form wasnt dealt with properly, and that the form needs to be 
filled out correctly, in order to proceed. As before, if the applicant didnt have 
the details, they were required to place an X in the box.   
oStep four in relation to the new owner details  required Mr D to provide his 
details. This part was in a similar format requiring the applicant to Fully 
complete sections A, B, C, D and E below with their details. If they didnt 
have the information, the applicant was again required to place an X in the 
box.  
oOn 25 October 2022, the business couldnt action the request because step 
four  in relation to Mr Ds identity  hadnt been completed. The business 
was under a legal duty to verify his identity. This was as part of its obligations 
under anti-money laundering regulations and fraud prevention.  
oOn 11 November 2022, the business couldnt proceed with the request 
because Step 2a and Step 4a hadnt been completed correctly. In the 
circumstances, the business hasnt done anything wrong. 
Even if there was an error, as representative of the estate, Mr D isnt eligible to any 
compensation that might be payable. 
Mr D disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, he said that the investigators findings are too generous and favourable to the 
business. In other words, they failed to adequately represent the position of the customer 
and member of the public. He maintains the form was complex and ambiguous. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr D says, I cant safely say that 
the business behaved unreasonably. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ds strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr D and the business, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I dont uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons:
Im aware that the business has processes and procedures in place that it is obliged 
to follow in order to legitimately carry out instructions. It cant act on its own volition 
and certainly not without authority to do so. 
Theres essential information that the business needs (from the applicant)  including 
details relating to the current/deceased shareholder, the executor/legal 
representative, and the new shareholder/owner - in order for it to successfully 
transfer the shares. 
So, in the process of transferring shares (from Mrs D to Mr D), I dont think the 
business has done anything wrong by refusing to accept an incorrectly filled out form, 
which is the applicants duty to fill out correctly in any case.    
In other words, as part of its process, the business requires the applicant to fill out 
Form A and to do so correctly before it can legitimately process a request to transfer 
shares. I note the obligation is on Mr D to fill out the form as requested.  
I appreciate some of the information might overlap  for example if the executor is 
also the new shareholder  but this doesnt mean that parts of the form dont have to 
be filled out. Theres nothing within the form that suggests that sections can be left 
blank or ignored for example. 
Im satisfied that key parts of the form made clear that all boxes have to be fully 
filled out  with an X if the information isnt available  and if the correct information 
isnt provided the instruction will be returned without being actioned, so Mr D knew 
or ought reasonably to have known, that it was important for him to provide the 
correct information and what would happen if he didnt.   
I understand that Mr D was frustrated by Form A, but he couldve sought help at the 
outset (before filing it in himself), but he didnt. Its arguable that this mightve helped 
move things along and prevented Mr D from getting as frustrated as he was. Despite what Mr D says about the form, Im mindful that Form A came with guidance 
notes which reasonably explained how the form needed to be filled in. I note the 
business said that it would learn from Mr Ds feedback but this doesnt mean it did 
anything wrong in refusing to proceed with an incorrectly filled out request form. 
I note that on 25 October 2022, the business rejected the application on the basis 
that the form wasnt filled out correctly. In the circumstances, I cant say that the 
business behaved unreasonably. I note the original form was sent back because 
thats what happens in these instances.
I note on 7 November 2022, Mr D resubmitted the form, but again did so incorrectly. I 
note on 11 November 2022, the business explained that it couldnt proceed with the 
request because Step 2a and Step 4a hadnt been completed correctly. 
I note the business says that if Mr D had sought help rather than re-submitting the 
form the matter couldve been dealt with sooner and without incurring (additional) 
difficulties. On balance, I agree that Mr D couldve sought clarification before 
submitting the form. 
I note from the call recording dated 16 November 2022 Mr D was assisted with the 
form clarifying what was required. I note the call handler was empathetic, 
understanding, and clear with Mr D, but he still refused to fill in the form and resubmit 
it with the necessary information. Despite that, I note he still wanted to proceed with 
the transfer and wanted a creative solution to his problem, including the form being 
changed and made simple  all without having to fill out and submit a new form.
Despite what he said, I note he eventually provided his NI number orally over the 
phone and I suspects that may have helped move things along in terms of his 
transfer request. 
I note Mr D said it was only a few hundred pounds and not ten million pounds, but 
despite the amount the business still had to follow its process and procedure, which 
wasnt dependent on the value of the shares.  
I note the business referred to the national client identifier as the NI number which 
caused Mr D some confusion. But if that was the case, he ought reasonably to have 
asked the business at the outset what information it needed rather than assume it 
was to do with something else. 
I suspect the business called it the national client identifier because thats how the 
business identified the specific person, especially if there were multiple investors 
involved. I do agree this couldve been clearer, however I dont think this warrants 
any compensation as Im satisfied that aside from Mr D refusing to fill out the form 
again and provide the necessary information the business was on hand to assist and 
cant be blamed for him filling out the form incorrectly despite what he says about his 
education, age and experience.  
Im aware that the business needed this information, as part of its wider anti-money 
laundering obligations and for identification. I understand that the issue was 
eventually resolved, and probably through some creative means as requested by Mr 
D without him having to fill out the form again. 
I also note the business says that section 14 of the Terms and Conditions made clear 
that it could request information and that the shares will remain in the original 
shareholders name, until the correct forms/information is received. So, Mr D ought 
reasonably to have known what was likely to happen until the Form A issue was 
resolved. 
Im aware that once the relevant issues were dealt with, the business processed the 
request swiftly and the shares were transferred to Mr D as requested. 
The above notwithstanding, I make clear that as the representative of the estate of 
Mrs D, Mr D isnt entitled to any compensation for any distress and inconvenience in 
any event.   I appreciate that Mr D will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate his frustration, Im not persuaded that the business did anything wrong. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold 
this complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman