DRN-3030825
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2002. Mrs G says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mrs Gs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. Mrs G 
has told us that she cant recall exact dates but before the job she was in when she took the 
card, she worked elsewhere with no gap in her employment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought Barclays offer, to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mrs G paid, was fair in the circumstances. 
Mrs Gs representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
Mrs Gs policy was cancelled in 2008 when it was replaced by another policy. My decision 
here concerns the earlier policy only. But Barclays says it has upheld Mrs Gs complaint 
about the later policy, has cancelled that policy and will pay the redress once it receives my 
decision relating to the earlier policy.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Gs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Barclays offer, to refund some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused, is fair in the circumstances. 
Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below.
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mrs G says the PPI was just included with her card. But her card application form had a 
separate Payment Protection Insurance section for the PPI, with a box to mark if she 
wanted the cover. On Mrs Gs form, which she signed to take the card, the box for PPI 
was marked  and nothing on the form said the PPI had to be taken. Overall, I think it 
likely Barclays made it clear Mrs G didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs G, so it had to check the PPI was right for her. 
And from what I have about her circumstances at the time, the policy wasnt unsuitable 
for her. For example, she was eligible for the cover and, from what shes told us, she 
was financially stretched with limited means to fall back on in case of redundancy or 
sickness  so she had a need for cover. Also I think it likely the cover was affordable and 
nothing about her employment or occupation wouldve made it hard for her to claim. Also 
she hasnt told us of any pre-existing health issues the policy mightve excluded. There 
were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found she chose to take it - and the application form said it was 
cover for her card repayments in case of unemployment, accident or sickness - so it 
looks to me like she wanted this type of cover. It wasnt unsuitable for her, as I concluded 
above, and it seems like it wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong in the 
circumstances it covered. Overall, I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what its 
likely Mrs G thought she was buying from the information its likely she was given  and, 
with this and all Ive said above in mind, I dont think she wouldve declined it had 
Barclays done anything more.
Overall, I consider Mrs G wouldve still taken the PPI. Given her circumstances, I think it 
couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time if she couldnt work in the circumstances 
it covered. I also think it was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. 
And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Gs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Barclays should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
Mrs Gs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Gs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Gs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Barclays offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Barclays didnt tell Mrs G about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Barclays and Mrs G was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Barclays didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs G, because it failed 
to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Gs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs G should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Barclays failed to tell Mrs G about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find that Mrs G wouldnt have taken the 
policy had she known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all 
the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. 
Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs G in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Barclays not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Gs representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Barclays failure to disclose the level of commission, for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Barclays to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs G paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs G 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken if Barclays had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Barclays payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. Barclays has told us it 
has already paid this to Mrs G  and has sent us a copy of the letter it sent at the time. As 
Barclays has already paid Mrs G compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further.
Im grateful to Mrs G for her courtesy and assistance in providing further information when 
requested to assist us in the investigation of her complaint.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Gs complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs G an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). 
As Barclays Bank UK PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider 
that Barclays Bank UK PLC should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman