DRN-3373578
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Fairmead Insurance Limited declined the claim for the loss of Mrs Ws
watch.
What happened
Mr W held the home contents insurance policy for the relevant time in his name. As part of
the cover there were a number of high value items of jewellery specified. One of them (Mrs
Ws watch) had a given value of just over £7,800. This is the item at the centre of this 
complaint.
A claim in respect of the loss of this watch was declined. It was said this was because the
terms of the cover had not been met. In summary, the loss had not been reported to police
or the insurers as soon as possible; there was also reference to a lack of action to locate the
watch.
Mrs W reported the loss of her watch on 1 December 2020. Initially she reported it had been
lost on 16 July 2020 between a restaurant in Birmingham and her home address.
There were various communications between the insurers, their claims handlers and Mr and
Mrs W in December 2020 and January 2021.
On 28 January 2021 Mrs W spoke to the insurers claims handler on the phone. They 
completed a report of this conversation. In the call Mrs W explained she wore the watch 
every day. On 15 July 2020 she had visited and stayed at a hotel. The next day she drove 
straight to the restaurant to meet a friend for lunch. Afterwards on her way home, she 
telephoned a salon for a walk-in beauty appointment. Mrs W said shed discovered the loss 
of her watch when she arrived home. Mrs W provided the names and details of all the 
establishments.
Mrs W said she hadnt done anything about the loss at the time. She said she didnt do
anything for weeks, months. Albeit she went on to say she had made a thorough search of
the car and also said she had contacted the hotel, the restaurant and the salon. Mrs W said
this had been sometime later and referred to weeks.
Mrs W wasnt certain, but she thought she would have noticed if the watch hadnt been on
her wrist in the restaurant, due to its weight. She had no idea how it had been lost. Mrs W 
was asked why she hadnt reported the loss to the police and explained this wasnt 
something that had occurred to her in these circumstances.
After Mrs W explained when the watch had been lost and what she had done, the claims
handler told Mrs W they would need to make further enquiries. These were said to involve 
contacting the restaurant and salon. Mrs W offered the salon contact details and confirmed 
the restaurant reservation had been in her friends name.
Mrs W asked about the claims handlers role. They said they were a claims handling
company and would provide a report to the insurers with their advice of what theyd
discussed with her and then the insurer would assess and decide the outcome. The
representative said their role was to gather facts to enable an outcome of a claim to be
determined.
There was some consideration about whether the salon and restaurant would be able to be
contacted if they were closed due to Covid related restrictions; but the claims handler said
they would try to contact them and in their experience some businesses were answering
calls despite being closed.
Mrs W said she was frustrated with how long matters were taking and the time she had
spent on calls. The claims handler said it would take a little longer and as they needed to
contact the businesses, and this would take at least a week.
Mrs W chased for an update on 14 and 25 February 2021.
An email said to attach a final report sent by the claims handler to the insurers on 23 
February 2021 with their invoice. On 21 March 2021, the claims handlers sent an email to 
the insurers noting they had not received a response to their email with their report on 23 
February 2021.
On 22 March 2021 the claims handlers had contacted Mrs W and apologised for the delay.
At this time they said they had chased the underwriters for an update and would be in touch
once they had the information from them. 
On 23 March 2021 the underwriters contacted the claims handler, saying they agreed this
was a claim that ought to be declined. However, they added their suggestion the claims
handlers ought to contact the restaurant and salon when they reopened on 12 April 2021 to
see if Mrs W had contacted them at the time about her watch. The underwriters said that if
she hadnt, this would give the claims handler more to defend the declining of the claim.
On 18 April 2021 there is a record the claims handler could contact the restaurant and salon
once businesses reopened, and this would not cost the insurers anything further.
On 9 June 2021 at 18.36 there was an email between employees of the claims handling firm
indicating the policy holder and broker had been chasing the claim. The writer of the email
said it appeared they had been waiting for the salon to be open so they could clarify Mrs Ws
story.
On 10 June 2021 at 3.26pm a representative of the claims handler emailed Mrs W
to let her know hed tried to call her. He said the underwriters had reviewed and decided to
decline the claim. A letter dated the 10 June 2021 was sent out declining the claim and
providing the reasons.
Shortly before this on 10 June 2021 at 3pm, the same claim handling representative emailed 
various people at the claims handling firm to let them know hed tried to contact the 
restaurant (but there had been no answer) and the salon. The person who had answered his 
call at the salon hadnt been able to help and the boss was not available as they were 
unwell. The representative said hed been unable to obtain any further information and so a 
letter had been drafted in-line with what was understood to be the advice of the underwriters, 
declining the claim. There is an electronic note of activity on the business file entered on 10 
June 2021 at 2.11pm. This records the above calls to the restaurant and salon.
This activity appears to have followed an email also on 10 June 2021 by another person at
the claims handler at 1.37pm. This person asked their representative to contact the 
restaurant and the salon. She indicated the underwriters appeared to have confirmed the claim could be declined, but it appears there was reference to discussion with the 
businesses first. 
In June 2021 Mrs W said she wanted to complain. Although Mr W was the named policy
holder, it does not appear there has been any issue taken in communicating with Mrs W.
On 1 July 2021 Mrs W contacted the claims handlers, saying she wanted to escalate her
complaint.
Mrs W felt it unfair the insurers relied on her late reporting of the loss to decline her claim
since they had delayed their work on her claim. Mrs W said her late reporting of the loss had
been because she was under a lot of pressure at work due to the Covid pandemic.
Mrs W has also referred to moving from part-time work to full time work around this time, into
September, due to needing to speak to clients because of the Covid pandemic. Since the
matter was referred to this service, Mrs W has said she was too busy to report the loss at the
time and for the time that followed as she was arranging the sale of the business. Mrs W has 
also referred to hoping the watch would turn up.
Mr W went on to provide phone records on behalf of Mrs W which are said to show she
contacted the salon and restaurant on various days during the week that followed the loss of
the watch. The salon on 20 and 21 July 2020, and the restaurant on 26 July 2020.
An investigator at this service understood it would be disappointing to Mr and Mrs W, but he
didnt think Fairmead had been wrong to decline the claim. He accepted they had properly
applied the terms of insurance when declining the claim. In particular that neither the police
had been contacted to make a report, or the insurer informed as soon as possible.
He didnt think the delay prior to reporting the loss was reasonable; and hadnt been in-line
with the terms of the policy. Mr and Mrs W didnt agree and asked for the case to be referred
to an ombudsman.
Provisional decision
On 17 February 2022 I issued a provisional decision as I intended to depart from the view of 
the investigator in part. I didnt think the insurers were wrong overall to decline the claim. 
However I didnt think the insurers and their agent (the claims handler) had considered this 
claim as they ought to have done and they relied at least in part on inaccurate or incomplete 
information. As consequence I indicated I intended to say Fairmead ought to pay Mr W £250 
to address the failures for which they are responsible, including in the way the claim was 
dealt with.
Fairmeads response to the provisional decision
Fairmead indicated they had no new points to add.
Responses from Mr and Mrs W
Mrs W sent us further information on why she said she had not reported the loss. 
Mrs W said she had her children at home whilst she was at work every day, and this was a 
major distraction and delay in making the claim. Mrs W said she didnt consider herself to 
have been of stable mind due to all the pressures and the claim was the furthest thing from 
her mind. Mrs W said the well-being of her family had been paramount and the survival of 
the business. We invited further information in respect of the matters raised.In summary Mrs W said they had been dealing with too much at the time and the least of her 
worries had been the loss of her watch. She thought it might turn up at later at home. Mrs W 
hadnt sought any medical help; they had been dealing with Covid related challenges, the 
sale of the business had fallen through and then was successfully sold in November, she 
was schooling her children from home. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my thinking from that set out in my provisional decision. I have balanced 
things with real care here. But based on the particular circumstances, I think the delay 
between loss and reporting here was sufficient for Fairmead to properly decline the claim; 
albeit I dont think Fairmead dealt with the claim as they ought to have done.
I dont think if things had been done by Fairmead and their agent as they ought to have 
been, including an assessment of the correct information, the overall outcome of the claim 
would have changed. But the service provided wasnt satisfactory overall, and I appreciate 
why Mr W as the policy holder, and his wife will have been frustrated and have lost trust in 
the process and assessment.
I do understand this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs W. I appreciate what has been said 
about being busy at the time, and what has been said more recently about hoping the watch 
might turn up. Mrs W however was consistent for some months in respect of when the watch 
was lost. She said she knew her watch had been lost when she got home on 16 July 2020. 
Her account provided in the phone call of 28 January 2021 was persuasive, this was a watch 
she wore every day and she quickly noticed its absence. So although Ive seen more 
recently there has been the suggestion Mrs W was hoping it would turn up. I think Mrs W 
would have reasonably noticed and known (as she says), when the watch went missing. So 
Ive thought about what happened then.
Ive considered what Mrs W and her husband have told us about what was going on at the 
time. Including the steps she did take at the time, and why its said she didnt report it 
sooner. I accept they had a lot going on and Mrs W felt under pressure. But overall I dont 
find there were compelling or exceptional reasons as to why there was such a delay in the 
reporting of the loss of the watch. I accept the insurers were able to decline the claim on the 
basis of this delay. 
There are good reasons why insurers require losses to be reported to them as soon as 
possible, these include ensuring, where appropriate, investigations can be undertaken, and 
steps put in place to recover lost or stolen items and to identify fraudulent claims. I am not 
persuaded Mr and Mrs W ought not reasonably to have reported the loss much sooner, if not 
soon after 16 July 2020. 
But I dont accept there was enough for the insurers to have reached the conclusion Mrs W
didn't take any steps to try and locate the watch.
The letter of 10 June 2021 declining the claim from the claims handlers, sets out that they
consider Mrs W hadnt behaved reasonably. Firstly by failing to take any action, as its
reasonable to expect steps to be taken to minimise loss claims, and that she ought to have
contacted the venues where an item may have been lost or to try and recover the item. And
secondly by failing to notify the insurers promptly following an incident where the insured
wishes to make a claim. As indicated, I accept the second reason was a valid and fair
application of the terms of the policy. Here this was sufficient for the claim to be declined.However the letter of 10 June 2021, sets out that Mrs W had confirmed in her call of 28
January 2021 that she had not taken any action to locate the watch. Thats not right and it is
not what Mrs W said in the call of 28 January 2021; and its also not an accurate account of 
what the insurers and their claims handlers knew.
The insurers claim file shows the claims handlers knew Mrs W said shed contacted the 
restaurant and salon. There are somewhat unsatisfactory notes about the claims handlers 
intending to contact the businesses referred to, and what was done. This area was not
dealt with satisfactorily.
The report of the phone call assessment with Mrs W of 28 January 2021, used in reaching
the decision on the claim was provided. Having heard the phone call, the report submitted 
was not entirely accurate. In particular it states Mrs W said she didnt check with the
restaurant or salon for a considerable time afterwards, and that she was certain she was
wearing the watch at lunch. This does not reflect the tone or thrust of the answers she
provided, which I set out above.
The claims handler in the call specifically says the restaurant and salon (as well as 
potentially the hotel) will be contacted. The claims handler says this will take around a week 
after their call is finished. And although the impact of the Covid lockdown is discussed, and 
whether it will be possible to contact the businesses, the claims handler makes it clear in the 
call, that their experience has been, it is worth trying as often calls are answered even if the 
businesses are closed for customers.
There is nothing to suggest any contact was attempted until 10 June 2021, many months 
later. Those limited attempts were unsuccessful. On 10 June 2021 there appears to have 
been one attempt to contact the restaurant, the call wasnt answered, at a time, one can 
reasonably conclude, a restaurant would be busy, with the lunch service period. And the 
attempt to contact the salon was unsuccessful as the boss was off work unwell.
By the time this contact was attempted it appears to me, a decision had already been taken
to decline the claim. This isnt satisfactory. The claims handler indicated in January 2021 the
next steps involved contacting these businesses. It is unclear to me why no contact was
attempted and why it only finally seems to have been attempted at the last minute to clear up
loose ends, rather than as part of a meaningful investigation into the claim. It isnt clear to
me why the insurer and their agent thought these checks were needed but then didnt make
these checks in any meaningful way.
I dont accept Fairmead were right to decline the claim on the basis Mrs W hadnt taken any
steps to recover the watch. She told them at the time what she had done. Fairmead and their 
representatives made it clear they would look into this, but any attempt was delayed without 
explanation and completed in an unreasonable manner. Although I did not need to go on to 
conclude this point, I think its unlikely here, that I would have concluded, if necessary, that 
her failure to inform the police was sufficient to support the claim being declined.
However, Im not requiring Fairmead to reassess the claim on the accurate information, as I 
accept the report of the loss claim by the policy holder and his wife was unreasonably 
delayed.
I dont think the inaccurate wording in the report from the claims handler in January 2021 
played a significant part in the decision to decline. Nor do I think the failure to try to contact 
the businesses in a timely way to check if Mrs W had tried to find her watch at the time 
played a significant and determinative point in the decision to decline the claim.However these matters, including what I consider was an unreasonable delay overall in
informing Mr W of the outcome of the claim, mean I am upholding in part Mr Ws complaint.. 
Putting things right
As a consequence Fairmead will need to make a payment to Mr W of £250 to address the 
undoubted inconvenience he has been occasioned, and the impact of the loss of trust in the 
service provided
My final decision
For the reasons given, I am upholding Mr Ws complaint against Fairmead Insurance Limited 
in part. They are required to pay Mr W the sum of £250. This to be paid within 28 days of 
being notified of Mr Ws acceptance of my final decision. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 12 
April 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman