DRN-4089014
Complaint
Mr L has complained about a personal loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. 
He says that the loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided to him.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr L with a loan for £3,500.00 in January 2018. This loan had an 
APR of 129.3% and a term of 30 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£8,381.10, including interest, fees and charges of £4,881.10, was due to be repaid in 30 
monthly instalments of just under £280. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ls complaint and she thought that Everyday Loans 
ought to have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr L with his loan. So she thought that 
Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. 
Everyday Loans didnt agree. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ls complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr L could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before it provided Mr L with this loan. The results of which showed that Mr L was significantly 
indebted. Mr L also had dependents that he was making maintenance payments for too. 
Im also mindful that Everyday Loans relied on non-guaranteed overtime and bonuses as 
well as average data when calculate Mr Ls living expenses. This is despite the fact that          
Mr Ls credit file showed he didnt fit the profile of the average borrower. And even without 
this it was clear that Mr L might not have sufficient funds to cover the required payments to 
this loan.
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr L has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Ls financial position wasnt as a 
result of financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is 
unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive 
been persuaded to accept Mr Ls version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ls existing financial position meant that he was unlikely 
to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not have 
shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr L. 
As Everyday Loans provided Mr L with his loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr L ended up paying and is still being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan 
he shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr L lost out because of what 
Everyday Loans did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr L
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr L by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Ls loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr L made, whether to Everyday Loans or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £3,500.00 originally lent. If 
Mr L has already paid Everyday Loans more than £3,500.00 then it should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr L;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr L to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Everyday Loans recorded about this loan should be removed from          
Mr Ls credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman