DRN-3882138
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Santander UK Plc restricted access to money received into his 
account and decided to close his account and no longer provide banking services to him.
What happened
Mr W received a payment of £500 into his Santander account. This payment was flagged by 
Santander as potentially being fraudulent which led Santander to place restrictions in Mr Ws 
account. Mr W spoke with Santander about the payment, and Santander made the decision 
to close Mr Ws account with 30-days notice and no longer provide banking services to him. 
Mr W then received a payment of £180 into his account which Santander also restricted his 
access to. Mr W explained this money was from a family member, but Santander still didnt 
allow him to withdraw it. Mr W wasnt happy about this, or that Santander were no longer 
willing to provide services to him, and he also felt that Santander werent taking due account 
of his mental health issues when making the decisions they had. So, he raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mr Ws complaint. They felt that Mr W was potentially being taken 
advantage of by an overseas party who was possibly using his Santander account to receive 
fraudulent transfers which Mr W was then withdrawing and sending to that party overseas. 
Santander also felt that they had taken Mr Ws mental health issues into consideration and 
noted that theyd provided details of third-party organisations that may be able to help him 
manage the situation that had developed. But they reiterated that they didnt feel they could 
continue to offer banking services to Mr W moving forwards, given what they suspected was 
taking place. Mr W wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so he referred the complaint 
to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Santander had unfairly 
towards Mr W in how theyd managed this situation, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr 
W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes listening to several telephone calls between Mr W and Santander, and having 
done so its clear that Mr W feels very strongly about this complaint, including that he feels 
that Santanders decisions and actions have had a negative impact on his mental health.
I can appreciate Mr Ws position here, and its only natural to sympathise with the upset that 
Mr W has obviously incurred because of whats taken place. However, if a person has been 
upset  even to a significant degree  by the actions of a business such as Santander, it 
doesnt necessarily follow from that upset that the decisions and actions of that business that 
caused the upset were unfair or unreasonable.
In this instance, its notable that Santanders concerns about Mr Ws account began because 
of a £500 payment that was received into the account and which Santander then asked Mr 
W to provide further information about.
This included that Santander were seeking to confirm that Mr W was reasonably entitled to 
receive that £500. But Mr W couldnt confirm to Santanders satisfaction that he was entitled 
to receive the £500. Indeed, its notable that Mr W told Santander on one occasion that he 
didnt recognise the £500 payment into his account and didnt claim that he was entitled to 
receive it, but had already withdrawn a significant portion of that £500 from his account.
Mr W also explained to Santander that he believed the money being received was from his 
girlfriend who resided overseas, and to whom Mr W then transferred the received money via 
an international payment service. Mr W also explained that hed never met his girlfriend in 
person and that their relationship to this point had been long distance in nature, but that she 
was intending to come to the UK in the future.
The sincerity of Mr Ws belief isnt being questioned, but I hope hell understand that the 
explanation of events Ive described above has all the hallmarks of what is often known as a 
romance scam, whereby a person is unwittingly convinced to send money to an overseas 
romantic interest with the promise that the overseas romantic interest will then travel to the 
UK  which then ultimately doesnt happen.
Banks such as Santander have an obligation to look for any suggestion of such scams, and 
to restrict an account they believe may be involved in such a scam so that money received 
into that account cant be sent overseas until it can be confirmed that the account holder is 
reasonably entitled to receive that money and isnt unwittingly being scammed.
Because of this, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Santander to place the restrictions on 
Mr Ws account that they did following the receipt of the payment for £500 about which they 
held concerns, and also for Santander to have requested further information from Mr W 
about that received amount as they did. 
Finally, Im also satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Santander to have made the 
decision to close Mr Ws account and to no longer offer banking services to him following the 
conversations that they held with Mr W about his account. And this is because I feel it was 
reasonable for Santander to have been concerned that Mr W, either unwittingly or otherwise, 
may have been facilitating potentially fraudulent activity in regard to his receiving money into 
his account, withdrawing that money, and then sending it overseas.
It must be acknowledged at this point that, in the same way as a consumer can choose 
which bank they apply to open an account with, a bank can also choose whether they will 
offer  or continue to offer services to a particular consumer. And there isnt any obligation 
on a bank to offer its services to any particular person, including existing account holders. 
If a bank does decide to end its relationship with an account holder, then it would be 
generally expected  from the perspective of fairness  that the bank would have a justifiable 
reason for making that decision and that the bank would provide a fair amount of notice to its 
account holder that the accounts held by that person will be closed  dependent on the 
circumstances surrounding the banks decision. 
In this specific instance, Im satisfied that Santander did have a justifiable reason for making 
the decision to no longer offer their services to Mr W and to close his account. And this is 
because Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Santander to have concerns about the acts 
of potential fraud that may have been taking place from Mr Ws account following their 
conversations with Mr W about this, as explained above.Im also satisfied that Santander did give Mr W fair notice of their intention to close his 
account, which they explained to Mr W would take place in 30-days. This information was 
given to Mr W both verbally in a telephone call with Santander and in a letter sent by 
Santander to Mr Ws address. 
Mr W has explained that he never received that letter. But Im satisfied that it was sent by 
Santander and that it was addressed correctly to Mr W. Of course, this doesnt mean that Mr 
W received the letter. But this service wouldnt hold Santander accountable for the non-
delivery of correctly addressed mail, given that the delivery of mail is undertaken by a postal 
service over which Santander holds no control. And, as explained, Im also satisfied that Mr 
W was told that his accounts would be closed by Santander over the telephone.
Mr W then received a payment of £180 into his account before the account was closed. But 
because his account was still restricted, he wasnt allowed to withdraw this amount. Mr W 
has explained that the £180 received was from a family member and that he was entitled to 
receive it, and hes unhappy that Santander wanted further information from him about the 
£180 before they would consider allowing him to withdraw it.  
Again, I can appreciate Mr Ws frustration here. But given that Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for Santander to have held the concerns about Mr Ws account that they did, 
following the earlier receipt of £500 and the conversations that took place about it, Im also 
satisfied that it was reasonable for Santander to hold similar concerns about the £180 and 
for them to have required additional information about that £180 from Mr W. 
Mr W didnt provide the further information about the £180 that Santander requested, and so 
I dont feel it was unfair for Santander to restrict Mr Ws access to that money until it could be 
confirmed  through a request to the bank from where the £180 had been transferred  that 
Mr W was entitled to receive it.
Im aware that Mr W feels that throughout these events, Santander havent taken reasonable 
account of his mental health issues or of the impact on his health that their decisions and 
actions have caused. And Mr W has also stated that he feels that the members of 
Santanders staff he spoke with on the telephone didnt speak to him in acceptable way and 
that Santander have acted maliciously against him by taking the decisions that they did.
As I explained towards the start of this letter, I dont dispute that Mr W has been significantly 
upset and frustrated by what happened here, and I can understand these events may have 
affected his health. But, as also explained at the start of this letter, while I do acknowledge 
this, it doesnt follow from this acknowledgement that Santander have acted unfairly.
This is because of the obligations on Santander  as detailed earlier in this letter  to monitor 
accounts for potentially fraudulent activity, and to act to prevent potentially fraudulent activity 
from taking place. These obligations are very stringent, to the degree that I feel Santander 
were reasonably expected to take the decisions they did, even in acknowledgement of Mr 
Ws mental health issues and the potential impact those actions may have had upon him. 
In short, even in consideration of Mr Ws mental health issues, I dont feel that Santander 
were or should reasonably have been expected to have allowed Mr W to continue using his 
account, given the concerns Santander had about it. 
What Im satisfied would fairly be expected of Santander in circumstances such as these is 
that they would help Mr W negotiate the closure of his account as much as possible. And I 
note that it was to this effect that Santander provided Mr W with details of a number of 
organisations which Mr W could contact if he wanted to, which Santander felt may have 
been able to provide appropriate support to Mr W. Having listened to the telephone calls between Mr W and Santander, while I appreciate that 
Mr W may disagree, I dont feel that Santanders staff did speak to Mr W in an unreasonable 
or inappropriate way. Indeed, given Mr Ws clear and obvious distress and frustration at what 
was taking place, I feel that Santanders staff did show a degree of sympathy while at the 
time maintaining Santanders position on the matter as would be expected. 
Finally, I also dont feel that theres any evidence that any of Santanders actions or 
decisions were motivated by any form of malice against Mr W personally. Instead, Im 
satisfied that Santanders decisions were based on fair reasoning, given the overall 
circumstances here as described above, and that Santander administered Mr Ws account 
following taking the decision to close it that they did in a fair and reasonable way.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr W was wanting, but while I acknowledge the 
upset that these events have caused him, it follows from all the above that I dont feel that 
Santander have acted unfairly or done anything wrong. And this means that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action. 
Its my sincere hope that Mr W will understand, given all that Ive explained above, why Ive 
made the final decision here that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman