DRN-2415057
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Motability Operations Limited dealt with him while a lease car 
was being repaired.
What happened
Motability operates a scheme providing vehicle leasing packages for people with disabilities. 
Its explained that it operates with dealerships and relevant government agencies and
departments to enable customers to lease vehicles under three- or five-year agreements and
to have the hire paid directly from government allowances. Mr B has been a customer for
some years.
Mr B had a car provided under the Motability scheme. In or around July 2017 he complained
that it had a faulty gearbox. Motability arranged for a replacement car while Mr Bs lease car
was fixed. Mr Bs complaint primarily concerns what happened when he was driving
replacement cars. That arrangement appears to have continued for some time.
Motability has explained that, when lease cars are unavailable (because they need repairs
for which it is responsible, for example), it will arrange a temporary replacement through a
rental firm, E, with which it has an ongoing arrangement. Whilst it will fund that car as part of 
the lease agreement, it doesnt guarantee that it will be a like-for-like replacement for the 
scheme car. E is a separate business, and the cars it can provide depend on availability and 
location, amongst other things.
Mr B complained that the car he was provided with by E was unsatisfactory. Amongst other
things, he said it wasnt clean, was scratched and smelt of cigarette smoke. He said too that
E hadnt released the car to him without his driving licence  even though Motability had told
him he wouldnt need it. Hed also had to pay road tolls, and had been fined for not doing so,
while his lease car was unavailable, because the replacement wasnt registered as qualifying
for exemptions or reductions.
Motability said it had addressed a number of these issues. Mr B had been provided with a
number of cars by E. In addition, Motability said it had:
paid for a taxi when he was unable to collect a car from E;
set up and funded taxi accounts for him;
paid some of the tolls and fines, as well as Es administrative charges connected with 
them; and
entered into a new lease agreement with him at the end of 2019.
Mr B referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered his 
complaint. He noted that the complaints about the condition of the car were about the car 
that E supplied; even though Mr B was responsible for tolls and fines, Motability had paid 
some of them; alternative cars and taxi services were provided, so Mr B could stay mobile. 
He considered however that Mr B had been put to some inconvenience and suffered some 
distress, and so recommended that Motability pay him £200 in recognition of that.
Motability didnt accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case. It referred to the steps it had already taken, but also noted that it was for Mr 
B to make the necessary arrangements to register for toll exemptions or reductions.
I reviewed the case and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion, issued a 
provisional decision. In summary, I concluded  provisionally:
Because the investigator hadnt found that Motability had done anything wrong, an 
ombudsman couldnt properly make an award for distress or inconvenience. 
Motability had in any event taken a number of steps and made a number of payments 
as gestures of goodwill. I considered that it had done enough to put things right and that 
it wouldnt be fair to require it to do any more. 
Motability accepted my provisional findings but Mr B didnt. As well as repeating some of his 
earlier submissions, he said that the investigator had told him that Motability had agreed to 
pay all tolls and fines, not just those that it had already refunded.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent changed my view from that set out in my provisional decision. Im 
not persuaded that Motability did agree to refund all toll charges and fines, or that the 
investigator suggested that it had. It refunded some as a gesture of goodwill, but was under 
no obligation to do so. The agreement with E said expressly that Mr B was responsible for 
both fines and tolls and that neither Motability or E would cover them. I would need to see 
very persuasive evidence in order to conclude that Motability in fact agreed the very opposite 
of that, but havent done so. 
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that 
Motability did enough to resolve Mr Bs concerns and dont believe it needs to do any more.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Motability Operations Limited to take any further steps 
to resolve Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman