DRN-4088862
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with British Gas Insurance Limiteds (British Gas) handling of
claims made for leaks at their property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have a Home Care policy with British Gas. The policy covers, amongst other
things, problems with plumbing and drainage. Due to reoccurring leaks, Mr and Mrs L
contacted British Gas several times to use their plumbing and drainage cover.
British Gas engineers and contractors attended several times over a period of three months
to try to resolve the reoccurring leak. However, there was a significant leak and flood in
March 2022 which caused extensive damage to Mr and Mrs Ls home. As a result,
Mr and Mrs L have needed to make a claim under their home insurance for the repairs.
Mr and Mrs L say British Gas is ultimately responsible for the significant leak which caused
the damage, resulting in the necessity of a home insurance claim. This is because they say
British Gas didnt remove a blockage when they could have, prior to the significant leak. 
They want British Gas to reimburse their £300 home insurance excess and pay
compensation.
British Gas say they arent responsible for what happened as it wasnt them that caused the
blockage, or leak, and they say they resolved the issue each time it arose and was reported.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with British Gas position and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said that he didnt
think British Gas was responsible for the damage that occurred as he said they had resolved
the problems each time they were called out.
The investigator recognised that Mr and Mrs L were waiting for contact from British Gas to
arrange a visit for several weeks before the significant leak happened, but he said
Mr and Mrs L should have followed this up with them sooner. He also said there was limited
information provided, and Mr and Mrs L hadnt proven when access to their drain from a
neighbouring property was given, so he didnt conclude British Gas couldve unblocked the
drains sooner.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision. I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, 
so I issued a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my 
initial findings, before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator. 
Therefore, Im issuing a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to 
comment on my initial findings before I reach my final decision.
British Gas attended Mr and Mrs Ls property a number of times due to a reoccurring 
leak. The dispute I need to decide here is whether or not British Gas is, on balance, 
responsible for, and/or couldve prevented, the extensive leak which occurred in 
March 2022 causing significant damage, resulting in Mr and Mrs L needing to claim 
under their home insurance.
The information British Gas has provided, including information about the visits from 
their engineers, is limited and British Gas has told us it has sent us all the information 
it has. Mr and Mrs L have provided detailed summaries and timelines of what they 
say happened, which at points differs to what British Gas say. In cases like this, 
where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ill reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what do I think is more likely than not.
The records from British Gas show they first attended on 31 January 2022. The notes 
from this visit say the problem reported was that the downstairs toilet blocks and 
overflows if the upstairs toilet is flushed. The engineer reported that there was a 
blocked internal stack, and there was a leak on the flex where clearing was 
attempted, and the flex would need to be replaced. The notes say the block was 
cleared and there were no further leaks.
There was a further leak reported to British Gas on 8 February 2022. It was reported 
as a leaking flex pipe which needed replacing and that now, when the other toilet was 
used, water was coming out the pipe into the house. The engineer reported that they 
found the toilet already removed and leaking from the pan connector. They said they 
fitted a new pan connector and it was watertight.
A further leak was reported to British Gas on 15 February 2022. This was reported by
Mr and Mrs L as a previous repair on the waste pipe hadnt resolved the issue, the 
leak was back and water was everywhere. And Mr and Mrs L had said they 
suspected either the last repair didnt hold or wasnt the actual source of the leak.
The engineer reported back that they were unable to find a leak and there was a 
possible issue with the sewage vented pipe (SVP) for the upstairs and downstairs 
toilets.
Mr and Mrs L reported issues to British Gas again on 30 March 2022. This was 
reported as a leak whenever the toilets were flushed. There were two visits after this 
was reported. One on 30 March 2022 and the second on the following day.
The engineer note from 30 March 2022 says there was an issue with the downstairs 
toilet when upstairs was flushed. They said it was a recurring issue and a camera 
was needed to check from upstairs down the stack. They said the toilet needed 
removing to do so.
The engineer note from the following day says the toilet was removed and refitted. 
The toilet had been partially unblocked, and Mr and Mrs L needed to lift the block 
step in their front garden to gain access to the blockage. The note says the plumber removed the toilet and CCTV had been used to find the buried manhole and a bag 
causing the blockage and Mr and Mrs L were to make access.
A final note from 4 April 2022 says British Gas engineer used a high-pressure water 
jet to clear the bag stuck in the pipe which restored the flow.
So, this shows there were a number of visits between January and April 2022 when 
the bag was discovered in the drain and removed, which ultimately removed the 
blockage and stopped the leak. But prior to removal, a significant leaked occurred 
which caused extensive damage, which resulted in Mr and Mrs L needing to claim 
under their home insurance for the repairs.
As I say, the information provided by British Gas is limited, the extent of the detail 
about each of the visits is essentially what Ive outlined above. And this does differ 
with what Mr and Mrs L say happened, and what they say they were told by 
British Gas engineers at the visits.
In British Gas final response, theyve said, in summary, that they attended twice in 
January 2022 and resolved the blockage by clearing the main stack. They say they 
then returned on 31 March 2022 and found a bag in the drain line and Mr and Mrs L 
needed to make access. British Gas say they reattended on 4 April 2022 for the 
same problem and gained access to the drain via a neighbouring property and were 
able to remove the bag from the drain which resolved the issue.
Based on this, British Gas say they attended in a timely manner and removed the 
bag once discovered, so they say the damage caused by the leak was consequential 
and not due to their handling of things.
However, based on the information Ive seen, and unless anything changes as a 
result of the responses to my provisional decision, Im not minded to agree.
As Ive mentioned, in their final response, British Gas has referred to the visits in 
January, March and April in explaining why they did everything they needed to, and 
in a timely manner. However, as outlined above, there were also two visits in 
February, and another visit in March, which British Gas hasnt commented on in their 
final response or when demonstrating their position. And I think these visits are 
important in considering on balance, what most likely happened, the sequence of 
events and consequently whether British Gas is responsible. Ill explain why.
The notes from the first visit on 8 February 2022 say the engineer found the toilet 
already removed, and a new pan connecter was fitted. 
But the leak reoccurred, and this was reported again on 15 February 2022. The issue 
was reported by Mr and Mrs L as a leak and water everywhere, and Mr and Mrs L 
thought either the previous repair had failed or that the previous visit hadnt identified 
the source of the leak.
The engineer note from that visit says:
Unable to find a leak possibly a SVP issue with upstairs and downstairs.
So, the note indicates the engineer wasnt able to find the leak and suggested a 
possible issue with SVP. However, there was no further investigation carried out by 
British Gas following this, and no further contact with Mr and Mrs L about this until 
they again contacted British Gas at the end of March 2022.Mr and Mrs L have explained that they were told by the engineer on 15 February 
2022 that a camera was required to look into the SVP, and they would be contacted 
by a drainage engineer to arrange this. I think Mr and Mrs Ls testimony about what 
they say they were told would be the next steps fits in with the engineer note above.
Our investigator asked British Gas what would usually happy if there was a possible 
SVP issue. British Gas said that a drainage engineer would usually be appointed to 
investigate.
This also correlates with what Mr and Mrs L have said the engineer told them at the 
time would be the next steps. So, on balance, Im persuaded this was most likely the 
next steps Mr and Mrs L were told on 15 February 2022, and that British Gas failed to 
follow this up.
British Gas has said that Mr and Mrs L didnt follow it up with them either. The limited
information provided supports what British Gas say here, but given Mr and Mrs L 
were awaiting British Gas, and what they were most likely told, I dont think its 
reasonable to hold them responsible for the lack of action by British Gas here.
Had British Gas followed up on investigations in mid-February or shortly after, it is 
likely the cause of the blockage would have been identified much sooner than it was.
British Gas say a bag was identified in the drain on 31 March 2022. Whereas Mr and 
Mrs L say this was actually 30 March 2022, but the engineer wouldnt remove it at the 
time. And instead, told Mr and Mrs L to dig up their step to make access to the pipe 
which was blocked by the bag.
Mr and Mrs L say they confirmed at that time that the neighbour had given 
permission to access the drain via their property, but they say British Gas told them 
they had to dig up the step instead. They did this as advised, but ultimately this didnt 
create access. So British Gas accessed the drain via the neighbouring property and 
removed the bag on 4 April 2022. But by this point, the significant leak had 
happened, which caused extensive damage.
It is unclear from the information why British Gas didnt arrange for the bag they 
identified to be removed prior to April 2022. The policy terms say that the policy 
covers unblocking drains and repairs to restore flow, but thats not what British Gas 
did until some time after it was identified  and after the significant leak had 
happened. Instead they told Mr and Mrs L to dig to access it themselves. British Gas 
then removed the bag using a high-pressure water jet on 4 April 2022, so it is unclear 
why they didnt do this sooner which would likely have resulted in the significant leak 
being avoided.I think what is key here is what happened both after the 15 February 2022 visit, and 
the subsequent visits after. In my view, British Gas shouldve arranged for follow up
investigations after that 15 February 2022 visit, instead of doing that at the end of
March 2022. If they had done so, the bag in the pipe wouldve been discovered much
sooner.
And I dont think British Gas should have told Mr and Mrs L to arrange access, when 
access couldve been gained from a neighbouring drain to remove the bag and 
Mr and Mrs L had already obtained permission to access it  and this is how the 
blockage was resolved by British Gas  but not until 4 April 2022 after the extensive 
damage had occurred.
So, if things had gone how they shouldve after that 15 February 2022 appointment, 
the bag likely would have been identified and removed much sooner, which then 
likely wouldnt have resulted in an extensive leak or significant damage.
Therefore, based on the limited information provided, Im minded to conclude, on 
balance, British Gas is responsible for the later leak which occurred due to their 
inactions at earlier points in the timeline as Ive explained. So, unless anything 
changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, Ill be directing 
British Gas to put things right here.
Mr and Mrs L have asked for reimbursement of their home insurance excess, and
compensation.
But, I dont think British Gas just paying the excess and compensation is sufficient to 
put things right here, because if the sequence of events had been different, its likely 
a home insurance claim wouldnt have needed to have been made in the first place. 
And having made a claim, thatll likely impact Mr and Mrs Ls insurance in the future.
I need to take into account that there were always leaks in the first place, which may 
have caused some water damage. However, it is clear that the last leak, after 
British Gas had identified but not removed the bag, is the one which caused 
significant damage. This was because this was dirty water that leaked and damaged 
Mr and Mrs Ls property. And thats the event that I think couldve been avoided, and 
thats the event that led to a home insurance claim needing to be made due to the 
extent of the damage caused.
However, deciding with certainty what the impact will be to Mr and Mrs L isnt 
possible. As the fact is that a home insurance claim has now been made, and repairs 
are currently underway with the home insurance provider. But its unclear and 
unknown how much this will impact Mr and Mrs L at renewal(s) in the future.
So, Ive considered what would be, in my view, a fair and reasonable remedy in all 
the circumstances of the case given the uncertainty.
Unless anything changes as a result of the response to my provisional decision, Ill 
be directing British Gas to reimburse Mr and Mrs Ls home insurance excess, with 
8% interest added from date of payment to when it is reimbursed.
Additionally, Im also minded to direct British Gas to contact Mr and Mrs Ls home 
insurance provider to offer to reimburse the home insurer for the claim costs theyve 
incurred. The home insurer may then be able to either remove or amend internal and 
external records if theyve recovered their outlay from British Gas to reflect that they 
havent paid out on a claim.However, the home insurer may not be able to do this. So, if that is the case, and
Mr and Mrs L need to disclose the home insurance claim at renewal(s), British Gas 
will need to reimburse the difference in policy premiums, with and without the claim 
added, if there is one.
But an exact time period to do this for, and the impact over that period is difficult to 
establish, as each insurer will look at risk differently based on their own criteria and 
risk rating. So, I think a period of five years is a fair and reasonable amount of time. I 
say this because some insurers in the marketplace wont consider claims which 
occurred more than five years ago, so at that point, the premium wont be impacted 
with some insurers.
Unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, Im 
minded to conclude this is a fair and reasonable way, in all the circumstances of the 
case, to compensate Mr and Mrs L for the future impact on their insurance and 
premiums, if the home insurer is unable or unwilling to be reimbursed for their outlay, 
and/or amend internal and external records of the claim.
In addition to the impact on their future insurance, Mr and Mrs L (and family) have 
been significantly impacted as a result of the extensive flood damage and needing to 
make a claim to repair the damage. This has caused Mr and Mrs L, and family, 
significant distress and inconvenience over a period of time. This includes having to 
live with industrial dryers in their home, after it has been extensively stripped out, to 
ensure it is dry before repairs can be completed to the flooring and walls.
Given the impact, which I think could have been avoided if British Gas had followed 
up the next steps in February 2022, Im also minded to conclude Mr and Mrs L 
should be compensated £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused here.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct British Gas to:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs Ls £300 home insurance excess
Add 8% simple interest from date of payment to date of reimbursement
Approach Mr and Mrs Ls home insurance provider, and offer to reimburse them for
their outlay on the claim and repairs, and ask them to amend internal and external
records to show this
Or, if the home insurer is unable or unwilling to do this, reimburse the difference at
each renewal for the additional premium Mr and Mrs L are charged for having a claim
under their home insurance  subject to proof  for a period of five years
Pay Mr and Mrs L £750 compensation
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs L responded and agreed with the provisional decision. They outlined who their 
home insurer was and asked if British Gas would already have details to make contact with 
them.British Gas responded to the provisional decision, but they didnt agree. They said the only 
way to find the issue was to go through the steps they did, and they dont agree their 
engineers have taken any incorrect actions. They also said their contractors couldnt access 
a neighbouring property without permission to gain access to the blockage.
British Gas also say the notes indicate the blockage was found on 31 March 2022, not 
30 March 2022 as Mr and Mrs L allege.
In addition, British Gas say there is no evidence to support that Mr and Mrs L were told by 
their contractors that theyd be returning after 15 February 2022 as Mr and Mrs L allege. 
They say that what Mr and Mrs L allege shouldnt be accepted without proof being provided. 
And they outline that Mr and Mrs L should have pursued this with British Gas if they hadnt 
heard anything, given the timescale and the policy being reactive not proactive. 
British Gas said Mr and Mrs L made a claim on their home insurance and any losses are 
incurred by the insurer, not Mr and Mrs L, so they say any interest would be due to the 
insurer. In addition, they say the household insurer would be able to pursue losses under 
subrogation rights, and if the household insurer thinks British Gas is responsible, then it is for 
them to claim against British Gas rather than British Gas approach the insurer.
In addition, British Gas says any increased insurance premium Mr and Mrs L have could be 
simply offset by changing insurer. And they say there is no basis for potential losses for a 
five-year period. They also say there is an assumption with no proof that losses will be 
incurred, and Mr and Mrs L have a duty to mitigate losses. British Gas also said there is no 
evidence premiums will increase, and they dont know what the claims history is already, 
which might already be affecting the insurance premiums.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision and the 
response to it. Having done so, my final decision remains the same, and for the same 
reasons.
Whilst I note what British Gas has said about the timeline of what happened and when the 
block was discovered, I explained in my provisional decision that this differed at points to 
what Mr and Mrs L had said occurred, and British Gas also hadnt acknowledged several 
additional visits happened during that time.
As outlined in my provisional decision, the information from British Gas about the visits from 
their engineers is limited. Mr and Mrs L have provided detailed summaries of what they say 
occurred, and their sequence of events. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete 
or contradictory, Ill reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  what I think is more 
likely than not. This is what Ive done here in this case.
Whilst I note what British Gas has said, Im satisfied with the conclusions I reached about 
what most likely occurred, and the sequence of events, as I outlined in my provisional 
decision. I also explained what this was, and the reasons why I reached this on balance, and 
I dont intend to repeat that again as my view, on balance, hasnt changed.Overall, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision and for the same 
reasons. Im persuaded, on balance, that it was due to inactions by British Gas at earlier 
points which resulted in the bag not being identified or removed sooner, and this resulted in 
the extensive leak occurring which resulted in a claim under Mr and Mrs Ls home insurance 
policy needing to be made for the extensive damage caused.
In response to the proposed direction outlined in my provisional decision, British Gas has 
said that any interest would be due to Mr and Mrs Ls home insurer, not them. However, I 
dont agree with what British Gas says here. Ill explain why.
I outlined that Mr and Mrs L had to pay their £300 home insurance excess to make a claim, 
and I said I was minded to direct British Gas to reimburse that, with 8% simple interest from 
date of payment to date of settlement. It is Mr and Mrs L who are out of pocket £300 due to 
paying the excess, which if they hadnt needed to make a home insurance claim, they 
wouldnt have had to pay. So, it is Mr and Mrs L who have been deprived of that £300 for 
other purposes, so the 8% simple interest would be due to them on this amount, from date of 
payment to date of settlement. 
British Gas has also said that if Mr and Mrs Ls home insurer believes they are to blame then 
it is for them to approach British Gas directly to try and counter claim against them. 
However, the complaint Im considering here is Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about British Gas, 
and what led them to have to make a claim under their home insurance. So, my 
consideration here is what British Gas have done, and what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances for British Gas to do to put things right.
And my decision on this point remains the same. I explained that in the first instance 
British Gas will need to approach Mr and Mrs Ls home insurer to offer to reimburse the 
claim costs incurred and ask them to amend internal and external records to reflect this. And 
that direction remains the same. If Mr and Mrs L accept my final decision, theyll need to 
liaise with British Gas to provide details of the insurer and their policy and any information 
British Gas needs to be able to do this.
I also recognised in my provisional decision that Mr and Mrs Ls home insurer may not be 
willing or able to do this. And I cant direct Mr and Mrs Ls home insurer to agree to or accept 
this as this final decision and direction isnt about them. Therefore, I also considered what 
British Gas would need to do instead so that Mr and Mrs L are placed in the closest position 
as if a claim hadnt been made.
I outlined that instead, British Gas would need to reimburse the difference at each renewal 
for the additional premium Mr and Mrs L are charged for having this claim for a period of five 
years  subject to proof. I also said why I thought a period of five years was reasonable.
British Gas has made several comments in response to this:
They suggest that any increased premium could be offset by simply changing 
providers
They say there is no basis for a period of five years as there is an assumption that a 
loss would be incurred and Im overlooking the fact Mr and Mrs L need to mitigate 
loss
They say there is no evidence that the premiums will increase, and it is unknown 
what Mr and Mrs Ls claims history is which could be impacting premiumsFirstly, I dont agree with British Gas view that any increased premium could be simply offset 
by changing providers. I say this because the claim would be disclosable to other insurers 
too. So whichever insurer was potentially moved to, the claim would still be disclosable and 
be taken into account by the prospective insurer when assessing risk and premiums. 
Therefore, switching insurers wouldnt change or offset this claim being made.
I already recognised that it isnt known if there will be an impact on premiums at this stage. 
This is why I said in my provisional decision, subject to proof being provided, that this claim 
has caused an increase in premiums. This is likely easy to demonstrate the difference  with 
and without this home insurance claim specifically. And I think a period of five years is a 
reasonable period of time for the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision.
So, in summary, my final decision and direction remains the same as my provisional 
decision, for the reasons outlined in that, and above.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs Ls £300 home insurance excess
Add 8% simple interest from date of payment to date of reimbursement
Approach Mr and Mrs Ls home insurance provider, and offer to reimburse them for
their outlay on the claim and repairs, and ask them to amend internal and external
records to show this
Or, if the home insurer is unable or unwilling to do this, reimburse the difference at
each renewal for the additional premium Mr and Mrs L are charged for having a claim
under their home insurance  subject to proof  for a period of five years
Pay Mr and Mrs L £750 compensation
*If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs L how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs L a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman