DRN-3451640
The complaint
Mr W complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Rossmore Financial 
Services (Rossmore) to transfer the benefits of his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) 
and a personal pension plan (PPP) into a new personal pension in 2010. He doesnt believe 
hes received higher returns from the new pension and thinks he would have been better off 
not transferring the previous benefits. He wants to be returned to the position hed now be in 
without that advice.
What happened
In 2010 Mr Ws defined benefit OPS closed with him having accrued around 17 years 
service. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the pension was £479,378.97 and this 
value was guaranteed until 6 December 2010. He also held a PPP with another provider 
which was valued at £57,387.99  and he had recently joined his employers new defined 
contribution arrangement.
In September 2010 Mr W met with Rossmore to review his existing investments and his 
retirement provision. As a result of the meeting Rossmore recommended that Mr W 
transferred his OPS benefits and his PPP benefits into a new plan within the same wrap as 
his other ISA investments. The funds were invested into a cautious portfolio.
In 2014 Mr W was made redundant and separated from his wife. He invested the proceeds 
from his employers defined contribution scheme into the wrap at that time.
Following his later divorce, Mr W was given the family home although he had to pay his ex-
wife a lump sum in consideration of the property. He also had to give up 30% of his pension 
through a pension sharing order (PSO).
At the time of the settlement Mr Ws plan had a transfer value of £688,642. 
Mr Ws plan was subsequently transferred to a lower charging platform until, when he was 
approached by a different adviser from Rossmore, he decided to terminate his arrangement 
with it.  
The value of the plan as at 8 February 2019 was £515,215.71.
In February 2020 Mr W complained about the suitability of the advice hed received in 2010 
and the subsequent advice to transfer to a new provider. He said the projections that were 
provided to him werent consistent with what was expected from a cautious investment. 
He thought Rossmore should have used the lower rate of return as an illustration of possible 
future benefits. He also didnt think Rossmore had explained how the plans higher fees 
would impact its returns.  
Rossmore felt that Mr Ws complaint was one of investment performance against charges. It 
thought its advice had been suitable as it gave Mr W flexibility to retire if he wanted to do so 
and it also explained that the transfer value analysis (TVAS) report showed Mr W might 
receive more tax free cash and a higher annual income by transferring.  But Mr W was 
unhappy with the response, so he brought his complaint to us.
 
Initially Rossmore objected to us looking at the complaint as it said it had been made out of 
time. But one of our ombudsmen issued a decision that the complaint had been made in 
time, so one of our investigators looked into what had happened. She said the complaint 
should be upheld giving the following reasons:
She hadnt been presented with sufficient justification for the transfer. The reasons 
given were general and there didnt seem to be a specific need or requirement. 
Mr W had a cautious attitude to risk (ATR), so she thought he was unlikely to have 
wanted to give up the guarantees afforded by his OPS pension.
The suggestion that Mr W wanted more flexibility didnt give any specific reasons 
behind the desire for that flexibility. 
Because of Mr Ws cautious ATR, it seemed unlikely that returns of more than the 
critical yield required to match the scheme benefits, namely 5.1% pa - would be 
achievable. The TVAS referred to the regulators assumed mid-range rate of return  
but this was more in line with a balanced ATR.
When taking into consideration the overall charges of the new plan it was hard to see 
that the fund would achieve the required growth over and above what was needed. 
The higher charges would have affected the growth over the relatively short 
investment horizons. 
The higher charges of the wrap also meant it was probably unsuitable for Mr W to 
have transferred his PPP benefits  especially as he was already invested in 
cautious funds. 
The later changes that occurred in Mr Ws life wouldnt have had any effect on the 
advice that was given in 2010 as none of them could have been foreseen. 
    
  Rossmore didnt agree. It said that:
The investigator hadnt looked at the complaint from the viewpoint of regulation in 
2010. 
At that time, critical yield figures of 7.5% and lower could be used to justify a 
recommendation to transfer. It said it had demonstrated that returns of over 8% were 
achieved by the fund for a number of years following the advice. 
Pensions freedoms didnt exist in 2010, so if Mr W wanted future flexibility and higher 
death benefits there were limited options. In addition, the critical yield calculation 
showed that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. 
Mr W had benefited from this flexibility when he accessed tax free cash in 2015. He 
was also able to nominate his new partner to receive the death benefits from the plan 
 which wouldnt have been possible within the main scheme. 
Mr W is now retiring early which would have attracted an early retirement penalty if 
hed remained within the scheme.
It thought the complaint had been brought following Mr Ws partners recent 
successful claim for a similar matter. It believed it was Mr Ws partner who had put 
together Mr Ws complaint. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view and Rossmore asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so it was passed to me to review.  
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said Mr Ws complaint should be upheld, making the following 
points in support of my findings:I was considering the suitability of the advice given in 2010, because it followed that 
the subsequent transfer of 2016 couldnt have been possible if pension benefits 
hadnt been transferred in 2010.
Suitability of the advice around Mr Ws ISAs hadnt been considered so he should 
return to Rossmore in the first instance so it could consider that advice separately.
I addressed each of Mr Ws listed objectives from the TVAS report. I thought it was 
unlikely that the required critical yield from the new PPP would provide Mr W with 
greater benefits than he could have expected from the OPS. I thought this 
consideration of whether he would be better off financially by transferring was the 
main driver of whether the transfer was in his best interests.
I thought the other objectives could have been best met by retaining the scheme 
benefits. So I wasnt persuaded there was sufficient rationale for Mr W to have 
transferred  thereby losing the guarantees that were attached to the OPS.
I thought Mr W would have trusted Rossmore to provide him with a suitable 
recommendation  so if Rossmore had concluded that Mr W ought not to transfer, I 
think he would have heeded that advice.
As the costs within the new plan seemed to be higher than the existing PPP, it was 
likely the advice to transfer the PPP also wasnt in Mr Ws best interest. And I hadnt 
seen any evidence that Rossmore considered whether it was better for Mr W to 
transfer his PPP into the employers new defined contribution scheme. So I couldnt 
safely say that it wasnt in his best interests to have transferred the PPP into the new 
PPP. 
It was difficult to conclude that the 2016 advice was in Mr Ws best interest when 
comparing the illustration of potential future benefits against investment into cautious 
risk rated funds. But in any case, the transfer wouldnt have occurred without the 
2010 advice  so my recommended redress took into consideration the effects of the 
second transfer.
Rossmore needed to carry out a redress calculation in accordance with the 
regulators pension review guidance for the transfer of the OPS benefits in 2010. It 
also needed to compare the notional value of the previous PPP with the actual value 
of that element within the new plan, up to the point Mr W changed to a new adviser 
and provider.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Rossmore didnt agree and made a further submission which said:
In the background section of my provisional decision I hadnt stated that Rossmore 
was taken over by another firm in 2017. So Mr W couldnt have been approached by 
another adviser from Rossmore after that time. 
The advice to transfer in 2010 was underpinned by Mr Ws desire for more flexibility 
in his pension  which wasnt common at that time. Ultimately this flexibility turned 
out to be justified particularly with the actions Mr W needed to take around his 
divorce.
It was unlikely that Mr W could have put the PSO into place that was agreed in 2014 
following his divorce through his OPS. 
So, as it was likely he would have needed to transfer to a PPP at that point anyway, 
the redress should be calculated up to that point.  
Following a meeting in February 2018 Mr W became a non-communicative client  
even though he was aware that annual meetings were part of Rossmores service. It 
was decided that meetings including Mr Ws new partner were awkward and that a 
new adviser might be better placed to deal with Mr W. However, it wasnt possible to 
arrange further meetings with Mr W and he transferred his business away in 
June 2019 and all further adviser charges were stopped at that time.Adviser charges had been stopped in error by the platform from March 2015 to 
February 2017, so as Rossmore didnt think it was fair to ask Mr W for these fees, it 
hadnt received them. 
Id said that Mr W should be returned as close to the position he would now be in but 
for Rossmores advice  but that would require him to return the funds hed 
withdrawn to pay his ex-wife and keep his property. It thought this was an example of 
the benefits Mr W had received from the flexibility of his new PPP which werent 
allowed for in any redress calculation.
It thought redress, and any potential loss, should be calculated up to 2014 for the 
OPS transfer and 2019 for the PPP transfer.   
Mr W accepted the outcome but, having seen Rossmores response to the provisional 
decision, he wanted to make the following points for my consideration:
Hed only ever received advice from his original adviser, so he hadnt lost anything by 
not receiving regulated advice after Rossmore was acquired by a new firm in 2017. 
Although he used the PPP to comply with the PSO, he could equally have used the 
OPS to comply with the order.
He agreed to transfer to potentially increase the value of his PPP in 2010  not to 
increase flexibility in his pension planning. The flexibility that he was able to use 
when he got divorced could only be justified with the benefit of hindsight. 
He could have used other options to pay off his ex-wife and remain in the marital 
home. If that wasnt possible, he would have sold the house. He only used the PPP 
to raise the capital because it was an option available to him at the time. 
It wasnt necessarily the case that he would have had to transfer from the OPS by 
2014 as a result of the divorce.
He thought the redress should be capped at the point he left Rossmore (or the firm 
that acquired it) which was in June 2019. 
He confirmed the meetings that had been held with his adviser in 2016 and 2018. 
Hed never been made aware that the adviser felt uncomfortable with his partner 
present at any meeting and decided he no longer trusted the adviser in June 2019. 
He didnt wish to use a different adviser from the new firm. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered the further submissions from both parties, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings. 
I think the advice to transfer Mr Ws pensions was unsuitable  so Ill confirm my reasons.
Rossmore said that in my provisional decision I had continued to refer to its business and 
adviser by name even though it had been taken over by another business in December 
2017. 
I understand why Rossmore may have been concerned at this reference, but I referred to it 
as the business throughout my provisional decision for clarity and consistency. I hope that 
Rossmore is able to accept that as the only reason for continuing to refer to it throughout this 
final decision as well.
The OPS transferRossmore has said that Mr W benefited from increased flexibility to his pension planning 
when he transferred, and that he wanted this extra flexibility  which was supported by the 
fact he was able to subsequently withdraw funds to enable him to pay off his ex-wife and 
keep the marital home when he divorced. Rossmore said such flexibility was rare within 
pensions in 2010 and this was important to Mr W.  But in its TVAS report Rossmore defined 
the flexible priorities in more detail. In order to decide if these priorities justified the advice to 
transfer, Ive looked at each one below.
Increase in potential pension benefits 
Rossmore produced a TVAS report to show Mr W whether he would be better off financially 
by transferring. The report noted that he could expect an annual guaranteed minimum 
pension (GMP) of £678 and an annual pension of £24,485 in excess of that GMP, from his 
OPS. The transfer value from the scheme for Mr Ws benefits at that time was £479,378.97.
So in order to demonstrate justification for the transfer Rossmore confirmed the growth that 
would be needed from the new PPP to match the OPS benefits  known as the critical yield. 
This was confirmed as 5.6% and 5.1% (if tax free cash was taken), at age 65, and 9.7% or 
8.8% at age 60. So as Rossmores advice was given during the period when the Financial 
Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld, Ive 
compared the critical yield against these rates. Thats because although businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I believe they 
provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably 
achievable when the advice was given. 
In this case the discount rates were 5.5% at age 60 and 6% at age 65.
So I dont think it was likely that, at age 60, Mr W could have achieved the growth that 
Rossmore had stated would be required just to match the OPS benefits and I think he could 
expect not to be better off as a result of transferring. It should also be noted that the critical 
yield was the rate required simply to match the OPS benefits, not exceed them. On the basis 
that there would be little benefit in transferring just to match existing benefits the returns 
needed to be greater than those quoted to achieve that purpose. 
However, it could be argued that, at age 65, the discount rate suggested that the required 
critical yield as set out by Rossmore might be achievable. But that needs to be considered in 
the context of the risk Mr W would have been prepared to take. Mr W was defined as a 
cautious investor. His funds were invested into a cautious portfolio. At that time the 
regulator set out certain assumed rates of return which were to be used in illustrations and 
reports. At the time its prescribed rates were 5,7 and 9%, so as a cautious investor I think it 
was reasonable for Mr W to consider the lower growth rates that were used. 
But these rates didnt include charges, which Rossmore noted were around 2%, so with the 
addition of these charges, I think it would have been difficult to demonstrate that Mr W would 
be better off by transferring without taking on considerably more risk than he was prepared 
to. 
Put simply the illustration which would have allowed Mr W to make an informed choice about 
whether the transfer was in his best interests wouldnt have been aligned with the likely 
returns Mr W could have realistically expected from more cautious rated funds. 
Security of Mr Ws pension fundBy transferring Mr W lost the income guarantees he could have expected from his OPS. I 
think this objective was best achieved by not transferring into an investment backed plan 
which could rise and fall in value.
Tax free lump sum
Rossmore has referred to Mr Ws ability to draw cash from his PPP in order to pay off his ex-
wife during their divorce. It said this flexibility was part of Mr Ws needs. But there isnt any 
evidence to support the claim that Mr W needed particular earlier access to his tax free lump 
sum, or required a specific amount, at the time of the advice So Ive concluded that he could 
equally have satisfied his requirement for tax free cash from his OPS at retirement.
Spouses and dependents pension  
Similar to the above objectives I think this could equally have been attained through the 
scheme benefits at retirement. Although Rossmore has referred to the subsequent changes 
in Mr Ws domestic situation, this wasnt known at the time of the advice when Mr W was still 
married to Mrs W. The advice should only have been based on the situation as it was known 
at the time.
Early retirement
Although an actuarial reduction would have applied if Mr W retired early  he would have 
received a guaranteed income which would gone up in line with certain indices. Early 
retirement using the PPP would have meant accessing a smaller fund than expected at 
normal retirement which might then have provided a lower income over a longer period of 
time. I think the situation is broadly neutral here, so I dont think this objective was 
necessarily best achieved by transferring.
Death and ill health benefits before retirement
There was no suggestion of any health issues that might make this objective particularly 
important to Mr W. I think the OPS would have provided benefits, albeit in the form of an 
income as opposed to a lump sum, if anything had happened to Mr W and I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest this was something he felt strongly about when considering his 
options.
So I dont believe the PPP offered any particular benefits to Mr W, given his circumstances 
in 2010, that wasnt equally available to him through the OPS. And I dont believe any of 
these objectives, while I cant discount that they would have been of some interest to him, 
would have had the same importance as whether he would be better off financially by 
transferring. I think this would have been the top priority among his considerations and from 
the evidence Ive seen, Im not satisfied that retaining security of the fund and increasing his 
pension benefits were objectives that were best served from transferring the OPS benefits to 
a PPP.
The PPP transfer 
Ive looked carefully at the existing PPP Mr W held in 2010 to determine the reasons for 
recommending its transfer. Rossmore said that Mr W wanted to consolidate his plans into 
the same investment wrap and wanted further investment diversification  although still in 
line with the cautious ATR.The PPP was valued at £57,387.99 and its overall charges were 1.51%. The underlying 
investment was already in line with Mr Ws cautious ATR. I havent been provided with an 
illustration that would have shown Mr W the difference between the likely returns from both 
the existing and proposed PPP  but I have seen the breakdown of charges that would have 
been applied on transfer. These were an initial fee of 1% and then ongoing charges of 
around 2.21% of the fund. So when comparing the charges its clear that Mr W would have 
paid higher fees after transferring, which I think would have eroded the fund and, given the 
limited investment horizon, would have made it unlikely that the new PPP could have 
achieved the required growth to provide Mr W with greater benefits. 
I have also considered whether an illustration would have led Mr W to the same conclusion 
as Rossmore, but as an illustration would have used the same prescribed assumed rates of 
growth as set out by the regulator, I think it would have demonstrated that Mr W wouldnt 
have been better off because the only variable factor would have been the charges  which 
Ive already said were higher with the new PPP.
But there was another reason to consider when looking at if the advice to transfer the PPP 
was in Mr Ws best interests. Mr W had joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) 
pension scheme and was a member at the time of the advice. One of the options he had 
with his PPP was to transfer the fund to the DC scheme  particularly if, as Rossmore had 
suggested, he wanted to consolidate his plans as far as possible. I havent been provided 
with any evidence which would allow me to compare the DC scheme and the other PPPs 
and I havent been able to find out this information. 
But regardless of that fact, I would have expected to see evidence of a comparison by 
Rossmore to show whether it was in Mr Ws best interest to transfer the existing PPP to the 
DC pension scheme.  Usually such group schemes as operated by employers will have 
lower ongoing charges which they have been able to negotiate with the pension provider  
although I cant confirm that was the case here. But I would still have expected Rossmore to 
confirm the position to Mr W by way of an illustration or even production of the scheme 
booklet.
However, taking all of this information into consideration, I havent been persuaded that 
Rossmores advice to transfer the PPP was suitable. I think it would have been in his best 
interests not to have transferred based on the comparison of charges, but I also cant 
discount it might have been in his interests to have transferred to the DC scheme instead.
The later events
Much of Rossmores further submission related to the events that happened later in Mr Ws 
life, such as his divorce, making a cash payment from his pension to his ex-wife, travelling to 
live abroad for a while, and meeting a new partner. Rossmore said the flexibility Mr W 
required from his pension gave him the ability to deal with these events  which he wouldnt 
have been able to do if hed remained a member of the OPS. 
Mr W has disputed that and says that he could have dealt with all of those events without 
using his PPP fund, he simply took advantage of the facility as it was available to him at 
various times.
But I dont think any of the events which subsequently happened could have been foreseen 
at the time of the advice. And Rossmores advice was based on the circumstances as it 
understood them to be at that time. In 2010 Mr W was still married and there was no 
suggestion that he didnt intend to use his OPS benefits for anything except for his and 
Mrs Ws benefit at his normal retirement age.So I cant agree that any of the later events had any bearing on the 2010 advice, which Ive 
already said wasnt suitable in my view. 
Rossmore has also used these events as reasons to suggest restricting the amount of 
compensation payable to Mr W. It says any compensation due as a result of the OPS 
transfer should be restricted to the date in 2014 when Mr W had to pay his wife a financial 
settlement and met the requirements of a PSO. It says its unlikely he could have done that 
using the OPS. Rossmore has also referred to the lack of reviews it had with Mr W and the 
loss of ongoing fees it suffered from 2015 to 2017 because of an error by the provider  
which it cant now obtain from Mr W as he has transferred his plan elsewhere. 
I have some sympathy for Rossmore losing out on some of the fees due  which wasnt as a 
result of its error. But my redress below will take that into account because the comparison 
wont include those advice fees which ought to mean that any compensation payable is 
reduced as a result of Rossmore not having received the fees. 
But Im not persuaded that the redress should be limited by any of the other events that 
happened. I say that because the actuarial calculation will take into account subsequent 
withdrawals from the PPP and any withdrawal of tax free cash for example. So Mr W wont 
benefit unfairly from the funds he was able to use for other purposes such as paying off his 
ex-wife.  And defined benefit pension schemes are able to encompass PSOs or earmarking 
orders. This information would have been available from the scheme trustee at the time of 
the order.  
If Mr W hadnt been able to take the financial actions that he did around 2014 because of 
membership of the OPS, he could or would have had to take alternative courses of action. I 
dont think the redress calculation should therefore be restricted to that date. And while Ive 
considered the suitability of the advice to transfer to a different platform in 2016, that transfer 
wouldnt have happened without the 2010 advice to transfer. In my view the liability should 
be capped at the point Mr W transferred his funds to another provider as Rossmore was 
then simply unable to do anything to mitigate its position. So Ive set out my final decision 
below on how Rossmore should put things right.  
Putting things right
The OPS transfer
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Rossmore must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Rossmore must contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
Rossmore receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Rossmore to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
The PPP transfer
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice around his PPP.
I take the view that Mr W would have remained invested within his existing PPP, so Im 
satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr W's circumstances and 
objectives when he invested.
What must Rossmore do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Rossmore must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below up to the point Mr W transferred away  but with any loss being brought up to 
date as set out in the table below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is         
payable.
Rossmore should add interest as set out below
Rossmore should pay into Mr W's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Rossmore is unable to pay the total amount into Mr W's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr W wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr W £300 for the disruption to his retirement planning and concern of the 
potential size of the financial loss he's suffered.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Rossmore deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Rossmore should give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr W asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
Investment 
wrap but only 
for 
transferred 
amount from 
original PPP.Transferred 
awayThe original 
PPPDate of 
investmentDate ceased to 
be held, but 
any loss
should be
brought up to
date by having
the notional
returns applied
to it from the
date the loss
is capped to
the date of this
final decision.8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Rossmore totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money since the 
end date.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Ws complaint against Rossmore Financial 
Services.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the business to pay 
the balance.
Rossmore Financial Services should provide details of its calculation to Mr W in a clear, 
simple format.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Rossmore Financial Services should pay 
Mr W the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 (including 
distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the amount set out 
above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that Rossmore Financial Services pays Mr W the balance plus any 
interest on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Rossmore 
Financial Services. It is unlikely that Mr W can accept my decision and go to court to ask for 
the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman