DRN-2873232
The complaint
Mr S complains that the tools NOTESCO UK LIMITED (Notesco) provided him with to 
facilitate foreign exchange trading malfunctioned, leading him to incur significant losses. He 
also feels he was provided with unauthorised advice on using Notescos platform by a 
member of its staff. Mr S is represented in bringing his complaint by Ms R.
  
What happened
Notesco didnt uphold Mr S complaint. It stressed that it provided an execution-only service 
and said it could find any evidence of advice being provided to Mr S. Further, thered been 
no issues reported with its platform at the time in question. And if problems had been 
encountered, Mr S couldve called its dealing desk to place an instruction.    
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator also didnt feel it should be 
upheld. He said, in brief: 
Ms R had submitted a wide-ranging complaint concerning Mr S relationship with 
Notesco and its management of his account but there was no specific evidence to 
show what had gone wrong.
There was no indication of which particular trades had been advised upon that had 
led to losses for Mr S. 
It was uncertain whether the alleged losses were due to incorrect advice or technical 
problems with Notescos platform.  
There was no record of any communications in which Mr S was directly advised to 
trade. It was likely an account manager wouldve provided some guidance and 
information, but this wouldnt have constituted advice. 
The terms of the account explained that it was provided on an execution-only basis. 
Mr S had confirmed that hed read these terms. 
Calling the dealing desk wouldve been a reasonable response to any problems with 
the on-line platform. 
There was no confirmation of specific losses resulting from any advice given. 
In summary, there wasnt enough evidence to be able to conclude that Notesco had 
acted incorrectly in any way.
Ms R responded on Mr S behalf to request some additional time to provide further 
information. There followed a submission of a statement from a colleague of the Notesco 
staff member it was claimed had advised Mr S. 
The investigator confirmed to Ms R that it was still unlikely as the evidence stood that a 
finding would be made that Notesco had acted incorrectly. Ms R requested more time to 
provide additional information, but none was forthcoming. 
As the matter remains the unresolved, Im now reviewing the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I dont feel Ive seen sufficient evidence to find, on balance, that Notesco 
acted incorrectly.
Ms R has made broad allegations about what Mr S feels Notesco did wrong  the provision 
of inappropriate advice and the failure of the trading tools. But little detail has been provided 
about this. Without more specific information about what went wrong and, in particular, how 
this led to a loss for Mr S, its difficult to reach any reasonable conclusions on whether 
Notesco was in any way responsible for what is alleged to have happened. 
I can see that the items of evidence that have been provided  the trading statements, 
messages, calls and videos, etc. all appear to relate to the time and issue in question in 
some way. But Im unable to determine how they interconnect and support the allegations 
that a) advice was given and b) that the business acted to create a technical issue that led to 
a loss. Nothing thats been provided in response to further calls for evidence or explanation 
has persuaded me that its more likely than not that Notesco acted incorrectly. 
Ive also considered the statement provided by the colleague of the Notesco staff member 
who is said to have advised Mr S. This reiterates the allegations at the heart of the complaint 
but, set against the aforementioned lack of detail and/or contemporaneous documentary 
evidence, I can only attach limited weight to it. As such, it remains the case that a 
consideration of the evidence as a whole together with the wider circumstances leaves me 
unable to conclude, on balance, that Notesco acted incorrectly or unfairly.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman