DRN-1479105
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly declined her 
claim and unfairly added an exclusion to her pet insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Red Sands, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of the key points here.  
On 12 March 2018 Mrs T took out pet insurance for her dog N which was provided by Red 
Sands. Later in 2018 Mrs T went on to make a claim for pre-authorisation of the veterinary 
costs to investigate N for Brachycephalic Obstructive Airway Syndrome (BOAS). 
Red Sands looked at Ns records and said that there were signs relating to BOAS which 
predated the policy. So they declined the claim and added an exclusion for all claims with 
respect to the Respiratory System, which they backdated to the start of the policy. Mrs T 
complained, she highlighted further responses from her vet and said the signs of BOAS 
didnt develop until after the policy had started. She also didnt think it was fair for Red Sands 
to add the exclusion.
Ultimately Red Sands maintained their position and the matter was referred to our service. 
One of our investigators thought the complaint should be upheld. She accepted it was fair for 
Red Sands to decline the claim as pre-existing but she didnt think it was fair for Red Sands 
to add the broad exclusion they had. So she recommended that it be removed from Mrs Ts 
policy. Red Sands didnt accept this and have asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ts policy says that there isnt any cover for Any pre-existing condition or claim for costs 
relating to an injury or illness that relates to or results from an accident, injury, illness or 
clinical signs your pet had before the commencement date... 
A specific definition for pre-existing condition is given in the policy of any condition, 
symptom or sign of a condition occurring or existing in any form and at any time prior to the 
commencement date
Terms like this are very common in this type of insurance and I dont think this is inherently 
unfair. Red Sands are setting out that they will provide cover against N developing an illness, 
condition or having an accident during the period of insurance. But if there was something 
that first showed signs prior to the policy starting, it isnt covered.Red Sands have highlighted that on 9 March 2018 Ns clinical notes state URT noise 
referred. (URT refers to the upper respiratory tract). Red Sands veterinary consultant also 
concluded that this respiratory noise was consistent with the onset of BOAS. The policy 
doesnt require that there is a diagnosis; just that any sign of a condition had occurred prior 
to the commencement of the policy. 
Mrs Ts policy didnt start until 12 March 2018. So, I dont think Red Sands decision to 
decline the claim as pre-existing was unreasonable in these circumstances. I appreciate 
Mrs T submitted further evidence from her vet which explained that they didnt consider the 
noise to be unusual for the breed of dog. But the vet must have felt it was significant enough 
(with full knowledge of Ns breed) to comment on it in the clinical notes made at the time. So 
overall, I think it is fair for Red Sands to decline the claim on that basis. 
However, I dont think Red Sands treated Mrs T fairly when adding the exclusion all claims 
with respect to the respiratory system and backdating this to the start of the policy.
There is a term within the policy which gives Red Sands the right to add an exclusion if N 
showed any clinical signs or an illness prior to the commencement date of the policy. But the 
exclusion Red Sands added is much wider and excluded cover for the whole respiratory 
system. Thats not in line with the policy terms, which allow them to add an exclusion for the 
specific condition. 
Further to this, the remedy for an insurer to go back in time and retrospectively apply an 
exclusion is set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(or CIDRA). This places a consumer under the duty to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when entering into (or varying) an insurance contract. For a remedy to be 
available to Red Sands under CIDRA, they would need to establish that Mrs T failed to 
answer a clear question about Ns health with reasonable care. They would also need to 
show that if Mrs T had taken reasonable care, they would only have offered her a policy that 
excluded cover for all issues relating to the respiratory system. 
Red Sands havent been able to show that Mrs T has made a misrepresentation in line with 
CIDRA. So I dont think it was fair for them to add the exclusion retrospectively. However, as 
Ive covered, I think the claim was fairly declined as I think they have shown that it relates to 
a pre-existing condition (within the policy terms). Taking everything into account, I dont think 
it was fair for Red Sands to add the broad exclusion to Mrs Ts policy. So, I think a fair 
resolution is that they remove the exclusion from the policy. 
I understand Mrs T feels that she should also be compensated for the stress these events 
have caused her. Ive thought carefully about this and Im not making an award. This is 
because I dont think Red Sands provided poor service to the extent that compensation 
needs to be paid. 
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Red Sand Insurance Company (Europe) Limited must remove the exclusion all claims with 
respect to the respiratory system from Mrs Ts policy. 
 
My final decisionUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman