DRN-4401512
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was deliberately stopped from using a payment of £25,000 to bring 
down the amount owed on his existing mortgage with Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
Mr D said that he had been prevented, in a branch of Nationwide, from making a payment, 
which would have reduced the amount he owed on his mortgage. He said he then stopped 
paying his mortgage for some time, to force Nationwide to address these matters. But 
instead, it took legal action, and he had to bring the mortgage account up to date.
Mr D didnt tell us when this incident happened. He said he wanted us to insist that
Nationwide clarify the date of the incident. Mr D also said that, although he holds all the
relevant information, he would withhold dates which showed when the incident occurred,
until Nationwide had clarified this.
Nationwide wrote to Mr D in response to his complaint in 2022. It said then that its branch
manager couldnt recall refusing to accept a lump sum payment towards a mortgage.
Nationwide said that not all its branches have mortgage consultants, so it was sorry if it
hadnt been able to help Mr D in branch to make changes to his mortgage.
But when this complaint was referred to our service, Nationwide said that this complaint
might refer back to an incident Mr D said happened in 2017. And Nationwide said it had
responded to Mr Ds complaint then, and explained to Mr D that there was a six month
deadline for referring a complaint to our service. So Nationwide didnt think our service could
consider this now.
Our investigator thought our service could look into this complaint. She said she couldnt see
Mr Ds complaint about not being permitted to pay a lump sum towards his mortgage had
been raised with Nationwide until April 2018. And she said Nationwide hadnt responded to
this complaint until October 2022, after Mr D had raised the issue again with Nationwide.
Our investigator said, however, that it was difficult for her to consider Mr Ds complaint that
Nationwide didnt accept his £25,000 overpayment, when he hadnt told us when this
happened. She said we and Nationwide had asked when this happened, and Mr D had 
declined to tell us. Nationwide had approached the relevant branch, but the staff there 
couldnt recall the event. Our investigator said she couldnt be satisfied that Nationwide had 
treated Mr D unfairly or ask it to do anything differently to resolve this complaint.
Mr D replied to disagree. He said that on the visit he made to the branch, he sat and waited
to be served, but received no assistance from the staff. He said when it became obvious that
he wasnt going to receive any attention, he left, walked up to his bank, and put this money
in his savings instead. Mr D said he was deliberately ignored by staff.
Mr D said this happened shortly before a letter he received from Nationwide, dated 5 July
2017, but he didnt give us any more information on when this was. And our investigator said
she couldnt look into this further for Mr D, without that information. Because no agreement
was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision. And I then reached my 
provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Nationwide has previously challenged our services jurisdiction on this case. But I dont
understand it to have continued to challenge this, once our investigator explained why 
she thought we could consider this case. For the avoidance of doubt, I agree that this 
case has been brought to our service in time. I dont think that the complaint Mr D brings 
now was set out for Nationwide until April 2018. And the letter that Nationwide sent Mr D 
then didnt start the deadline for a complaint. For that reason, I dont think his complaint 
is out of time now.
Mr Ds complaint is that Nationwide refused to allow him to pay a lump sum off his 
mortgage. Mr D says he considers this to be illegal and criminal. Mr D hasnt told us 
when this refusal to accept a lump sum payment happened. However, in his more 
recent letters to us, Mr D has told us more about what happened, as set out above.
Mr D doesnt allege that any Nationwide member of staff actually told him that he 
couldnt make a payment. He simply says he visited a branch, intending to make a 
payment. He then sat for some time in the branch. He felt he was deliberately ignored, 
and said he left when he felt he clearly wasnt going to be served. So it doesnt appear 
that Mr D, on his evidence, actually spoke to any staff member on this date.
Mr D has been very concerned that Nationwide hasnt set out when it considers the 
alleged incident in branch happened. Our service has asked Mr D to provide more 
information on the exact date, and although he said he could supply an exact date, he 
hasnt done so. I understand Mr D feels that if he does so, he will be giving Nationwide 
information it doesnt currently have.
I think that the lack of a precise date is unlikely to make a difference in this case. Thats
because I think its very unlikely that such a date (which Mr D has been clear, was 
before July 2017) would assist now in resolving this case. The events of the relevant 
date were clearly very memorable to Mr D. But it doesnt seem likely that staff at this 
branch would recall an event several years ago, when on one date an individual came 
into branch, didnt speak to staff, and then left. Because of that, I think its reasonable for 
me to decide this case on the basis of what Mr D has told us to date.
I have therefore considered what Mr D has told us about what happened, and in 
particular, that hes told us Nationwide didnt expressly refuse to allow him to pay in a 
cheque, but in his view, deliberately ignored him. And I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to conclude that its most likely Nationwides intentions on that date 
were to prevent Mr D from paying in a cheque to clear part of his mortgage.
I dont think there is sufficient evidence, on what Mr D has said, for me to conclude that 
its most likely Nationwides staff wished to prevent Mr D from making a lump sum 
payment, or that they would have refused to accept this payment if asked. I also havent 
been able to decide here that its more likely that Nationwide behaved unreasonably or 
unfairly to Mr D, on the relevant date. I do think it would have been reasonable for Mr D 
to try again to make this payment, or to contact Nationwide otherwise than through this 
branch, if he wished to use the money towards his mortgage.I know that Mr D will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide replied, simply to confirm that it had received my provisional decision, and say it 
had nothing to add. Our service hasnt received any response from Mr D before the deadline 
set out in my provisional decision, and our attempts to contact him havent been successful. 
So neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my 
mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman