DRN-1606430
 
The complaint
Mrs G says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a store card in 1994. The 
policy was added to Mrs G's store card account when she applied for the card in person. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities - that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint because I think if better information about the 
policy's costs and benefits had been provided by AXA, it's unlikely Mrs G would have taken it 
out. 
The information AXA gave Mrs G about the cost and benefit wasn't as clear as it should 
have been. I say this because although Mrs G may have been told the cost was no more 
than £1.00 per £100 of the outstanding balance, I think it's unlikely she would've been told 
that the premium would be added to her store card balance and could attract interest. I also 
think it's unlikely that AXA pointed out that the benefit was actually less than 15% in real 
terms, as Mrs G would have to continue paying the premium while receiving the policy 
benefit. 
I think this would have mattered to Mrs G because at the point of sale she's said she was 
entitled to full pay from her employer for twelve months if she was off work sick. So she 
doesn't appear to have had a strong need for the policy, given she had other ways to meet 
the store card repayments for a while without it.
AXA suggests Mrs G should provide proof of the sick pay she says she was entitled to. But 
I'm mindful that this sale took place many years ago, so I don't think it's reasonable to expect 
Mrs G to provide the detailed evidence AXA is seeking.Mrs G has also told me about an injury she suffered at work shortly after she took out the 
policy. The injury meant she was medically retired about a year later, and Mrs G says she 
received full pay from her employer until she retired.
Given the detailed testimony Mrs G has provided, and the nature of her employment, on 
balance I think it's reasonable for me to accept what she's told me about the sick pay she 
says she was entitled to.
So I remain of the view that Mrs G wouldn't have wanted to take out the policy if she had 
better understood its cost and limited benefit to her.
So, I think Mrs G has lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs G in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs G would have owed when she closed her 
store card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs G owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs G would have 
owed when she closed her account - from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs G would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs G paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs G paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs G wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs G what its done to work out A, B and C.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AXA France IARD to pay compensation to 
Mrs G in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman