DRN-3186440
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as U, complains that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE 
wont refund the premium it paid for a contingency non-appearance insurance policy.
What happened
U took out a policy with Liberty in January 2020 to provide cover for a musical tour due to 
take place between February and April 2020. At the start of March (and before the policy 
premium had been paid) Us broker contacted Liberty to say their client had decided to 
cancel the remainder of the tour as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. They asked if the 
policy could be cancelled from the outset. 
Liberty said as theyd already been on risk for a month a time on risk premium would be 
applied. The broker confirmed on 9 March the policy should be cancelled on that basis. A 
week later U paid the full premium for the policy.  
U accepted the policy didnt cover the cancellation of the tour because of Covid-19 but asked 
for the policy to be extended to cover any rescheduled tour dates or for the premium it had 
now paid to be refunded as the March and April dates hadnt taken place. Liberty didnt 
agree to that. It said under the terms of the policy the contract was non-cancellable other 
than by the underwriters in the event of non-payment of premium. 
Our investigator said the policy didnt allow for any extension to cover rescheduled tour 
dates and didnt think it was unfair Liberty hadnt agreed to that as U didnt know when any 
rescheduled dates were to take place. She also said under the terms of the policy there was 
no entitlement to a refund of premiums paid. But she noted where premiums werent paid 
within a set timescale (which they hadnt been in this case) the insurer could cancel the 
policy. 
And Liberty had confirmed on 9 March the policy would be cancelled with a time on risk 
premium charged.  In the circumstances she thought it was fair Liberty should retain the 
premium for the time it had been on risk but it should refund any payment over this amount 
and pay interest at 8% simple on this amount to recognise that U had been without these 
funds. 
U agreed (and said it was no longer interested in using the policy to cover rescheduled tour 
dates). Liberty didnt agree and said the policy gave it discretion as to whether to cancel in 
the event of non-payment. So I need to reach a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of the policy U took out. In relation to cancellation 
they say:
This Contract of Insurance is non-cancellable by either party, other than by the Underwriters 
in the event of non-payment of premium and there can be no return of premium unless 
otherwise stated in the Schedule.
And in relation to non-payment of premium the policy says:
If the premium due under this contract has not been so paid to [broker] by the 13th day from 
the inception of this contract (and, in respect of instalment premiums, by the date they are 
due) Insurers shall have the right to cancel this contract by notifying the Assured via the 
broker in writing. 
In the event of cancellation, premium is due to Insurers on a pro rata basis for the period that 
Insurers are on risk
I agree the terms of the policy dont provide for any refund of premium in the event of 
cancellation. I also accept Liberty has the right to cancel the policy in the event of non-
payment of premium but the policy doesnt require it to do so and that is at its discretion. 
However, Ive also thought about whether its fair in the circumstances of this case for Liberty 
to retain the whole of the premium U paid. I dont think it is. Thats because having reviewed 
the correspondence between Liberty and Us broker I think prior to the full premium being 
paid Liberty had already agreed to exercise its discretion to cancel the policy and only 
charge a time on risk premium. 
In particular, on 5 March the broker emailed Liberty and said the client has asked us to 
cancel this policyplease can you confirm that you are happy to cancel the policy ab initio. 
In response Liberty said it is a three months period policy and we have been on a risk for 
one month so a third of the premium is due. The broker said a few days later we have 
advised the client the policy will be cancelled and a time on risk premium will be charged as 
requested by you. Liberty asked if the policy should therefore be cancelled and the broker 
confirmed that was the case. 
Liberty hasnt suggested those comments were made in error or by someone who wasnt 
authorised to act on its behalf. As a result I think its fair to say they represent an agreement 
on its part to cancel the policy and charge a premium for the time it was on risk. 
Im unclear why U then appears to have paid the full premium for the policy rather than just 
the time on risk element. It may have done so in error. But Liberty had already agreed the 
policy should be cancelled with only a time on risk premium charged. Ive seen nothing to 
show the position had changed from that set out in the earlier exchanges. On that basis I 
think it would be fair of it to honour the agreement it had already made with Us broker.
Putting things right
It was agreed between Liberty and Us broker that U would only pay for the time on risk and 
the policy would be cancelled on 9 March. So I think Libertys time on risk should therefore 
run from the inception date until then. Liberty will need to calculate the time on risk premium 
relating to that period and refund U any amounts it has paid in excess of that amount. 
And to recognise the fact U has been without those funds I also think its fair for Liberty to 
pay 8% simple interest on the amount refunded from the date the premium was paid until the 
settlement date. My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE will need to put 
things right by doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman