DRN-3670330
The complaint
Mr K complains that the service and information he has received from National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest) has been poor, with a number of administration errors taking place with 
his mortgage accounts.
What happened
Mr K has a repayment mortgage with NatWest. Hes had this in place since 2001 and says 
he has had cause for concern at different points during his time with the bank.
In February 2021, Mr K complained to NatWest about the general administration of his 
mortgage. He feels mistakes were made when he made overpayments to the mortgage 
when NatWests system was down. This led to him being charged an Early Repayment 
Charge (ERC) in error. 
Mr K questioned whether all of the sub accounts attached to his mortgage are correct. He 
also questioned whether his annual overpayment allowance had been calculated correctly 
and if any other charges or fees had been applied to the account. This was in addition to the 
ERC which Mr K felt had been incorrectly applied.
NatWest clarified the number of sub accounts Mr K has with it. The breakdown showed his 
main mortgage was converted from a branch mortgage in 2002 when a further advance of 
£10,000 was provided. Three further advances were made in November 2002 (£10,000), 
October 2003 (£10,000) and July 2004 (£15,000).
It said questions about fees and charges had been passed to the administration team and it 
would provide an update on this as soon as possible and statements for the last ten years on 
the account were requested.
NatWest recognised that it made a mistake when applying an overpayment made by Mr K 
and it should have explained that an ERC would be applied. To put things right it refunded 
the ERC, backdated the refund for interest purposes and sent Mr K a payment of £300 to 
compensate him for the error.
Following the information provided in the response in February 2021, Mr K complained to 
NatWest again. He said he took his mortgage out in branch and was unhappy that the 
records showed this had been moved to NatWests mortgage centre. He didnt agree he took 
the further borrowing that NatWest said he had and asked that this be looked into.
NatWest said it was unable to consider this complaint, it said this had been brought too late. 
This was because it had been made outside of the time limits set by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) which state complaints should be made within six years of the date of the 
event complained about or within three years of the point in time when Mr K realised or 
ought to have realised, he had cause for complaint.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ks complaint and said this service couldnt look into all of his 
concerns. He explained we couldnt consider Mr Ks complaint about the mortgage sub 
accounts being taken out. He agreed this complaint had been brought too late. He thought 
Mr K would have known, or ought to have known he may have cause for complaint about the 
sub accounts from 2008 at the very latest, when NatWest wrote to Mr K with the details of 
each of these.
He said we could look at the concerns Mr K had about the service he received from NatWest 
and whether it had acted fairly when it took steps to refund him the ERC charge. He thought 
it was clear NatWest had made mistakes with the handling of the accounts and this caused 
Mr K distress and inconvenience. But he felt the offer made by NatWest to put things right 
was fair. He sympathised that Mr K has found himself in financial difficulties, but when 
looking at the complaint and the impact of the error with the ERC, he didnt think NatWest 
needed to do anything else.
Mr K disagreed. He said he had complained about the sub accounts and the balance of 
these as far back as 2008 when he experienced financial difficulties previously. He felt this 
should be considered as the point in time when the complaint was raised. He also provided 
information about other complaints and issues he was continuing to have with NatWest in 
relation to his mortgage and the service he was receiving here. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint again. He explained only the previous issues 
considered by NatWest before the complaint was brought to us are in the scope of his 
investigation. He wouldnt comment on any new complaint points.
Our investigator spoke with Mr K on the phone and explained the rules about when we can 
and cant consider complaints. They spoke about the complaint Mr K said he made in 2008 
and Mr K explained that he accepted what was provided to him as information about his sub 
accounts at this time and didnt take his questions any further after this. So it wasnt clear a 
complaint had been raised. There was no indication that Mr K was unhappy with the 
outcome on the part of the complaint we could consider, but Mr K still asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. 
As our investigator has said, there are parts of Mr Ks complaint that this service cannot 
consider. Ill explain first why I think this is the case before addressing the parts of Mr Ks 
complaint we can look at.
We cannot consider every complaint that is brought to our service. The FCA sets out 
rules which include which complaints we can and cant look into. We are bound by these 
rules called the Dispute Resolutions rules (DISP) rules. They can be found in the FCA 
Handbook.
The relevant time limits here are set under DISP 2.8.2 R. This sets out the following 
complaints are brought too late if:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant 
its final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication; or
(2) more than: (a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) (b) three years from 
the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; unless the complainant referred the complaint to 
the respondent or to the Ombudsman within that period and has a written 
acknowledgment or some other record of the complaint having been received; unless
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R
or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Mr K has complained that the sub accounts showing as taken out by him when further 
borrowing was agreed on his mortgage are incorrect. He doesnt agree that he took out 
additional borrowing so soon after the application was made. The first of these sub accounts 
was created in 2002 with three further drawdowns all completed by July 2004. So taking the 
event date, Mr K had six years from each application to bring a complaint about application. 
Mr K says he did complain to NatWest in 2008.
There is no evidence of a complaint made in 2008 to support Mr Ks claim that this was 
made. There is correspondence provided which details the sub accounts  setting out each 
loan account in a table with the interest rate applicable to each. So I think it was clear from 
this point that Mr K was aware of the accounts as hes indicated. 
This letter explains that NatWest was awaiting information and signed documents from Mr K 
to allow it to transfer the interest rate on the accounts. There is no indication of a concern 
raised about the borrowing or the balance of the accounts. So while Mr K may believe he 
questioned this at the time, Im not persuaded he did. I appreciate memories can and do 
fade and we are talking about conversations or potential conversations with NatWest from 
almost 15 years ago. And it was clear Mr K was taking steps to try and change what he was 
paying on the accounts with the interest rate applicable, but I dont think this can be taken as 
evidence that a complaint was raised about the applications and number of accounts he had 
at the time.  
As Ive said, Mr K needed to bring a complaint about the sub accounts either within six years 
of the date of the event complained about or within three years of the time when he knew or 
ought to have known there was cause for complaint. I agree with our investigator that the 
letter sent in 2008 setting out the accounts and their interest rate is a clear point in time 
when NatWest explained the accounts he had. From this point onwards, I think it is fair to 
say Mr K would have known or ought to have known he had cause for complaint if he didnt 
agree with the details of the accounts and the borrowing hed taken out. And any complaint 
about these needed to be made by 2011.  
Mr K hasnt provided anything to explain the delay in the complaint being made or provided 
any reasons that I consider to be exceptional. With this in mind, I agree this part of his 
complaint has been brought too late for this service to consider.
I appreciate Mr K has real concerns about the validity of the additional borrowing taken out 
on his mortgage and hed like NatWest to provide what it can on this front. But this service 
cannot direct it to do anything in relation to the complaint on this matter as we are unable to 
consider the merits of this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above.
What we can consider
Mr K has also complained about the recent administration of his accounts and that NatWest 
has incorrectly applied an ERC. 
NatWest doesnt dispute that its made mistakes when applying the payments Mr K has 
made to his mortgages and it took steps to put this right. So the question for me is whether 
the steps NatWest have taken to do this are fair, or whether it should have gone further.Mr K has said hes been in financial difficulty because of the errors made by NatWest and I 
appreciate hes had issues with its service a number of times in the past. But what Im 
focused on here is the impact of the errors it made when not applying the overpayment 
correctly to all accounts. Mr K called NatWest In June and July 2020 to make an 
overpayment to his mortgage. He wanted to do this following a payment holiday taken due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic and the payment was intended to repay the balance of the interest 
accrued over this time as well as a 10% overpayment on the balance. He received 
conflicting information on the amount he could pay and whether this resulted in an ERC 
being applicable.
Mr K call NatWest on 16 February 2021 to explain that he had concerns about the ERC and 
his payments being applied correctly. NatWest responded on 18 February 2021 with its final 
response. It said it was sorry for providing incorrect information about the ERC. To put things 
right it refunded the charge and backdated the refund for interest purposes and paid Mr K 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience of the matter.
It is clear Mr K has been in contact with NatWest a number of times about his payments and 
overpayments and this resulted in a level of distress and inconvenience. But Ive not seen 
anything to demonstrate to me that the steps taken to put this right are unreasonable or 
unfair. I think NatWest has put Mr K back in the position he would have been in had the error 
not have occurred and the payment made to compensate for the impact of this is inline with 
what Id expect. So I see no reason to ask NatWest to take any further action in relation to 
this point.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman