DRN-3131093
The complaint
Mr D complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance ended.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr D was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with MBFS.
When the agreement came to an end, the car was inspected and collected. Following this, 
MBFS asked Mr D to pay charges for damage.
Mr D disputed the charges. He said when the car was inspected, the agent had told him that 
it was in immaculate condition and that the only damage was a scuff on one of the alloy 
wheels which wasnt chargeable. Mr D said he wasnt aware that the car was going to be 
inspected a second time. He thinks the damage found on the second inspection occurred 
after the car was collected from him.
MBFS investigated the complaint but said the charges had been applied fairly and in line 
with vehicle return standards.
Mr D remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at the inspection report and the images and said he thought the 
damage went beyond acceptable wear and tear and that the charges had been applied 
fairly.
Mr D didnt agree. He said the difference between the two inspection reports was so great 
that the damage must have been caused after the first inspection.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr D must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Ive also had 
regard to MBFSs vehicle returns standards which set out what is considered to be 
acceptable wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. Looking at the damage, Im satisfied 
that it exceeds acceptable wear and tear in accordance with the relevant guidelines and 
vehicle returns standards. So I think the charges have been applied fairly here.
Ive taken into account what Mr D has said about the second inspection and Ive thought 
about whether MBFS acted fairly in carrying this out. On balance, I dont think MBFS has 
done anything wrong. The first inspection is usually a relatively short inspection to check that 
the car is roadworthy. The agreement states that after the first inspection, the car will be 
taken to a  de-fleet centre for a  more detailed inspection. Following the second inspection, 
MBFS advised Mr D of the charges within the 28 day timescale. Taking everything into 
consideration, Im unable to say that MBFS acted unfairly.
Mr D has said that he doesnt think the damage was present when the car was collected 
from him. Theres no record of any post collection collision or incident and, looking at the 
photos, I think its more likely that the damage identified in the second inspection report is 
longstanding, as opposed to recent. I can also see that the damage is across several areas 
of the car, so I think its unlikely that it was caused by an accident after the first inspection. 
Its more likely that the first inspection didnt identify the damage because its wasnt a  
detailed, technical inspection.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman