DRN-3784058
The complaint
Mr H complains about the settlement Highway Insurance Company Limited paid him for the 
market value of his car after a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to 
increase the valuation to take into account his cars modifications. 
What happened
Mr Hs car was declared to be beyond economical repair following an incident. Highway 
offered Mr H £24,978, less the policy excess, in settlement of his claim. But Mr H thought his 
car was worth more due to modifications that he had made to the car. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He looked in the motor 
trade guides we use for cars similar to Mr Hs and found four valuations. The guides didnt 
value non-standard modifications, only factory-fitted optional extras. He discounted the 
outlier valuation and then took an average of the rest. This gave a market value of £26,658. 
So he thought Highways valuation was unfair and it should pay Mr H the difference, adding 
interest from the date of the initial settlement to the date of payment.
Highway asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr H wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. I can see that his 
policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. The Investigator has 
explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but 
look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
From what I can see, Highways valuation of Mr Hs car was based on engineers 
assessments. These included valuations taken from two of the trade guides we use. But 
insufficient detail has been provided so that I cant verify that these were correctly made. So 
I have discounted them. And I think Highway should have looked for valuations in all four of 
the guides, in keeping with our approach. 
The Investigator thought Highways valuation of Mr Hs cars market value was too low and 
that it should be increased. So Ive checked how he came to this conclusion. I can see that 
he looked in the four trade guides we use for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage, 
condition and optional extras as Mr Hs car at the date of its loss. The guides dont provide 
valuations for non-standard after-market modifications, just for factory-fitted options. 
The valuations that the Investigator found had a wide range, so he discounted the outlier and 
then took an average of the remaining three. Im satisfied that this is in keeping with our 
approach. The average was £26,658, which was significantly higher than Highways 
settlement offer, £24,978. 
So I agree that Highways offer wasnt reasonable, and I think Highway should increase its 
settlement to £26,658. As Mr H has been without his money for some time, I think Highway 
should reasonably add interest to the increase over its initial payment from the date of its 
initial payment to the date of settlement.
Putting things right
I require Highway Insurance Company Limited to increase its settlement offer for the loss of 
Mr Hs car to £26,658. It should add interest to the increase at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date of the initial payment to the date of settlement. 
If Highway considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Highway Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman