DRN-1605334
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain that they 
were given unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank PLC. 
What happened
In 1993 Mr and Mrs M invested £10,000 in a PEP in the Selector Income fund (now known 
as the Dynamic Income fund) on the advice of Lloyds. They've maintained the investment 
since then, taking income of around £11,000. The investment had a value of just over £7,000 
at the point the complaint was made to Lloyds in 2019.
The CMC felt that the fund was likely to have been too risky for Mr and Mrs M as it was very 
reliant upon equity performance. Lloyds explained that it had no documentation available 
from the time of the sale. And as there was also very little information available from Mr and 
Mrs M it didn't feel able to fully investigate the complaint or able to conclude that Mr and
Mrs M had been misadvised. 
The complaint was referred to this service but our investigator didn't think it should be 
upheld. He said, in brief;
He was satisfied that Lloyds had provided Mr and Mrs M with advice.
As the investment was still running it seemed likely that Mr and Mrs M would've been 
aware of the risks involved. 
He was unable to determine the circumstances of the advice, as there were no 
documents available.
Without that information, he was unable to safely conclude that the advice had been 
unsuitable.
 
The CMC didn't accept the investigator's view. It said Lloyds had been provided with detailed 
information about Mr and Mrs M's circumstances and that Mr M was a very reliable witness. 
It felt Mr and Mrs M's inexperience of investment at the time of the advice meant the 
recommendation was clearly unsuitable.
As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, the matter's been referred to me 
to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As has been noted, there's very limited information available relating to the advice. And 
despite what the CMC has said in response to the investigator, Mr and Mrs M haven't 
provided much in respect of  their recollections, or documentation - a point which the 
CMC acknowledged earlier in its initial correspondence with Lloyds. We do know that at the time of the advice Mr and Mrs M were aged 41 and 47 respectively 
and both working, with Mr M in a very secure occupation. But beyond this there is very little 
to go on. 
The CMC has pointed to some earlier advice provided to Mr M by Lloyds in 1989/90, when 
he was advised to invest £2,250 in the Environmental fund and £3,000 in the General fund 
(later the UK Growth fund). That advice isn't a subject of this complaint, but the CMC has 
nevertheless suggested that it was likely to have been unsuitable for Mr M, and this indicates 
a pattern of unsuitable advice by Lloyds, of which the 1993 was a further part. 
But without further supporting evidence, I don't think it's reasonable to reach that conclusion. 
In 1989/90 Mr M would've been in his 30s and, as noted, in a secure occupation. An 
alternative, entirely plausible conclusion is that he was an active investor at the time, content 
with the level of risk associated with those funds, and later with the Selector Income fund. 
The point is, we simply don't know. As such, on balance, I don't think that I can reasonably 
or fairly make a finding that the advice given to Mr and Mrs M in 1993 was unsuitable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman