DRN-1902490
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed his three credit card 
accounts without providing a reason. He would like these reinstated and a reason for the 
closures.
 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr S received notification via letter that his three credit card accounts would be 
closing. The letters gave 60 days notice. Mr S says his accounts were closed before this 
notice period elapsed though. 
Mr S has explained that hes had these credit cards for many years, building up his limit 
overtime. Hes always maintained his accounts well, clearing the balances in full and never 
having missed a payment or defaulted with NatWest or any other lender. Hes explained the 
impact the closures have had on him financially, as hed planned to use the credit for 
important matters such as funding his childrens education. Hes also said how the credit 
wouldve come in useful this year, during the Covid-19 pandemic.  
Mr S complained to NatWest about the closures and lack of explanation. He also said he 
was told on a call in June 2019 when he called to change his address, that his credit cards 
would not be closing. 
NatWest responded to Mr Ss complaint explaining that it had closed the credit cards in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. It said it had not taken the decision lightly but 
wasnt able to disclose its reasons behind the decision. NatWest issued a £50 cheque to Mr 
S for the service hed received in June 2019. It hadnt been able to locate the call where Mr 
S was misinformed but gave him the benefit of the doubt. It also said that cheques had been 
sent to Mr S for the credit balances on two of the accounts. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
concluded NatWest had closed the accounts in line with the terms and conditions, giving 60 
days notice. She explained that NatWest has the commercial discretion to close accounts 
and doesnt have to give a reason for doing so. 
Mr S disagreed. He pointed to Section 98A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) which 
says that a bank must serve its customer notice, give a reason for the closure and this 
reason must be objectively justified. He said NatWest allowed him to keep his current 
account open following Know Your Customer checks but didnt offer this option for his credit 
cards. 
Because Mr S disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
Credit card closure 
I appreciate why Mr S is so unhappy with NatWest's decision to close his credit card 
accounts and Im sorry to hear the impact this has had on him. However, this doesnt mean I 
can say NatWest made an error when closing the accounts. Just like Mr S can choose to 
close his account at any time, NatWest has this ability too. This is because the terms and 
conditions of the account allow this.
Under the terms, NatWest has to give notice and I can see it did this in May 2019. Mr S said 
he believed his accounts were closed sooner than the 60 days given in the letter. However, 
the evidence NatWest has provided shows that two of the accounts were closed on 16 
August 2019 and the other was closed on 22 July 2019. Therefore, both complied with the 
notice period.
Mr S said that Section 98A means NatWest should give him a reason for the closure of his
accounts and that this reason should be objectively justified. Section 98A of the CCA says 
the following:
(3)Where a regulated open-end consumer credit agreement, other than an excluded 
agreement, provides for termination of the agreement by the creditor
(a)the termination must be by notice served on the debtor, and 
(b)the termination may not take effect until after the end of the period of two months, 
or such longer period as the agreement may provide, beginning with the day after the 
day on which notice is served.
(4)Where a regulated open-end consumer credit agreement, other than an excluded 
agreement, provides for termination or suspension by the creditor of the debtor's right to 
draw on credit
(a)to terminate or suspend the right to draw on credit the creditor must serve a notice 
on the debtor before the termination or suspension or, if that is not practicable, 
immediately afterwards,
(b)the notice must give reasons for the termination or suspension, and
(c)the reasons must be objectively justified.
Whilst I appreciate what Mr S has said, it is Section 98A(3) that applies in his case. This 
refers to situations where a credit agreement is terminated  which is what happened to Mr 
S. In these situations, the credit provider has to give two months notice before closing the 
account. NatWest complied with this.
Section 98A(4) deals with situations where there is a termination or suspension of 
someones ability to draw on credit. A credit provider can do this without providing two 
months notice and youll see that it can tell someone after it has done so. If it does this 
though, it must give a reason and this reason must be objectively justified.
In Mr Ss case NatWest gave him two months notice of the termination and within those two
months, he was still permitted to use his accounts  so his ability to draw on credit hadnt
been removed without notice. This means Section 94A(3) applies and under the CCA, 
NatWest doesnt have to give Mr S a reason for the closure. Its therefore not appropriate for 
me to require it to do so.I will say that I have reviewed the reasons for the closure, and I dont think NatWest has 
treated Mr S unfairly in the action its taken. That is not to say I think Mr S has done anything 
wrong in his dealings with NatWest. I understand hes had a long-standing relationship with 
the bank and has always maintained his accounts well. But sometimes large businesses 
such as NatWest make commercial decisions of this nature. And whilst this can feel unfair, it 
is something it is permitted to do. Of course, these decisions must not be discriminatory in 
anyway, but Ive not seen anything to suggest that is the case here. It is ultimately a 
businesss decision to offer credit to someone. 
Mr S has said that NatWest allowed him to keep his current account, but not the credit cards. 
But this doesnt impact the outcome of this complaint. Im satisfied NatWest closed Mr Ss 
credit card accounts correctly, in line with the terms and conditions and relevant legislation. 
Im therefore not in a position to ask it to reinstate Mr Ss accounts or provide him with a 
reason for the closure.
Customer service 
Mr S says he was misinformed by NatWest and told his accounts would remain open. 
NatWest hasnt been able to locate any calls where this information was given, and so it is 
difficult for me to make a finding of fact on this matter. NatWest sent Mr S a cheque for £50 
to cover any inconvenience. Mr S has said he didnt want this. Given he was sent the correct 
notice in writing, I think this adequately compensates him if any incorrect information was 
given to him in error.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against National Westminster Bank 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman