DRN-4158781
The complaint
Mr F complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance
unfairly handled his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1975 (section 75) in
respect of poor quality and faulty kitchen units.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr F entered into a contract with a retailer for the supply and installation of a
new kitchen. The supply of the kitchen units was financed via fixed sum loan with Novuna.
Novuna released the funds for the kitchen units to the retailer in September 2021 having
received the satisfaction note signed by Mr F.
The events that then followed are well known to both parties and I am not intending to set
them out in detail here. But in summary, there were repeated problems with items missing,
doors and drawer fronts being scratched or of poor quality and of other items being
damaged due to poor fitting and requiring replacement. Mr F made numerous complaints to
the retailer, and which led to various items having to be re-ordered.
Due to the delays in fitting the kitchen, Mr F contacted Novuna in December 2021 who
opened a section 75 claim for him. It also spoke with the retailer who agreed to rectify the
problems. Unfortunately, issues continued to arise. Novuna asked Mr F if he wanted to reject
the kitchen, but he declined. Mr F said he wanted the problems with the kitchen put right.
The retailer then offered Mr F £1,500 as compensation for the kitchen units and a credit for
the fitting costs of £1,500. Novuna said that although it accepted Mr Fs section 75 claim, it
wasnt going to ask the retailer to do more in respect of compensation. It said that the credit
agreement was for supply only and so the problems Mr F had had with the kitchen fitting
werent something it could take into account.
Mr F disagreed with Novunas decision. He said he should receive the £3,000 as 
compensation in total, rather than £1,500 compensation and £1,500 as credit for the fitters
due to the mess that had been created through the supply agreement.
Novuna reviewed the section 75 claim and upheld Mr Fs complaint on the basis that it had
taken too long to deal with his claim. Novuna offered Mr F £100 compensation for the delay,
but it did not alter the decision that the retailer has already offered £1,500 compensation and
it wasnt going to ask it to do more.
Mr F disagreed with Novunas decision and complained to this service. Our investigator
didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said she thought Novuna had
dealt with Mr Fs section 75 claim fairly and had done all that it would be expected to do on
the information it had received. If issues with the kitchen were still outstanding, then our
investigator said she would expect Novuna to discuss that with Mr F.
Mr F disagreed with our investigators view. He queried Novunas statement that it hadnt
financed the customers installation saying that it had and that was why he signed the
credit agreement. He said that he hadnt known until late in the process that he could reject
the kitchen and by then it had been fitted so wasnt a workable solution. Mr F said Novuna
had accepted it had made errors and offered compensation so it couldnt have acted fairly.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
Section 75 gives a consumer, in certain circumstances, equal right to claim a refund
against the supplier of goods or services and the provider of credit if there has been a
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
Here, Mr F entered into a fixed sum loan with Novuna for the new kitchen. Mr F said that
the agreement was for both the supply and installation but looking at the sales invoice
and credit agreement, I disagreed.
The sales invoice set out the cost of the kitchen as £7,599.44 and said this amount
did not include fitting and quoted an estimated cost for the fitting of £1,535. I understood that 
later there had been an adjustment to the original kitchen plans which had increased the 
cost very slightly. The credit agreement showed the cost of the kitchen as £7,688.44. So, I 
was satisfied that the credit agreement had only been for the supply of the kitchen units and 
had not included the cost for the fitting. The fitting of the units was a separate matter. And 
what this meant was that under section 75, Novuna had no liability for any of the problems 
that had arisen from the poor fitting. It only had responsibility for the kitchen units which were 
delivered and had been found to be faulty or of poor quality when they arrived at Mr Fs 
home.
I didnt think Novuna had disagreed that there had been a breach of contract here as it had 
accepted that there were units which werent of satisfactory quality (as per the Consumer
Credit Act 2015) when they had been supplied to Mr F. I also thought that Novuna had 
agreed that Mr F met the requirements of a section 75 claim. My role was therefore to decide 
whether Novuna had handled Mr F's claim fairly and reasonably.
Id seen that Novuna had contacted the retailer, and the retailer had made a number of 
attempts to rectify the matter. This was what I would have expected to see happen as the 
retailer has the right to try and put things right first. This meant I wouldnt have expected 
Novuna to have advised Mr F that he could reject the kitchen units straight away and that 
this option had been fairly raised with him after the retailer had attempted but failed to put 
things right.
Id seen that the retailer had paid Mr F £1,500 compensation for the faulty units. Novuna said
it wasnt going to ask it to do more. I thought on the evidence I had seen that this was fair.
The difficulty was that not only were the units defective or of poor quality, but some which
Had been of satisfactory quality were then damaged by the fitters. Id seen Mr F had said
that the finishing has been abysmal and thats a major part of the problem but, as set
out above, Novuna wasnt liable for that.
When goods arent of a satisfactory quality then there are potential suitable remedies. Mr
F said he didnt wish to now reject the kitchen, so a further option was for compensation
to be paid to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused and for the spoilt enjoyment of
those items. I think Novuna has acted fairly when it considered the £1,500 paid to Mr F had 
been appropriate and fair in the circumstances. The evidence provided by Mr F didnt clearly
set out which parts of the kitchen werent of satisfactory quality, and which had become
defective due to the way they had treated when being fitted. And it was for Mr F to provide
evidence for his claim under section 75.
Mr F had raised that Novuna had accepted it hadnt dealt fairly with his claim and that wascorrect. Novuna had accepted that it should have acted to resolve his claim sooner and for 
this delay it had offered Mr F £100 compensation. I thought that amount was fair since it 
covered only Novunas handling of the section 75 claim and not the retailers service. I dont 
think that even if Novuna had resolved this claim earlier, this would have meant Mr F 
receiving a larger amount of compensation in respect of that section 75 claim.
So, while I appreciated this would be of disappointment to Mr F, for the reasons set out 
above I wasnt intending to uphold his complaint. I thought Novuna had acted fairly when it 
paid Mr F £100 compensation for its handling of his claim and also in finding that the retailer 
had reasonably compensated him for the breach of contract in the supplying of the new
kitchen.
Mr F disagrees with my provisional view. He says that he had understood Novuna was only 
responsible for the supply of the kitchen units and not for issues arising from the fitting. He 
says that every outward facing panel, door and drawer front was of poor quality which 
equated to 27 different pieces of the kitchen units.
Mr F said that two cabinets had been sent of the wrong size and had had to be cut to size on 
site in order for them to fit. He said some items werent supplied for over three months and 
that due to supply issues the retailer had subcontracted the supply to two other companies 
which had provided some of the order. He says the retailer then had cut some of these items 
to a different size and that some of the kitchen doors had a different finish.
Mr F says the project has now taken two years and is still not complete. He says he has tried 
to raise things with Novuna but got no response. He says that the additional £1,500 he was 
seeking as compensation is fair.
Mr F supplied a number of photos of the kitchen.
Novuna hasnt asked me to look again at any part of my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the evidence and the conclusions I reached against the representations made 
by Mr F after he had received my provisional decision. But, although I know this will be of 
disappointment to Mr F, I havent changed my view.
This is because, as set out above, I can only consider the actions of Novuna and whether it 
had handled Mr Fs section 75 claim fairly. Here, there had been issues with both the supply 
and the installation of the kitchen but any problems arising from the fitting werent the 
responsibility of Novuna. And while Mr F says he has been clear about those parts of the 
kitchen that had been supplied with faults and those that had been the subject of poor fitting, 
Im afraid I disagree.
Looking again at the email correspondence between Mr F and Novuna I can see that there 
were doors that appear to have been acceptable on delivery but later, after installation, were 
found to be scratched. And I dont think it can be assumed any scratches were present on 
delivery unless there was evidence to corroborate that. Mr F has also raised that the drawers 
and doors are not in alignment but, again, I dont think that can necessarily be said to be the 
result of defective parts rather than defective fitting. I also dont know whether the cutting of 
cabinets by the retailer were to comply with the supply contract or to assist the fitter. So, looking at the information provided I still think, despite Mr Fs representations, that it is 
unclear which issues with the kitchen were due solely to faulty/poor quality units and which 
were due to poor installation. I dont have sufficient information to be able to reasonably 
accept Mr Fs assertion that all the outward facing parts of the kitchen units had been 
supplied with defects.
Novuna has accepted there was a breach of contract due to the quality of the units and I 
think this would include that there was a difference in finishes for some of the units. It also 
isnt disputed that those faulty units took time to have replacements provided and that there 
were then ongoing issues with those replacements. These issues and the delays were 
reflected in the £1,500 compensation which Novuna had considered to be a fair amount in 
the circumstances. I think Novuna had acted fairly when taking that view in light of the 
evidence and information it had received.
So, Im not going to ask Novuna to increase the compensation from £1,500 to £3,000 as 
requested by Mr F. As set out above, I still think that Novuna acted fairly in its approach to 
the compensation offered for the defective units by the retailer. In regard to the delays in 
obtaining the units, again, I think this was reflected in the £1,500 compensation. I think its 
reasonable to also recognise that the need to reorder some items may have arisen from the 
problems with the poor fitting.
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons give, and although I appreciate this will disappoint Mr F, Im not upholding 
his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman