DRN-3900331
The complaint
Mr R complains that Halifax, trading as St Andrews Insurance Plc, didnt make him aware it 
was insuring his home and contents and he said he was paying too much for the policy. He 
also complains that he wasnt made aware that his insurance premiums were included within 
his mortgage repayments and so he has been unfairly charged interest on these.
  
What happened
Mr R took out home insurance with St Andrews in 2008 when his mortgage began, but said 
he was unaware of this or that his mortgage payments included a charge for the policy. St 
Andrews sent annual renewal documents, but Mr R said he didnt think it applied to him. St 
Andrews also said the policy was set out on Mr Rs mortgage statement and so he ought to 
have been aware of its existence. But Mr R said he didnt read the mortgage statements.
In May 2021 St Andrews wrote to Mr R that his insurance premium wouldnt be added to his 
mortgage balance any more, and it would arrange a different way for him to pay if he wanted 
to continue the policy. But Mr R cancelled and complained to St Andrews.
Mr R said he first became aware of the policy when St Andrews called him in 2021 asking to 
amend his payment details. Mr R acknowledged hed ignored two letters from St Andrews 
about this. He said he hadnt got home insurance with any other insurer, but wouldnt have 
required contents cover and would have shopped around for a building policy had he known 
how expensive St Andrews policy was.
St Andrews said it didnt have a record of what was discussed with Mr R when the policy 
started, but it sent him details and of the cooling off period. It said it was clear that although 
building insurance was compulsory, it didnt have to be with St Andrews. It said Mr R was 
sent 12 annual renewal packs with details of premium and cover and mortgage statements 
setting out the insurance premium. St Andrews said it had correctly charged Mr R for the 
policy according to its assessment of the risk and had sent him a quote at each renewal.
St Andrews said that Mr Rs complaint about the interest charged on his monthly insurance 
premiums was brought out of time. It said that a statement sent to Mr R in 2013 would have 
alerted him to the interest charged on his premiums and should have given him cause to 
complain had he wished to at the time, but his complaint was brought too late. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said the mortgage application, 
mortgage offer and welcome pack provided Mr R information about his insurance policy and 
this was followed by annual information detailing the policy and cost. But she said premiums 
were above St Andrews guidelines and it was unfair to charge interest at the mortgage rate 
as Mr R wouldnt have paid this to another insurer. The investigator said the 2013 statement 
was insufficiently clear for Mr R to have been reasonably aware he had cause for complaint.
The investigator recommended St Andrews refund the difference in what Mr R paid for the 
policy above the target price from 2008 to 2018, and from 2018 to 2021 with interest. And 
reimburse the interest paid for the life of the policy, and pay Mr R £150 compensation. 
St Andrews disagreed with the investigator, saying Mr R was provided with information 
about his insurance and the link to his mortgage. St Andrews said the statement of March 
2013 made it clear to Mr R that he would pay interest on his insurance instalments at the 
mortgage rate and so the interest shouldnt be refunded to him. It gave examples of other 
decisions from our service which it said supported this approach. St Andrews agreed to pay 
the compensation of £150.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold this complaint and for similar reasons to those given by the 
investigator. I have reached this decision on the individual merits of this complaint, having 
considered the circumstances of Mr Rs insurance policy and response to the information he 
was sent. 
Mr R said he was unaware of his home insurance policy with St Andrews. Ive seen a copy 
of Halifaxs mortgage offer to Mr R from April 2008. This states that he must have buildings 
insurance, but this need not be with Halifax. It sets out his monthly payment and states, 
Insurance you have chosen to take out through Halifax  contents insurance and Life cover. 
The mortgage application completed at Halifaxs branch records, Existing Insurance Cover 
Discussed Yes. I think for this reason and the renewal documents sent to Mr R each year, 
it ought to have been clear to him that he had taken out insurance cover with St Andrews 
from when his mortgage started.
St Andrews records show there was no interaction from Mr R throughout the life of his 
insurance policy, until March 2021 when he complained. Part of his complaint was that the 
home insurance premiums were extortionate. The premium an insurer charges is largely 
based on an assessment of the likelihood of a customer making a claim and how much this 
is likely to cost. A wide range of factors are considered by underwriters, and each insurer will 
have its own approach and appetite for taking on risk. 
Its not our role to tell an insurer how to price their policies or what factors they should 
consider when calculating a risk. However, we will look to see that an insurer is applying a 
fair and consistent approach to policyholders in similar circumstances. And so I have 
considered whether or not St Andrews has acted within its own guidelines.
To do this we have looked at the loadings table and breakdown of risk factors that St 
Andrews has provided us together with an explanation of its approach to pricing. This is 
commercially confidential information which we will not share, however we have seen that St 
Andrews has charged Mr R above its target price. I agree with the investigators assessment 
that Mr R has been charged unfairly for his insurance policy and I will require St Andrews to 
reimburse Mr R with interest. The addition of interest to our award is important as Mr R has 
lost the use of the money he has paid for the unfair premiums.  
Mr R said it was unfair of St Andrews to charge and add interest to his mortgage in respect 
of his insurance policy. St Andrews said the complaint was brought outside of the time limit 
set for our service to consider complaints by the Financial Conduct Authority.
In 2013 Halifax issued a new style mortgage statement. It said this confirmed that Mr R held 
mortgage-linked insurance and his payment included a monthly contribution towards the 
insurance premium. And further that any premiums that remain unpaid will attract interest. 
The statement says: As you have mortgage linked insurance, your total monthly payment includes the following: 
Monthly Mortgage Payment £319.23 Monthly Buildings Insurance Premium £44.99 Total 
Monthly Payment £364.22. Any insurance premiums added to your mortgage that remain 
unpaid are included in the amount you owe and you will be charged interest on these. 
The latter sentence refers to unpaid premiums and so I think a policyholder such as Mr R 
that paid their premiums throughout the life of the policy might reasonably think this didnt 
apply to them. I havent seen anything that would have alerted Mr R to the benefit of paying 
his premiums annually so as to escape the addition of mortgage interest onto his monthly 
premiums. And so I dont think Mr Rs complaint on this point is time barred as St Andrews 
have suggested. However, I think that any redress should start from the policy renewal in 
2013 when the initial business discount had been recouped and the refund should be for 
premiums in excess of the previous three-year fixed policy price. 
St Andrews said that the insurance position is clear from the mortgage conditions, and I can 
see a reference to the effect of monthly insurance payments on the mortgage from section 
19 of the Information about your mortgage booklet. However, I think this could have been 
more prominent and the position isnt clear from the insurance information provided by St 
Andrews.
  
I think it was St Andrews responsibility to explain to policyholders that paying insurance 
premiums monthly would mean interest would be added to the capital balance of their 
mortgage at the mortgage rate of interest. It hasnt given a proper explanation of this to Mr R 
and so this aspect of his complaint is upheld.
In conclusion, although I think Mr R ought reasonably to have been aware of his policy, he 
hadnt engaged with St Andrews for many years and so was unlikely to have considered or 
compared the cost of his policy at each renewal. 
The investigator recommended that St Andrews pay Mr R compensation of £150 for the 
inconvenience of having to pay in excess of what he ought to have paid on his premiums 
and interest. St Andrews agreed to this, and I think the recommended compensation is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require St Andrews Insurance Plc to pay the following to Mr R.
The difference in what he paid for the policy from 2013 until 2015, against the initial 
fixed price allowing for inflation in line with the consumer price index. 
The difference in what he paid for the policy above the target price in place at the 
time, from 2015 until 2021. 
Add simple interest to the refund of 8%. 
The interest paid at the mortgage rate each month from the date of inception to the 
date the policy ended, month on month.
Add 8% per year on each interest payment from the date paid to the date of 
settlement.
£150 compensation for the impact the poor service has had upon him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Andrew FraserOmbudsman