DRN-4222423
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Sainsburys Bank Plc dealt with an account security issue.
What happened
Mr P says in July 2022 he had fraud concerns about his credit card account. He says his 
password was reset but Sainsburys recorded it incorrectly which meant he failed its security 
process. Mr P says he was unaware of his account balance and borrowed money to make 
his repayment. He says he was required to obtain certified identity documents which 
required him to take time off work. Mr P also says he was caused inconvenience whilst on 
holiday and would like an appropriate level of compensation.
Sainsburys accepts it made a mistake with the password and that it ought to have dealt with 
Mr Ps complaint in August 2022 not December 2022. It says it paid £150 compensation and 
says its Mr Ps responsibility to manage his account. It also says he ought to have been 
aware of the account spending and that he still had account access.
Mr P brought his complaint to us, and our investigator upheld it and recommended 
Sainsburys pay £250 compensation. The investigator thought Mr P made about five 
telephone calls to Sainsburys and was required to obtain certified identity documents which 
would have caused significant inconvenience.
Sainsburys doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint.
The only real issue for me to decide is the compensation level. There is no dispute that 
Sainsburys made a mistake in recording the password incorrectly which resulted in account 
use problems and in Mr P making a number of telephone calls to try and resolve the 
position. I can also see that Mr P was required to provide identity documents which meant 
he took time off work and travelled to his bank to obtain them.
So, I have no doubt Mr P was caused a fairly significant level of distress and inconvenience. 
The problems continued for most of August 2022 until they were resolved, and I accept that 
for part of that time Mr P was on holiday unable to use his credit card account. I also think it 
would have taken some time to arrange and obtain certified identity documents from a bank.
I dont think the £150 compensation paid fairly reflects the level of mistake or inconvenience 
and distress caused. I agree with the investigator that £250 is appropriate here for the 
reasons I have explained and that it took until December 2022 for Sainsburys to provide an 
explanation. Although complaint handling is not a regulated activity, I can see that 
Sainsburys accepts it ought to have dealt with the complaint in August 2022 and provided 
Mr P with its explanation for what took place.
I accept that this was Mr Ps account and his responsibility to manage it. And I think Mr P 
ought reasonably to have known about his spending in overall terms. But Im satisfied overall 
this was Sainsburys mistake that took some time to sort out with a number of calls as well 
as a visit by Mr P to his own bank. For those reasons I think Sainsburys should pay a further 
£100 compensation.
Putting things right
Sainsburys should pay a further £100 compensation making a total of £250.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay Mr P a 
further £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman