DRN-3891487
The complaint
Miss Ps complaint about HL Partnership Limited (HLP) relates to the advice she received 
when she applied for, and obtained, a mortgage through them.
What happened
In February 2020, Miss P applied for a mortgage through HLP. The adviser recommended a 
two-year fixed rate mortgage which Miss P agreed to. 
Miss P exchanged contracts on the purchase of her property in March 2020, but due to the 
effects of the Covid pandemic on businesses, she was unable to complete on the purchase 
until June 2020.
Miss P says that the adviser said he would contact her before the end of the fixed rate period 
to discuss matters further but that he failed to do so. She argues that she has not had the 
benefit of the fixed rate for the full two years because the adviser failed to set up the 
mortgage correctly.
HLP have said that there is no evidence within its papers to show that the adviser promised 
to contact Miss P before the end of the two-year fixed rate period. It said that even if that had 
been promised there was no obligation on it to do so, as the advice given in March 2020 was 
stand-alone advice and did not impose a duty on it, as a mortgage intermediary, to provide 
ongoing servicing or to perform a review of the mortgage arrangements. 
Further, HLP said that the delay in Miss P completing the mortgage was not as a result of 
anything it did or didnt do. It argued the revised mortgage offer made clear that the end date 
of the fixed period had remained unchanged and this was made clear to Miss P.
Miss P was unhappy with HLPs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. 
Our investigator thought that HLP hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the 
complaint fairly. 
Miss P didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
What the documentary evidence provided by HLP shows is that on 12 February 2020 its 
adviser recommended a two-year fixed rate mortgage for Miss P and a mortgage illustration 
was emailed to her that day, showing the rate would be fixed until 31 March 2022. 
Also issued to Miss P that day, was a mortgage suitability letter setting out the fixed rate and 
its expiry date. Miss P was evidently happy with the recommended product and submitted an 
application to the lender that day. That resulted in a mortgage offer being issued on 14 
February 2020 to Miss P and her solicitors confirming, amongst other things, the rate and 
expiry date of the fixed rate period.
An addendum letter was issued to Miss P on 9 June 2020 confirming the loan amount had 
been reduced following her request for the same. A revised mortgage offer was also issued 
to Miss P that day by the lender, and this confirmed the reduced loan amount and that the 
fixed rate period remained until the 31 March 2022. 
These documents make it very plain that Miss P would have known when the fixed rate 
period came to an end. In addition to this, the addendum letter very clearly states that, 
Having discussed the application further with you and your father, we have been 
asked to reduce the borrowing from £X to £Y based on the same product. 
This shows that although there was a change to the amount to be borrowed the product 
being taken out was not changing. There is no mention of the fixed rate period being 
changed or of a change being requested. Had the adviser therefore chosen the wrong 
product for Miss P, as she suggests, then she could have brought that to his attention, but 
she did not. It is therefore more likely than not that she did not ask the adviser to change the 
fixed rate period as she allowed the mortgage to proceed on the basis that the fixed rate 
period wasnt changed.
Ive considered Miss Ps view that the adviser said he would get back in touch with her prior 
to the fixed rate ending, but I think she must be mistaken. If he had promised that, then I 
would have expected to see some evidence of that promise in HLPs notes, but there is 
none. I do therefore think it unlikely that this promise was made. 
Miss P was clearly informed of the duration and expiration date for the fixed rate period. It is 
unfortunate that Miss P was unable to complete upon her purchase until June but that was 
not the fault of HLP.
So, although Miss P will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say HLP has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Jonathan WillisOmbudsman