DRN-3165882
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC applied an early repayment charge (ERC) when 
he re-mortgaged, despite saying it wouldnt do so. He asks for compensation.
What happened
Mr K had a buy to let mortgage with Barclays. He wanted to switch to a residential mortgage, 
which Barclays agreed. Barclays told Mr K it would refund the ERC due on repayment of the 
buy to let mortgage if the switch happened within 90 days of the date his product was due to 
expire. 
Mr K did the switch. However he then saw there was an outstanding balance on his buy to 
let account. Barclays said this was the ERC. Barclays said the ERC was correctly applied as 
Mr K hadnt ported the product. Mr K complained. Barclays paid £200 compensation for 
giving Mr K incorrect information suggesting the ERC would be refunded. After the complaint 
came to us Barclays offered to waive the ERC and pay another £150 for the time it had 
taken to sort this matter out.
Our investigator said while Barclays made an error and this caused Mr K worry and distress, 
the compensation offered was fair and reasonable. 
Mr K didnt agree, saying this amount of compensation didnt take account of what hed been 
through. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K and his broker checked with Barclays several times whether hed have to pay the ERC 
when he repaid his buy to let mortgage. Barclays said the ERC would be refunded if Mr K 
switched to a residential mortgage within 90 days of the product expiration date. 
The information Barclays gave Mr K and his broker was incorrect. Mr K wasnt porting his 
product  this wasnt possible as it was a buy to let product and Mr K was taking out a 
residential mortgage  and so the ERC was payable. 
Mr K went ahead with the switch, which completed in late February 2021.Barclays applied 
an ERC of about £8,000. It didnt refund the ERC as Mr K expected. 
Mr K first complained on 23 February 2021. He raised the issue again in March and in April. 
In early April 2021 Barclays accepted Mr K had been given incorrect information by several 
members of staff and offered £200 for this. At the end of April Barclays waived the ERC. It 
offered another £150 for the time taken to sort out this matter.
I must be clear here that the error wasnt that Barclays applied the ERC. The error was that 
Barclays told Mr K it would refund the ERC. So I need to consider what would have 
happened if Barclays hadnt made an error. And what it should do to put matters right.
Mr Ks mortgage product was due to expire on 30 April 2021. Barclays said Mr K couldnt 
have ported his buy to let product to his residential mortgage. So, if he switched to a 
residential mortgage before 30 April 2021 hed have had to pay the ERC.
Ordinarily, Id have said if Mr K had been told hed have to pay an ERC, hed have waited 
until his product expired to avoid it. However, that might not have been the case here.
It seems Mr K was also changing the ownership of the property, which would usually mean 
paying stamp duty. He wanted to complete this before the stamp duty holiday ended on 31 
March 2021. 
If Barclays had given Mr K correct information about the ERC (that it would be payable if he 
repaid his buy to let mortgage before the end of April 2021) Mr K would have had to make a 
choice. Hed have had to decide whether to switch before 31 March and pay the ERC. Or 
wait until after the product expired and pay stamp duty. In fact, Mr K might have benefitted 
from the extension to the stamp duty holiday  although he wouldnt have known this until it 
was announced in March 2021.
Mr K and his broker checked with Barclays several times that he wouldnt have to pay the 
ERC. Theres no doubt this was a concern for Mr K. Whats not clear though is what would 
have happened if Mr K had been given correct information. I dont know if Mr K would have 
decided to go ahead and switch his mortgage in early 2021, or if hed have waited until the 
product expired and taken the risk of paying stamp duty. 
So what I must bear in mind is that the ERC was payable, and couldnt have been avoided 
by porting. And Mr K might have gone ahead even if hed known this. 
However, Barclays didnt give Mr K correct information. He was told several times the ERC 
would be refunded, and went ahead with his mortgage switch on this basis. Mr K would have 
been upset to find out an ERC of about £8,000 was payable after hed repaid the mortgage. 
This wasnt something hed budgeted for. 
Ive taken into account what Mr K has said about how this affected him. Mr K says he didnt 
have funds to pay the ERC, and being told it had to be paid caused extreme stress over six 
weeks. Hes described how this affected his health. I do appreciate that this caused Mr K 
considerable distress. I think it took Barclays too long to recognise its error and the effect 
this had on Mr K. But I must also take into account that in addition to £350 compensation, 
Barclays refunded the ERC of about £8,000 because of the incorrect information it had given 
to Mr K. I think in the circumstances, for the error made and the effect this had, this is fair 
and reasonable.  
My final decision
My decision is that in addition to refunding the early repayment charge paid by Mr K, 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £350 to Mr K as it offered to do (less any amounts it has 
already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Ruth StevensonOmbudsman