DRN-3851215
The complaint
N, a limited company, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as 
Cashplus Bank wont refund payments that it didnt make.
What happened
The director of N contacted Cashplus Bank to dispute a number of payments from its 
account which started in April 2022. He was unhappy to be told that the merchant involved 
had a subscription from Ns account. The director says he tried to access the websites 
involved to raise the issue with the merchant as Cashplus Bank had asked but that there 
were no matching details.
Cashplus Bank said it wouldnt be refunding this money and that it had declined Ns fraud 
claim. A member of its fraud team had called the merchant and it had been confirmed that it 
had a record of a subscription matching the details for N. And it told Cashplus Bank the two 
website names that were involved. It added that the merchant had said that there were 
matching profiles, and it should be possible to access these with a forgot your password 
option. The easiest way to cancel a subscription was to cancel the card. This had already 
been done for N and as there had been no further payments it considered the matter to be 
resolved.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and that all the payments other 
than the first for £0.99 be refunded with eight per cent simple interest per annum. There was 
no explanation of how the merchant obtained Ns details other than from N. And this wasnt a 
typical pattern of fraud by an unknown third party. So, she thought that N had authorised the 
first payment. But as the further payments were taken under a continuous payment authority 
(CPA) shed have expected the merchant to be able to show that N had positively agreed to 
the amounts and frequencies of payments. And that the key parts of the CPA had been 
displayed clearly and not just hidden say in the terms and conditions. This was in line with 
guidance originally issued by the former Office of Fair Trading but since endorsed by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. Cashplus Bank didnt have any evidence to support whether the 
merchant had followed this.
She subsequently confirmed with Cashplus Bank that the total amount of payments involved 
including the one for £0.99 was £541.49. N didnt have any further comments to make about 
the proposed resolution.
Cashplus Bank didnt agree and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It maintained that it had 
considered a fraud claim for N. And that N had a relationship with the merchant as wed 
accepted too, and this fraud claim was declined. The issue of the CPA would be a dispute 
and it could have provided N with guidance about raising that as the basis of the claim. This 
could no longer be done because the timescales for a chargeback had expired. It said that it 
was currently locating the call with the merchant and would send this as soon as available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that our investigator first asked Cashplus Bank in October 2022 for a recording of the 
call its fraud department had with the merchant. She further mentioned when she issued her 
view that shed accepted there was a record of N at the merchant based on call notes. But 
again, shed said that this was insufficient to confirm that a CPA had been agreed. 
The issue here is whether N authorised all these payments. I need to take into account the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this complaint. These state that a 
payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its not enough for it to be 
authenticated, say with card details. And if they werent authorised N wouldnt generally be 
responsible for them especially as this is a distance contract.
Our investigator has accepted that based on the fraud notes the merchant had some details 
that corresponded to N. It is unclear what these were. And she took the view that as there 
was no evidence of other attempted payments or of third-party fraud that these most likely 
came from N. The director of N hasnt disagreed with the conclusions of her assessment. 
And I wont be going behind that here. I note though from Ns bank statement that the same 
reference number for payments seemed to be associated with two different payee names. 
And from the case notes from Cashplus Bank that the trading names as far as the websites 
were concerned were also different again. Im not clear which merchant the fraud team 
spoke to. But as far as the director of N is concerned I can see the potential for confusion 
when many different names are involved. And so, I dont see that this undermines his 
reliability as far as what he says about not agreeing to any subscription.
Reference has already been made to relevant consideration as far as a CPA is concerned. 
Even if I had the call recording, if that wasnt supported by some documentation showing 
that N had clearly consented to ongoing payments I dont know that it would necessarily 
have resolved things. In any event Cashplus Bank has had ample time to provide any 
evidence, might reasonably have been expected to have this when it dealt with the claim and 
has since been reminded of its potential importance.
Im not satisfied on the evidence that N consented to a CPA and so authorised the payments 
following that for £0.99.
I appreciate that there may have been the opportunity to raise a chargeback. But it was 
always clear that N was denying any subscription. And the outcome of the issue of 
authorisation isnt one bound by chargeback rules or those timescales. How Cashplus Bank 
categorised and investigated the case was a matter for it. But in any event I have made a 
finding on authorisation having considered what is most likely.
The payments after the one for £0.99 come to a total of £540.50 (£541.49 less £0.99). These 
should be refunded to N with simple interest of eight percent per annum as I find Cashplus 
Bank cant reasonably hold N responsible for them.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited trading as Cashplus Bank to
1) Refund the payments totalling £540.50 to N.2) Pay N simple interest of eight per cent per annum on each of those payments from 
the date it was debited to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman