DRN-4072326
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the quality of his car, which was financed by Moneybarn Limited.
What happened
In November 2022, Mr H entered into a finance agreement with Moneybarn, for a used car. 
He later contacted Moneybarn to say he was having a number of issues with it. These 
included:
it had no oil;
the tyres were bald;
the tracking wasnt working properly; and
there was a fault with the computer.
Mr H doesnt feel the car should have passed its MOT. He also says hed been told the car 
had been serviced, but it hadnt. Mr H has explained the car has now broken down, and isnt 
driveable.
Mr H complained to our service, and one of our investigators looked into what happened. 
Having done so, she was satisfied that the car was faulty. This was because an independent 
inspection, carried out in January 2023, reported problems related to three glow plug circuits, 
and insufficient voltage. The report also said the car wasnt roadworthy, because of the worn 
tyres.
So, our investigator then went on to think about whether the car had been of satisfactory 
quality, when it was supplied. She noted that the car was eleven years old, and had 113,000 
miles on the clock when it was supplied. So, it would be reasonable to expect that parts of 
the car would have suffered wear and tear, and would likely need maintenance/repair earlier 
than a less road-worn car. 
By the time of the inspection report, the car had a reported mileage of 118,223  meaning Mr 
H had been able to drive it for over 5,000 miles, before the problems appeared. The report 
noted that this was sufficient mileage to wear down the tyres, such that theyd need 
replacing.
The car had also passed its MOT in October 2022, shortly before it was supplied. So, the 
tyres met the safety requirements at that time
Further, the report said that the fault codes would typically be related to a faulty glow plug 
module. This can happen suddenly, and theres no evidence it was present at the point of 
supply.
Overall, our investigator felt the issues were caused by reasonable wear and tear. This 
meant she thought the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Finally, she thought about what Mr H said about the car not being serviced before it was 
supplied. But on balance, she didnt think there was enough evidence that Mr H had been 
promised this, before entering into the finance agreement.
Mr H disagreed. In summary, he said that:
the reported mileage wasnt correct;
the diagnostic report wasnt carried out properly; and
the car shouldnt have passed its MOT.
The complaints now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Please be aware that Ive carefully considered everything that both parties have told me. So, 
where I dont refer to any specific points made, it isnt because I havent thought about them. 
Rather, Ive focussed on what I consider to go to the heart of the complaint, to reach a fair 
outcome.
I know the issues with the car have had a big impact on Mr Hs life. Im very sorry to hear 
this, and I know my decision will be very disappointing for him. But, having taken all of the 
submissions into account, I agree with the investigator. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that its most likely the issues have been caused by wear and tear, 
commensurate with the age and mileage of the car. Im particularly persuaded by Mr H 
having driven around 5,000 miles before the problems presented themselves. I know Mr H 
feels the mileage has been misrepresented, but Ive seen nothing to suggest this is the case.
Im also persuaded by the car having passed its MOT shortly before supply. This couldnt 
have happened if the tyres had been bald at that point. I know Mr H queries the MOT, but 
Ive seen no evidence of anything untoward.
Mr H has also queried the independent inspection. Again, Ive seen nothing to suggest it 
wasnt carried out to a high standard. The reason the car wasnt driven was because the 
tyres were bald, and I think this is reasonable.
Ive also thought about whether Mr H was promised that the car would be serviced before it 
was supplied. Im afraid I dont have sufficient evidence of this. And although Mr H has said 
the oil level was low, this is something that can be (and regularly must be) easily topped up. 
So I dont think this goes to the quality of the car.
Im sorry that these issues have impacted Mr H the way they have. But, in this case, Im 
satisfied the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. So, Im not asking 
Moneybarn to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman