DRN-4034439
The complaint
Mr S complains that Medical and General Independent Financial Advisers Ltd delayed acting 
on his instructions to withdraw money from his ISA. He wants compensation for his financial 
loss and for the distress and inconvenience caused.
What happened
Mr S had an ISA account held on a third-party platform. Medical and General provided 
financial advice to Mr S and was authorised to give instructions on his ISA account.
Mr S says that in February 2020 he became concerned about the potential impact of 
Covid 19 on the markets, and the value of his investments, so he decided to withdraw 
£70,000. He says he emailed withdrawal instructions on 13 February, but he became aware 
on 24 February that his instructions hadnt been carried out. He received the money hed 
requested on 4 March but remained unhappy about what had happened. He complained to 
Medical and General in November 2021.
Medical and General upheld his complaint. It apologised for the delay in acting on Mr Ss 
instructions, which it said was because his email had been received in its spam folder. It 
couldnt say exactly when Mr Ss funds would have been sold if it had acted on his 
withdrawal instructions when it received the email on 13 February, because of its withdrawal 
process. It offered to pay him £2,256.89 and explained how it had calculated the loss figure. 
It offered to pay interest on that amount at 8% per year.
Our investigator concluded that Medical and Generals offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be decided by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr S sent his email on 13 February 2020 and Medical and General accepts it should have 
acted on it within 24 hours of receipt.
Ive considered whether, having made a mistake, Medical and General has offered to put 
Mr S back in the position hed be in if that mistake hadnt been made. Medical and General 
has calculated compensation comparing the value of Mr Ss ISA on 25 February 2020, when 
it gave the withdrawal instruction to the ISA platform manager, to the value on 14 February 
2020, the day after Mr S sent his email. Its calculated that the withdrawal equated to 33.3% 
of the ISA, so its calculated 33.3% of the total loss in value. 
I cant be certain when Mr Ss investments would have been sold if Mr Ss email hadnt been 
received in Medical and Generals spam folder. Thats because of the withdrawal process 
which requires a recommendation to be posted and returned by the consumer. But I dont 
find Medical and Generals compensation calculation to be unfair in the circumstances. It 
offered to pay Mr S £2,256.89. Mr S told Medical and General hed calculated a loss very 
close to this amount and hes not provided evidence to show that the loss he incurred was 
more than Medical and General has offered.
Medical and General offered to pay interest on the compensation of 8% simple per year. 
I think this is fair and reasonable.
Mr S says he would like compensation for the inconvenience and stress he was caused. Ive 
thought about this carefully. But I dont find the impact of Medical and Generals mistake was 
more than someone would reasonably expect to experience. I say this because:
Mr S told us he wanted to withdraw money from his ISA because he was concerned 
about the possible adverse impact of the pandemic on his investments. But I can see 
that hed told Medical and General as early as August 2019 that he would be 
withdrawing money for a car purchase. Medical and General contacted him in 
February 2020 to check if hed made progress with his plans and it was following that 
email that Mr S gave his instructions to withdraw £70,000. Theres nothing within the 
email to suggest that he was concerned about a possible fall in the value of his 
investments. 
It was Medical and General who contacted Mr S on 24 February to tell him it had only 
just found his email in its spam folder and that it would be arranging the withdrawal. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr S may have had other priorities, he didnt complain about the 
delay in acting on his instructions until November 2021. I would have reasonably 
expected him to complain much earlier than that  and soon after February 2020  if hed 
been distressed about Medical and Generals mistake.
As the investigator explained, my aim is to put Mr S back in the position hed be in if Medical 
and General hadnt made a mistake. Our role is not to punish a business. For the reasons 
Ive explained, Im satisfied Medical and Generals offer is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Medical and General Independent Financial Advisers Ltd should:
1. Pay Mr S £2,256.89.
2. Pay interest on that amount at 8% simple per annum from 14 February 2020 to the date 
of settlement. *
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Medical and General Independent Financial Advisers Ltd 
to take off tax from this interest. Medical and General Independent Financial Advisers Ltd 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman