DRN-3638349
The complaint
Mr B complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited failed to locate his policy 
which caused him distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision. 
Scottish Friendly offered £25 for what happened however Mr B didnt accept this and is 
seeking an increased amount of compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:  
- On 8 December 2021 Mr B called Scottish Friendly to discuss his policy, when he 
spoke to one of its advisors he was told his policy couldnt be located. Scottish 
Friendly has recognised its error here and confirmed that the advisor couldve done 
more to locate the policy during the call. 
- All parties agree that Mr B was given wrong information about his policy and I can 
understand why this wouldve caused Mr B some worry and upset. So, what I must 
now think about is the steps Scottish Friendly has taken to put things right. When a 
consumer is given incorrect information I firstly need to consider if there was any 
financial impact. Here, Mr B was calling to enquire about his policy, and I havent 
seen any evidence that the wrong information led him to take any actions that 
resulted in a financial loss.
- The issue here is one of distress and inconvenience. Mr B has said following the call 
with Scottish Friendly in December 2021 he was left worried and anxious, because 
amongst other things he had been paying into his policy for many years and so didnt 
understand why it couldnt be located. 
- Scottish Friendly has offered £25 compensation for what happened. Mr B says this 
amount is unfair because of the trouble and upset this caused him and given his 
personal circumstances around that time I can understand why. I accept that Scottish 
Friendly were unaware of Mr Bs personal circumstances but in any event, I think it 
couldve confirmed Mr B had a policy much sooner than it did. 
- At the earliest, I can see Mr B was told his policy did in fact exist, but this wasnt until 
he received the outcome to his complaint in February 2021. Scottish Friendly has 
said it dealt with the matter within the expected timescales, I agree it did provide Mr B 
with a response to his complaint within a reasonable amount of time. But I cant see 
any reason why it delayed confirming with Mr B that he did have a policy. For 
example, a phone call couldve put Mr B at ease during the time he waited to hear 
the outcome of his complaint.   
Putting things right
- Being told the wrong information was an error, I can see that Scottish Friendly has 
apologised and offered £25 compensation, but I dont think this fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience its error caused. 
- So, I think Scottish Friendly should pay Mr B £75 for the delay in confirming his policy 
existed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited 
should pay Mr B £75 for the reasons explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman