DRN-4448695
The complaint
X complains that they have been treated unfairly over several years by London Community 
Credit Union (LCCU), which has led to them suffering losses. 
What happened
X has made many expressions of dissatisfaction to LCCU since 2020 but has not been 
provided a final response letter to any of them. 
The unresolved issues included: 
X has had frequent difficulty accessing their statements, and what they have received 
show discrepancies in the account balances. 
A savings account X thinks LCCU has lost. 
X submitted a Subject Access Request (SAR) that was not responded to. 
There are instances of payments being deducted twice instead of once  a £1 
payment to a food delivery firm; and payments of £589.99 and £151.32 to credit 
cards that X holds 
LCCU charged X £5 for a lost card, when they had not reported the card as lost. 
It was agreed a £10 direct debit fee would be refunded by LCCU, but this didnt 
happen. 
Payments from Xs account were regularly declined by LCCU, despite have enough 
money in the account to cover the costs. 
X applied for a loan, but it wasnt processed in time. They were told theyd have to 
reapply in branch, but this was at a time when those with clinical vulnerabilities were 
advised to stay at home. 
LCCU have not responded to Xs hundreds of attempts to contact them. 
X told our service that because of these issues theyd had to borrow money elsewhere, 
which led to them paying more interest that they would have. They said this had impacted 
the interest rates available to them. As they couldnt access their funds in their account, 
theyd had to delay shipping a painting theyd purchased, which meant the shipping costs 
went up from £200 to £1,200. 
As X received no response from LCCU they referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators asked LCCU for further information but did not receive a satisfactory response. 
As such, they upheld Xs complaint. They said: 
LCCU should provide access to statements for all of Xs accounts. 
The statements provided by X showed a different balance to the online banking 
screens for the same balance. LCCU hadnt provided an explanation for this, so they 
asked for the higher balance to be made available to X, and for the online banking to 
reflect this. 
They could see X had submitted a SAR, but could not see LCCU had responded. 
They asked for LCCU to complete the SAR. 
The merchant for the £1 payment confirmed LCCU should have released this 
payment after a few days. There was no evidence LCCU had ever done so, so they 
asked for it to be refunded, plus 8% simple interest per annum. 
X had demonstrated that only a single payment had been credited to each credit card 
account, and LCCU had not provided an explanation for the duplicate payments. 
They asked for the amounts to be refunded, plus 8% simple interest. 
LCCU hadnt shown that X reported a debit card lost. They asked for the charge to 
be refunded, plus 8% simple interest. 
There were emails demonstrating LCCU had agreed to refund the £10 direct debit 
charge, but no explanation of why this hadnt been done. They asked for this to be 
refunded. 
X had demonstrated that their debit card was declined when there were funds 
available. LCCU hadnt provided an explanation for this. X had also shown they were 
charged £5.69 for a phone call attempting to resolve this. They asked for this charge 
to be refunded. 
They hadnt received any evidence of X making a loan application or being told to go 
in to branch to complete it. 
They couldnt reasonably conclude that the increase in shipping costs of Xs painting 
was down to the actions of LCCU. 
They accepted Xs credit score had decreased but werent persuaded that this was 
down to the actions of LCCU. And they couldnt conclude that this has led to higher 
borrowing costs for X. 
But they accepted LCCU had caused X a significant amount of stress and 
inconvenience in their handling of Xs accounts, and by not responding to the 
complaints. They suggested LCCU pay X £200 in compensation to reflect this. 
In response LCCU accepted this as an outcome. X disagreed, saying they had not had 
correct statements since 2017. They thought there were other amounts that had gone 
missing from their account. They asked LCCU to investigate whether there had been fraud 
on their account. They said they were having difficulty agreeing to the outcome as they didnt 
feel they had the full information available to them. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
After review I broadly agreed with the investigators outcome but felt the redress should be 
higher. I issued my provisional decision that said:
I can see that X has raised numerous issues with LCCU. And LCCU has not done a good 
job at responding to their complaints and concerns. This decision will concentrate on the 
issues X raised with our service at the point the complaints were referred to us. If there are 
ongoing issues, or new issues X has they will have to direct them to LCCU in the first 
instance. 
I want to assure X Ive reviewed and considered all their submissions to our service. If I 
havent commented on something in particular it isnt because I have ignored it or failed to 
take it on board. Rather its because I do not see the need to comment on it directly when 
reaching a fair outcome. 
Account statements and balances 
The primary duty of LCCU when providing accounts is to ensure that they securely hold their 
consumers money, and any transactions are executed and recorded correctly. From what X 
has sent us there is a discrepancy in the statements between the pdf statements provided 
and what the online banking is showing. LCCU didnt provide an explanation for this. X has provided us with a screenshot of LCCUs 
website which states that there may be problems with the displayed balances, so there 
appears to be a known issue. Its not the role of our service to audit accounts to ensure their 
accuracy, but in the absence of any explanation for the difference I see its reasonable for X 
to rely on the higher of the two balances to be available to them. 
Based on what Ive seen, these appears more likely to be accurate. The latest statement I 
have from X shows the balance as £1,092.20 on 3 May 2023, so LCCU should ensure the 
balance is reflected from that date onwards. I can also see from the statements available 
there is a savings account which X has made transfers in to and out of, so Im satisfied its 
not lost. 
LCCU should provide X with statements as far back as they are available. 
Disputed payments 
LCCU have already agreed to refund the disputed payments for £1, £589.99 and £151.32, 
and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement. I 
see this is a fair way to resolve these disputed transactions. The money is refunded to X. 
And the interest award is to recognise the period that X hasnt had use of the funds, and any 
missed opportunities associated with this. This is in line with our services approach to 
disputed transactions. 
X has commented that there are further transactions they dispute, or dont recognise. But we 
havent received any specific details about the dates or amounts of these enough to 
investigate further. They have mentioned an amount of £43.11, but Ive not seen a specific 
transaction of this amount to investigate. So, I cant say LCCU should refund this amount. 
I also note X has shown evidence they asked LCCU to only pay a certain amount of a direct 
debit. But when a direct debit is set up its the merchant who selects how much is taken, and 
when. This is different to a standing order, where the consumer sets and amount to be paid 
regularly, and the bank is responsible for following these instructions. 
For example, if a direct debit is set up to pay an energy supplier, the supplier would select 
how much they are taking and use the direct debit mandate to pay this from the account. It 
wouldnt be up to LCCU to choose the amount, or limit how much can be taken  and in any 
case declining to process direct debits could potentially leave someone in debt to the 
merchant. So, I cant say LCCU have done anything wrong here. 
As mentioned above its not the role of our service to audit accounts. We can look at 
individual transactions and make a finding on whether we think they were likely authorised or 
not. So, without specific transactions to consider I cant fairly ask LCCU to review anything 
further. 
But its clear there has been problems with how LCCU have been displaying the available 
balance on Xs accounts. So, if there are further transactions X believes are fraudulent or 
mistaken, then they should refer them to LCCU in the first instance. 
Fees, charges and costs 
LCCU have already agreed to refund the disputed £5 card replacement fee and include the 
8% interest on this. This is a fair way to resolve this situation. 
They also have now agreed to refund the £10 unpaid direct debit fee, which is reasonable.X was charged £5.69 in phone charges when trying to resolve the issue with their debit card 
being declined, which LCCU have now agreed to refund. 
Overall, Im satisfied that its fair that LCCU have refunded these various fees and charges X 
has incurred. 
Ive considered what X has said about the increase in shipping costs for their painting. But I 
cant see that there is a direct relation to the cost of shipping increasing, or that it could have 
been reasonably foreseeable to LCCU. Im also aware that at points X would have had the 
funds available to pay the shipping costs; or access to funds elsewhere to pay for it. So, Im 
not persuaded that its reasonable to ask LCCU to cover any increase in cost. 
Subject Access Request 
Im satisfied that X provided a valid request for a SAR in January 2023, and X failed to action 
this. They have now agreed to do so, which I see as a fair way to resolve this issue. Its likely 
the SAR will include the statements X has asked for. 
Loan application 
LCCU have said they dont have a record of any active loan applications. Having reviewed 
what X has provided I can see they contacted LCCU about a loan application in December 
2021, saying they couldnt complete it online. But I havent seen enough to conclude that X 
had a loan application stopped or was told to attend branch to complete it. 
As the loan application doesnt seem to have progressed, I cant say for certain whether X 
would have been approved for a loan or not. So, I cant say there are any specific losses 
associated with any loan application, such that LCCU should be responsible for. 
Declined payments 
X has sent us evidence of many payments attempted using their LCCU debit card. There 
could be many reasons for a payment to be declined. But from what Ive seen in many of the 
cases there should have been enough funds available in the account, so I dont think a lack 
of available funds is the primary cause. 
LCCU havent commented on this, but given the frequency of declines I can appreciate it 
would be incredibly frustrating to X. Theyve shown they had to set up a second bank 
account to make payments that LCCU had declined, which has mitigated their 
circumstances somewhat. But Im minded that LCCU havent treated them fairly in 
continually declining these transactions. 
Impact on credit file and cost of borrowing 
Ive considered the evidence provided by X, that shows their credit score has declined, and 
that also the interest charged on their credit cards has increased. 
The credit score provided by a credit reference agency is an indication of credit worthiness  
it isnt necessarily used by lenders when judging whether to lend, or at what cost. Each 
lender will likely judge this based on their own lending criteria. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that any information reported by LCCU to credit reference agencies has impacted any third 
party lending decisions  or that any information they report externally has been inaccurate. 
So, I cant see theyve done anything unreasonable here. Likewise, the increase in interest rates on credit cards will be down to the lender. I note the 
interest rates have increased in the time that X has been having difficulty with LCCU. But 
this was also a period where interest rates in general were increasing. Again, Ive seen 
nothing specific to show that the increase in the cost of borrowing is down to the actions of 
LCCU. Im not persuaded these increased costs are something LCCU can be held liable for.
Customer service 
X has demonstrated that they attempted to contact LCCU about the various issues theyve 
faced with their account on numerous occasions  by email, phone and through the website. 
I can see there were occasional responses, but there doesnt appear to have been a 
concerted effort from LCCU to engage with the issues X raised. And Ive seen nothing to 
suggest various complaints were logged or responded to. 
X is a vulnerable individual, and Im satisfied that LCCU would have been aware of this. 
While I havent necessarily agreed with all their complaint points, I dont consider any of the 
issues raised to have been frivolous, or vexatious. These are all legitimately held concerns 
about the running of the account. So, I cant see a reason it wouldnt be appropriate to 
respond to these concerns. 
Its clear the information being provided by LCCU about the balance was contradictory. Its 
also very clear how frustrating and upsetting this was for X. It took over a year before any 
kind of resolution was reached for them. I can see how X will feel very let down by the 
service received. In the circumstances I think its appropriate for LCCU to pay them 
compensation for the upset caused. 
If X raises any complaints with LCCU in the future, they should acknowledge and respond to 
the complaints in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. 
To put things right I suggested LCCU do the following:
X should be provided with statements of their account as far back as they are 
available. 
The balance of the account be corrected to show the higher of the two balances 
presented  as of 3 May 2023 this was £1,092.20 
The disputed payments of £1, £589.99 and £151.32 be returned to Xs account. 
These refunds should also have 8% simple interest per annum added, from the date 
the payment left the account to the date the money is returned to X. 
The £5 card replacement fee be refunded, along with 8% simple interest per annum 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
The £10 unpaid direct debit returned to X. 
Pay X the £5.69 costs of the phone calls to LCCU. 
Respond to Xs SAR. 
Considering compensation, I was minded that the there are several overlapping issues that 
X raised and didnt receive a response. Given how long the issue had gone on, and the lack 
of responses from LCCU I was minded that there should be an additional £300 
compensation to the £200 already paid.
Neither party responded to the provisional decision before the deadline. As such it now falls 
on me to issue my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and without any new evidence or comments from the parties to consider, I 
remain satisfied with the conclusions reached in the provisional decision. 
To resolve this complaint LCCU must ensure they carry out the actions outlined in the 
provisional decision  including the additional £300 compensation.
I would also like to remind LCCU of their ongoing obligations to acknowledge and respond to 
any complaints X may raise in future.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct LCCU to settle it as outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman