DRN-2237351
The complaint
Mr C and Ms E say The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia Co-op) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr C and Ms E bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided cover for Mr C and Ms E for unemployment only  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £426.00 a month towards Mr C and  Ms Es 
mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it was free for the first 12 
months, then £12.79 a month. 
The benefit was split to provide 61% cover to Mr C and 39% cover to Ms E. So, for example 
if Mr C made a successful claim hed receive 61% of the benefit or £259.86 per month.
At the time, Mr C was employed as a manager. He has told us he was entitled to 12 months 
sick pay should he be unable to work. Mr C would also have received a redundancy 
payment if he had lost his job. Mr C has said he was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Ms E was employed in community transport. She has told us she was entitled to 12 months 
sick pay should she be unable to work. Ms E would also have received a redundancy 
payment if she had lost her job. She was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Mr C and Ms E had no other means such as savings to rely on if they had lost their jobs.
Co-op has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2004. 
Mr C and Ms Es representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr C and Ms Es representative says:
Co-op failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr C and Ms E 
wouldnt have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr C and Ms 
Es representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Co-op should have 
told Mr C and Ms E about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Co-op should have explained 
the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr C and Ms E and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest ever long-term transaction  cover would stop just at 
the time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr C and Ms E received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr C and Ms E disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr C and Ms Es. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr C and Ms Es 
complaint.
This sale took place in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005. So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 2004. That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable. There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private customers  the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period of industry self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC). It published the GISC Code, which set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Co-op, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
While not all intermediaries who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like Co-op at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr C and 
Ms Es case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the Building Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building Societies Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman 
was required to decide complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so Co-
op was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr C and Ms Es complaint. key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
- If Co-op gave advice, whether it advised Mr C and Ms E with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given 
their needs and circumstances. 
- Whether Co-op gave Mr C and Ms E sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mr C 
and Ms E, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr C and Ms E 
suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and Ms E 
and Co-op, Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Ms Es complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr C and Ms E know they had a choice?
Co-op had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form which shows the cover unemployment 
only was selected.
Co-op has also shown us a copy of letters it says were sent to Mr C and Ms E. The first 
confirming the cover with initial 12 months free premiums, and another from 2002 telling    
Mr C and Ms E that the free period was ending and that the monthly premium would be 
£12.79.
Co-op has told us Mr C contacted it in January 2002 to request a quotation for adding 
accident and sickness cover to the policy. This quote wasnt taken up. 
And I can see the premiums for the policy were taken by direct debit separately to the 
mortgage and continued for some time until 2004.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr C and Ms E knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Co-op provide advice?
Co-op says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr C and Ms E disagree.   Looking at 
what happened when Co-op sold Mr C and Ms E the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided 
advice. I say this as Id usually expect to see some documentary evidence of a fact-find or 
reasons for the recommendation if advice was given and I have not seen any. And from 
experience I am aware that Co-op didnt generally give advice on this type of insurance..This means Co-op didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr C and Ms E. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr C and Ms E were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if they 
were unable to work through unemployment. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its 
unlikely Mr C and Ms E would have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy 
was for.
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Co-op gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr C and Ms E agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont think Co-op gave Mr C and Ms E sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mr C and Ms Es representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr C and 
Ms Es. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr C and Ms Es representative considers to be 
poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Mr C and Ms E about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained the significance of them to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr C and Ms Es representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer 
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr C and Ms E have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Co-op ought to have done either. 
what effect did Co-ops shortcomings have on Mr C and Ms E? To what extent did Mr 
C and Ms E suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Co-op didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr C and Ms 
E. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr C and 
Ms E would have still taken out the policy, had Co-op done things properly. 
Mr C and Ms E say they would not have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr C and Ms E had to weigh up in their own minds the cost 
of the policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of them being made unemployed. 
As Ive found above, Mr C and Ms E chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude they had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr C and 
Ms E thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this differed 
is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr C and Ms E have suffered any loss or 
detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr C and Ms E knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy after 12 months, it doesnt appear Co-op told them the exact 
premium at the point they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr C and 
Ms E would have been told the cost before the end of the 12 month free period and they 
paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs were significantly at odds with their 
expectations at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with Co-op at the 
time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr C and Ms E would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded Co-op made clear exactly what Mr C and Ms E would get 
back in return in the event  they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr C and 
Ms Es expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage payment) were significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr C and Ms E thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought were the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mr C and 
Ms E were not permanent employees;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have 
caused Mr C and Ms E pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have 
dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C and Ms E from 
taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence about Mr C and Ms Es circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. Mr C and Ms E were eligible for its benefits and 
it provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to 
them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest they wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  they were both in 
permanent employment. So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Mr C and Ms E have told us they were both entitled to generous sick pay benefits from their 
employers. But they chose not to take out accident or sickness cover so the policy did not 
duplicate the cover they already had. And because the policy only covered them for 
unemployment they would not have been affected by any of the policys limitations or 
exclusions relating to health or pre-existing medical conditions.
Co-op may not have told Mr C and Ms E that any claim they made would be limited to a 12- 
month period. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but their  redundancy entitlement was also likely to be  significantly less than 12 months 
income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely Mr C and Ms E would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit to them and 
would help them manage the consequences should Mr C or Ms E be become unemployed. 
The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce their outgoings at a 
difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr C and Ms E would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely they thought they were getting and provided benefits that would help 
them manage the consequences if they were made redundant. In the circumstances I 
consider it more likely than not that Mr C and   Ms E would have taken out the policy in any 
event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr C and Ms Es representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr C and Ms E would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr C and Ms 
Es circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr C 
and Ms E found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr C and Ms E believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed 
to give proper weight to the evidence  including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr C and Ms E in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken 
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy 
they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Co-op should pay Mr C and Ms E compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr C and Ms E think Co-op misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some 
of Co-ops statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Co-op 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall information Co-op gave Mr C and Ms E, in 
the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have met in 2001 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr C and Ms Es representative says a court might take 
if it were to find Co-op negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr C and Ms E and about 
the remedy a court might award if it were to find that Co-op had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr C and Ms E in a better position than if 
everything had happened as it should have done. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Ms E and Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
14 December 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman