DRN-2181026
The complaint
Mr S complains that British Gas Insurance Limited didnt carry out an annual service as part 
of his home care policy with it.
What happened
Mr S had a home care policy with British Gas. The policy ran for a year beginning 
March 2019. The policy included an annual service of Mr S boiler. 
In March 2020 Mr S contacted British Gas to find out when the service would take place. It 
told him that its engineers were busy and unable to attend that month. It arranged the 
service for the beginning of April. 
However shortly after this the UK Government imposed restrictions on people visiting other 
households due to the Covid-19 pandemic. British Gas contacted Mr S to explain that due to 
these restrictions it was prioritising vulnerable customers and wouldnt be able to fulfil the 
service at that time.
Mr S complained to British Gas. He said that he was elderly and had a medical condition so 
should be considered vulnerable. And he said British Gas had left him open to a failure of his 
boiler by not carrying out an annual service. He asked it to refund the premiums he had paid 
for the years policy. And he said he no longer wished to continue with the new policy that 
had renewed in March 2020.
British Gas responded to Mr S complaint. It confirmed it had cancelled his new policy and 
would refund the money he had paid for the policy premiums so far. It also said that as it 
hadnt been able to carry out an annual service it would refund Mr S £65, as this is the cost 
of the service. However it said it wouldnt refund the premiums for the year as the policy 
provided cover above just an annual service.
Mr S wasnt happy with this, as he thought British Gas should agree to refund at least £200 
in total. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said that the terms and conditions of the policy say that the annual service may not be 
completed within 12 months. And it made allowances for times of increased public demand. 
So he thought British Gas had acted fairly and reasonably by just refunding the cost of the 
service.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S is unhappy because British Gas were unable to carry out an annual service during his 
policy year that ran from March 2019-2020. He says they put him at risk of having no hot 
water if his boiler broke. 
When considering a complaint like this I need to consider what British Gas is required to do 
under the terms and condition of the policy. Whether it fulfilled these requirements on a fair 
and reasonable basis and where it hasnt, whether it has done enough to put things right. 
From the documentation provided, I can see that Mr S home care policy included an annual 
service. And I can see this wasnt carried out during the policy year. However the terms and 
conditions of the policy state as follows:
Your annual service may be more than 12 months after your last service visit.
So although an annual service is included in the policy, it doesnt guarantee that this will take 
place within 12 months of the last one.
When Mr S contacted British Gas in March 2020 it explained that its engineers were busy 
and the first available appointment would be on 7 April. This appointment was confirmed at 
the time. 
I appreciate that this appointment was already outside the policy year. However British Gas 
explained this was its first available appointment at the time. And as the policy terms allow 
for services being more than 12 months apart it think this was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
However before the date of the appointment, the UK government introduced lockdown 
restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic. And subsequently British Gas said it wouldnt be 
able to attend Mr S appointment at the start of April. It said due to the restrictions it was only 
prioritising emergency call outs and vulnerable customers.
At the time of the original scheduled appointment, the government guidance was that contact 
with other households should be avoided. So I can understand why British Gas made the 
decision to limit its services to only emergencies, in order to ensure it was following 
government guidance. 
Further, the terms and conditions of the policy go on to say:
In periods of local or national high demand for our services (such as cold weather), we 
prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual service.
In this circumstance, although demand may not have been higher, what British Gas were 
able to do was reduced. So I think it was reasonable that it prioritised breakdowns and 
emergency call outs.
Mr S has explained that he is elderly and has a medical condition, so felt he would be 
categorised as vulnerable and therefore prioritised. I sympathise with Mr S and appreciate 
why he would have been concerned about having his boiler serviced. However in this 
instance British Gas were considering the service itself and whether that was priority. 
Although annual services are important, they are required for maintenance, to try and ensure 
a problem doesnt develop. As British Gas had to reduce its services in order to follow 
Government guidance, it prioritised call outs where a problem had already developed and 
was having an impact of the policy holder. For example where a boiler had broken and the 
customer had no hot water. So although I do appreciate Mr S would have been worried about the possibility of his boiler 
breaking if it didnt have a service, I dont think it was unreasonable for British Gas to 
prioritise other kinds of appointment at that time.
Further British Gas said it would carry out the service once restrictions were lifted. So it 
would have still provided the service once it was safe to do so. 
Mr S has said that as the service wasnt provided he should receive a refund for the relevant 
policy year. I understand why he feels this way, as he didnt receive all the features of the 
policy that he expected. British Gas has offered a refund of £65 which its shown covers the 
cost of the annual service. And it has cancelled Mr S newly renewed policy and refunded 
the money paid for that. 
Although Mr S didnt receive one of the features of the policy, it provided for other things as 
well, such as emergency call outs. As he had the policy for the full policy year he had the 
benefit of that cover for that time. So I think British Gas has acted fairly and reasonably by 
offering a £65 refund for the part of the policy cover Mr S didnt receive. And, as Mr S 
decided to cancel his policy that renewed for the next policy year, I think its fair that British 
Gas has offered a refund of the premiums paid towards the new policy as a gesture of 
goodwill.
For these reasons I am satisfied that British Gas have treated Mr S fairly and reasonably and 
I wont ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont require British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman