DRN-3572121
The complaint
Mr U has complained that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont help him retrieve a 
payment he made from his bank account.
Whats happened?
Mr U says he paid a £75 deposit for a service with a private individual on 18 February 2022. 
But the service was never provided, and the private individual hasnt refunded him.
Mr U contacted Starling for assistance, but he says that before he even had chance to send 
any evidence to the bank, it refused to investigate and declined to help him. Hes unhappy 
that the bank made a default decision within minutes of him reporting the matter, and that it 
had no genuine interest in reviewing his evidence. To resolve matters, he would like Starling 
to help him retrieve his money from the beneficiary account.
Starling has said that it is unable to assist Mr U due to the nature of the service he paid a 
deposit for, and because this is a civil dispute between Mr U and the private individual. 
Mr U referred a complaint about Starling to this Service. Our investigator looked into things 
but didnt uphold Mr Us complaint because he concluded that this matter is a civil dispute. 
As Mr U didnt agree with our investigators findings, his complaint has now been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is my role to decide whether Starling has made an error in this case and, if it has, what, if 
anything, it should do to put things right. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
When Starling made the payment, it was complying with Mr Us instructions to pay the 
private individual, as it is obliged to do. And considering the relatively low value of the 
payment as well as the usual activity on Mr Us account, I wouldnt have expected Starling to 
intervene with the payment in any way. So, I dont think Starling acted incorrectly by making 
the payment and it wouldnt be fair to ask it to refund it on this basis. Ive considered whether 
Starling should refund the payment for any other reason, but I dont think it should.
Starling has signed up to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code), and it was in force at the time the payment was made. Under the CRM Code, 
the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who has been the victim of 
an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt 
apply to all APPs. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
I understand why Mr U feels he has been scammed, but from what Ive seen, I dont think 
I can fairly say that the situation Mr U finds himself in is a scam, although I accept and 
acknowledge that he hasnt received the service he paid for. I think the payment forms part 
of a civil dispute between Mr U and the private individual. I say this because I havent seen 
any persuasive evidence that the private individual was operating a scam, or that they 
intended to defraud Mr U from the outset  by taking his money with no intention of providing 
him with the desired service. 
Ive reviewed the evidence Mr U has provided and I can see that an appointment for 
providing the service Mr U paid a deposit for was arranged before the deposit was paid and 
further details about the appointment were then provided. The private individual 
subsequently let Mr U know that they were unable to attend the appointment and did not 
want to reschedule it but would provide a refund. Mr U gave the private individual his bank 
details so they could send his money back to him but there was a delay in them doing so 
due to technical difficulties. After that, there was a breakdown in the communication between 
the parties and Mr U says the private individual never returned his deposit. 
Considering everything, I think its most likely that the private individual intended to provide 
the service Mr U paid a deposit for but was unable to do so. I also think its most likely that 
the private individual intended to refund Mr U until communication broke down. Looking at 
the communication between the two parties, it doesnt seem likely the private individual was 
operating a scam.
The available evidence suggests that Mr U paid a legitimate supplier of services for a service 
which unfortunately wasnt provided or refunded. As such, I dont think Starling is 
responsible for reimbursing Mr U because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
Mr U has my sympathies. Hes found himself in an unenviable situation. But overall, Im not 
satisfied that there has been a bank error in this case. I cant see any fair or reasonable 
grounds on which I could say that Starling should bear the responsibility of Mr Us loss, and 
I dont think it ought to have done more to assist Mr U in the circumstances  by intervening 
to prevent the payment or attempting to retrieve it from the beneficiary account.
I appreciate that Mr U thinks Starling made a quick decision in this matter and didnt fully 
consider his evidence. This may be the case but, ultimately, the decision Starling made was 
fair and reasonable. So, I dont think this has had an adverse impact on Mr U which Starling 
should compensate him for.
I realise this will be disappointing news for Mr U, and it isnt the outcome he wanted, but 
I hope the reasons why Ive reached my decision are clear. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman