DRN-2441746
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold a repayment mortgage to them 
when they wanted an interest only mortgage. As a result, they couldnt borrow as much as 
they wanted and had to sell some investments. They ask that Barclays compensates them 
for the investment gains theyve missed out on and the higher cost of the repayment 
mortgage. They also ask that it puts their mortgage onto an interest only basis.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with Barclays which was on part repayment and part interest 
only terms. In 2014 they wanted to move house and contacted Barclays. Mr and Mrs M say 
they wanted an interest only mortgage and believe they met Barclays lending criteria for 
this. They say Barclays didnt properly consider this, but only offered a repayment mortgage 
and for less than they wanted to borrow. This left them short of funds for their purchase and 
they had to sell ISA investments to fund the difference. 
Our investigator said Barclays recommendation of a repayment mortgage wasnt unsuitable 
based on Mr and Mrs Ms stated needs and preferences.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, saying our investigator hadnt taken into account the earlier 
meetings they had with Barclays, or the information in the fact find. They said the main part 
of their complaint is that they should have been offered an interest only mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2014 Mr and Mrs M wanted to move house. They wanted to borrow on an interest only 
basis and believe they met Barclays criteria for this. Mr and Mrs M already had a mortgage 
with Barclays. They say they wanted to keep their Barclays mortgage product due to the 
good interest rates and were under to pressure to complete their purchase. They felt they 
had no option but to accept when Barclays only offered them a repayment mortgage. 
Barclays didnt offer Mr and Mrs M as much as they wanted to borrow for their purchase. Mr 
and Mrs M says this was because the mortgage was on a repayment basis. So they cashed 
in ISAs to fund the difference. And without the ISAs they didnt have a repayment vehicle for 
the interest only part of their mortgage, so they had to switch this to repayment as well.
Mr and Mrs M provided a copy of a mortgage certificate (also known as a decision in 
principle) dated late March 2014. This said based on the information theyd provided they 
may be able to borrow up to £418,000. This was more than Barclays agreed to lend. 
However, a decision in principle isnt a mortgage offer. Barclays didnt make a mortgage 
offer until it had carried out a full affordability assessment. 
Mr and Mrs M say they made their preference for an interest only mortgage clear when they 
met with Barclays in March and early June 2014. Barclays doesnt have records of these 
meetings. It can provide records from the later meetings  which were the basis on which the 
mortgage was recommended. As well as the mortgage application, Barclays provided its 
internal notes, which record the information it received and discussions with Mr and Mrs M.
The mortgage application likely reflected Mr and Mrs Ms discussions with the mortgage 
adviser, in particular the recommendation of a repayment mortgage. I dont think this means 
that Barclays made an error or treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly. Barclays had to collect 
information about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, and evidence of their income, expenditure 
and commitments. If, having followed this process, Barclays reduced the amount it would 
lend from the decision in principle, or recommended a different type of mortgage, this 
doesnt mean it made an error. I dont know if Mr and Mrs M would have met Barclays 
lending criteria for an interest only mortgage as the application wasnt made on that basis. 
Based on the records Barclays provided, I dont think I can reasonably find that the mortgage 
it recommended was unsuitable. It met Mr and Mrs Ms aims as stated in the mortgage 
application and Barclays internal notes. While an interest only mortgage was Mr and 
Mrs Ms preference, this doesnt mean the mortgage Barclays recommended was 
unsuitable.
Mr and Mrs M say the mortgage application contains many inaccuracies (they marked these 
on a copy) and doesnt reflect their preferences. Based on the available evidence, I dont 
think there are errors in the application such that the mortgage recommendation was likely to 
have been unsuitable.
Mr and Mrs M were aware that the mortgage offered by Barclays which they accepted  
was on a repayment basis, and for less than theyd originally hoped to borrow. I havent seen 
evidence that Barclays advised Mr and Mrs M to cash in their ISAs. I think Mr and Mrs M 
most likely cashed in their ISAs as otherwise they didnt have enough money to buy the 
house they wanted.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M wanted to keep their Barclays interest rate product, and felt 
under time pressure from the vendor of the property they wanted to buy. They will have had 
to weigh the benefits of proceeding with the mortgage offered by Barclays against applying 
elsewhere to see if another lender would offer an interest only mortgage. But ultimately they 
made the decision to accept the mortgage offered by Barclays. 
I dont think, based on the available evidence, that this mortgage recommendation was 
unsuitable. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require 
Barclays to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs M, or switch their mortgage to interest only 
terms. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman