DRN-1196084
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Abbey National Plc (now Santander UK Plc) advised them to 
take out a mortgage product that went into his retirement. Mr and Mrs P say they werent 
properly advised, and they shouldnt have been sold this product. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a repayment mortgage with Santander in December 2003.
In May 2019 they complained to Santander about the mortgage not being suitable for their 
needs, Mr and Mrs P says the mortgage term went into Mr Ps retirement.
In response to the complaint, Santander didnt uphold the complaint, it said although it was 
the mortgage provider, it didnt sell or give the advice to take out the mortgage and it was 
sold by a third party independent financial adviser.
Unhappy with the response, Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to this service where it 
was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator thought that Santander wasnt 
responsible for the sale and the advice Mr and Mrs P received at the time the mortgage was 
sold. Our investigator thought that Mr and Mrs P needed to direct their complaint to the third 
party independent financial adviser who sold the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed, they said Santander as the lender was still responsible for ensuring 
that the product was suitable for them. And because of the advice they received, they are 
risk of losing their home. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has provided some documentation from the point of sale of Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage. This evidence shows that they received the advice to take out the mortgage from 
an independent third party. And it was this third party that sold the mortgage and put forward 
the application to Santander on behalf of Mr and Mrs P. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs P believe Santander is responsible for the advice they 
received to take out a mortgage they say wasnt suitable for them. But the adviser didnt 
work for Abbey National at the time.
So, in this case the independent third party who wasnt an employee of Santander. As the 
adviser wasnt employed by Santander, they werent a representative of Santander and so 
Santander isnt responsible for the advice. Mr and Mrs P have also said that Santander as the lender also had a responsibility to make 
sure the product was suitable for them. This mortgage was sold before mortgage products 
became regulated and so the rules and regulations that apply now didnt apply at the time.
Santander has provided the offer letter sent to Mr and Mrs P in 2003 explaining that the 
mortgage application was for a repayment mortgage and that a fee was likely to be paid to 
the broker. The mortgage code in effect at the time didnt require the lender to assess the 
suitability of the advice given by an independent adviser. 
Santander in its final response letter has said there are cheaper mortgage options available 
Mr and Mrs P have also said that Santander didnt make them about cheaper mortgage 
options earlier. Mr and Mrs P only raised this point after the investigators view and if they 
wish to pursue this point further, they will need to raise it with Santander in the first instance. 
From the recent information provided by Santander, I can see that Mr and Mrs P have now 
taken a new mortgage product with Santander in June 2019.
Given the above, I cant say Santander has done anything wrong. If Mr and Mrs P want to 
take their complaint further, they need to contact the third-party independent adviser to raise 
their complaint to them directly. I can see that Santander has provided information about the 
third-party independent adviser to Mr and Mrs P.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about Santander UK 
plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman