DRN-2247190
The complaint
Mr Ps father on behalf of his son has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
trading as More Thans decision to cancel Mr Ps car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P bought a car insurance policy with RSA on 13 December 2019 to start on 14 December 
2019. As RSA didnt receive all of the verification documents it asked for on time, it cancelled 
the policy from 5 January 2020. 
Mr P and Mr Ps father contacted RSA on 5 January 2020 and asked it to reverse the 
decision but it didnt. Mr Ps father complained to RSA. He didnt think its decision was fair. 
He said it wasnt possible to initially upload the documents to the app as RSA said they 
could. Mr Ps father didnt think it fair to expect his son, who was a teenager, to contact RSA 
to tell it the app wasnt working for him and to ask for another way to provide the documents. 
He thought the cancellation fee and the consequences of having to declare a cancelled a 
policy to other insurers was unduly harsh.
RSA didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had given extra time to provide the verification 
documents as Mr P had arranged for a black box to be fitted. It said it sent a text message to 
Mr P on 4 January 2020 to tell him it hadnt received all of the documents needed, and gave 
him a final opportunity to provide them before the deadline of 5 January 2020. As it didnt 
hear from Mr P, RSA said it correctly cancelled his policy. 
Mr Ps father asked us to look at their complaint. He wanted RSA to refund the cancellation 
fee it charged and meet the additional premium cost his son had to pay for insurance 
elsewhere. He wanted suitable compensation for the distress and inconvenience RSA had 
caused. 
Our investigator thought RSA had acted reasonably when cancelling the policy. He 
explained that Mr P hadnt said what hed been charged on cancellation, and so he couldnt 
give a view as to whether RSA had been unfair. He asked Mr P to provide details if he felt 
the charges RSA had made exceeded those set out in the policy documents. 
Mr P didnt provide any further information about the charges RSA had applied. But he 
disagreed with the investigators view. In summary he says:
The app wasnt working for his son. He believes the onus was on RSA to advise his 
son of their awareness of issues with the app and to give him alternative options to 
provide the verification documents. 
He accepts receipt of letters from RSA on 17 and 20 December 2019. But he feels 
the timescale given to provide the documents over the Christmas period in their letter 
dated 28 December 2019 wasnt adequate. 
He feels it was unfair of RSA to cancel his sons policy when hed provided some of 
the documents. The first time it called Mr P was to tell him it had cancelled his policy. 
Mr Ps father feels RSA should have done more to prevent the policy from cancelling 
and taken into account his sons age.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call between Mr P and RSA to tell him his policy had cancelled. Mr Ps 
father says his son wasnt treated fairly and asked that I listen to this call. 
Mr P called RSA on 5 January 2020 as hed received a voicemail message asking him to call 
as it was important. He said he was asleep so had missed the call. RSA carried out a 
security check and explained that because it hadnt received the documents needed and the 
black box hadnt been fitted, the policy had been cancelled from midnight and confirmed the 
refund amount that would be paid. Mr P said ok and the agent asked if there was anything 
else she could help with. Mr P said no and so the call ended.
It wasnt correct that the black box hadnt been fitted. But it was correct that the documents 
requested hadnt been provided. However, Mr Ps fathers complaint is that Mr P wasnt 
treated fairly and in his complaint to RSA, he said his son told him the agent had been rude. 
I didnt find that to be the case. So although the information about the black box wasnt 
correct, I dont think this made a difference. 
When Mr P bought the policy on 13 December 2019 it was to start the next day. RSA said it 
needed the verification documents and the black box fitted within 14 days of the start date. 
So this was 27 December 2019. In its letters dated 17 and 20 December 2019, it chased Mr 
P for the documents and told him the policy would cancel on 27 December 2019 if they 
werent received. 
The email address given to RSA as a contact was Mr Ps fathers email address. And M Ps 
father told us that he viewed the online videos with his son from RSA on how to set up the 
app when he bought the policy. 
RSA didnt receive the documents by the deadline of 27 December 2019. But on 28 
December 2019 it wrote to Mr P giving an extension of time to 4 January 2020 to provide 
these as the black box had been fitted on 22 December 2019. I think this was a fair and 
reasonable approach for RSA to take.
Mr Ps father says they provided the documents by scanning and sending them by email to 
RSA on 3 January 2020. He says Mr P only had a couple of days notice by the time he 
received the letter of 28 December 2019. However, not all of the documents were provided. 
And so RSA sent Mr P a text message on 4 January 2020 giving him a final opportunity to 
provide the outstanding documents to prevent the policy from cancelling. As it didnt receive 
a reply, RSA called Mr P on 5 January 2020 to tell him the policy was cancelled. 
Mr Ps father is unhappy that RSA neither acknowledged or denied that there was an issue 
with the app. He said his son tried to use the app again a few days later, but it still didnt 
allow him to uphold documents. I dont know how RSA could have reasonably known Mr P 
was having problems uploading documents to the app without him telling them. So I cant 
criticise RSA for failing to contact Mr P to provide a solution. Had Mr P or his father 
contacted RSA to make them aware, RSA says it would have looked into this and provided 
an alternative method for the documents to be provided. I think RSA followed its cancellation process correctly. And I think it extended the deadline 
beyond the cancellation date, so I dont think Mr Ps fathers point that this was over a 
Christmas period makes RSAs actions unfair. I think if RSA had cancelled the policy on 27 
December 2019, this would have been reasonable and in line with the policy. Overall, RSA 
gave Mr P three weeks to provide the verification documents it asked for. 
Mr Ps father says that his son was vulnerable with regards to what he should do when 
things go wrong. However, Mr P had two years No Claims Discount when he applied for this 
policy. So this means he had experience of  and was responsible for arranging car 
insurance for the previous two years. And RSA emailed Mr Ps fathers email address to 
communicate what it needed to prevent the policy from being cancelled. This was the email 
address Mr P chose to give RSA so that his father would receive any emails for him from 
RSA. 
I realise Mr P and his father will be disappointed with my decision. But taking everything into 
account, I think RSA correctly cancelled Mr Ps policy and I think it treated him fairly and as it 
would any other consumer in the same position. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman