DRN-2093946
The complaint
Ms C complains Ageas Insurance Limited treated her unfairly when they declined part of her 
contents insurance claim.
What happened
Earlier this year, Ms Cs home was broken into. Her property was covered by a contents 
insurance policy Ms C held with Ageas, so she contacted them to make a claim. One of the 
items stolen from Ms Cs home were the spare keys to her car.
After reviewing Ms Cs claim, Ageas told her that car keys werent covered under her policy. 
Ms C disagreed with this as she felt they should be covered because they were stolen from 
her home  and as such should be deemed contents. Ms C also argued that her policy 
didnt say car keys werent covered, so she raised a complaint.
Ageas looked into Ms Cs concerns and issued their final response. In this they maintained 
her policy didnt cover car keys. When doing so, they referred Ms C to the Definitions and 
Loss of keys sections in her policy. Ms C remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator considered Ms Cs complaint but didnt think Ageas had treated her unfairly. 
Our investigator said Ms Cs policy excluded cover for car keys, so she didnt think that part 
of the claim was covered.
Ms C disagreed with our investigator. She maintained that the policy wording she had was 
unclear. She also said Ageas had never sent her the copy of the policy document they 
referred to in their final response letter. Ms C said she had only received a document from 
her broker, and the pages differed in the two documents. This meant Ageas hadnt given her 
all the information she needed to ensure she fully understood what was covered under her 
policy.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion. She explained again that car keys 
arent covered under Ms Cs policy. She also said Ageas and Ms Cs brokers policy 
documents contained the same information. 
As Ms C still disagreed with our investigator, her complaint was passed to me to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint. I know this isnt the 
answer she hoped for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
Are car keys covered under Ms Cs contents policy?
Ms C has said her car keys formed part of her contents because they were stolen from her 
home. For me to decide if this is the case, Ive had to consider the terms and conditions for 
Ms Cs policy.
The Definitions section of Ms Cs policy says:
contents does not include:
parts, spares or accessories for any item listed below;
oany motorised vehicle, either electrically or mechanically powered, other 
than
The policy then goes on list items this exclusion doesnt apply to, however a car isnt in this 
list. I think its reasonable to say car keys fall within the remit of parts, spares or accessories 
of a motorised vehicle. As such, I consider this part of Ms Cs policy clearly sets out car keys 
arent covered.
Ms Cs policy also has a section called 2. Loss of keys. Here it says there is cover for The 
cost of replacing and fitting the locks and keys of external doors and windows of the home if 
the keys are accidentally lost or stolen anywhere in the world.  
As the word home is in bold font, it means it has a specific definition within the policy. And 
that is The main building which you live in, garages which are part of or attached to the 
main building, and outbuildings (including detached garages) all within the boundaries of the 
address shown on your schedule.
Im not persuaded by Ms Cs argument that this wording is unclear. I consider these sections 
clearly explain only the loss of keys to Ms Cs home are covered under this policy. Even if 
this policy didnt define the word home, if we considered its ordinary meaning, I wouldnt 
expect it to cover a car. And the loss of keys section says it covers keys of the home, not 
keys lost in the home.
Taking all of this into account, I dont consider Ageas acted unreasonably when it didnt 
cover Ms Cs stolen car keys. Im satisfied they considered her claim in line with her policy 
terms and conditions.
Policy wording
Ms C has complained Ageas never sent her a copy of her policy wording, and that they 
referred her to the wrong document when they explained her claim wouldnt be covered.
Ms C has confirmed she was sent policy documentation by her broker. And she feels Ageas 
were referring to a different policy document when looking into her claim. Ive reviewed the 
policy document provided by Ageas, and the pages of the document provided by Ms C, and 
Im satisfied they are the same. However, I can understand why there has been some 
confusion. It seems that Ageas final response letter may have referred Ms C to the wrong 
pages. So, the definition of contents is on page 10, not 11; and the Loss of keys section is 
on page 30, not 31.
This mistake wouldnt have been helpful for Ms C when she was already going through a 
difficult time. However, that doesnt mean her claim for car keys should be covered. Thats 
because it was never something she was entitled to under her policy. The documents Ms C 
held would have explained car keys werent covered. So, while she may have experienced 
some confusion after her claim was declined, she still had the correct documents to be 
aware that the loss of her car keys couldnt form part of her claim under her policy.Ms C has also raised several points about the sale of her policy and the information she 
should have been provided at that time. As her policy was sold by a broker, I cant consider 
that as part of this complaint, and I understand this matter is currently being looked into 
against the correct party. 
In conclusion, I dont consider Ageas treated Ms C unfairly. And because of this, I wont be 
asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman