DRN-2251369
The complaint
Mr S has complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called 
Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading at the time as Satsuma. 
He says Satsuma lent to him irresponsibly because the loans he was provided with caused 
him financial problems.
What happened
We now know that Mr S took 2 loans from Satsuma; in April and June 2018. Ive enclosed a 
summary of Mr Ss borrowing with Satsuma, based on the information provided to us:
Loan Sequence Amount Instalments Maximum Combined Monthly 
PremiumRepaid
1. 07/04/2018 £800 12 £133 Outstanding
2. 30/06/2018 £500 9 £244 Outstanding
One of our adjudicators has already looked into the complaint and told Mr S that they didnt 
think it should be upheld. Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Ss complaint.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
S could repay both the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of these things 
and what they mean for Mr Ss complaint.
Satsuma told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr S, including 
assessing his income, expenditure and net disposable income. It says that based on what 
was said, this information showed that Mr S would be able to make the loan repayments he 
was committing to on both occasions. 
Mr S declared his net income (after tax) as £4,200 per month and he also provided details 
about his expenditure. I think its fair to say that from a starting point, this income level would 
appear to be supportive of the borrowing Mr S was seeking. And so, I think for the first loan, 
considering what hed also said about his outgoings, Satsuma would have concluded the 
lending was sustainable.
Given what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I also think it was 
reasonable in this case for Satsuma to have relied on what it had been told by Mr S himself 
together with searching through some of Mr Ss financial profile, but certainly not all of it. 
I think that what was revealed by relying on these methods supported the view that the 
lending was sustainable for loan 1. So, whilst I accept what Mr S says about his wider 
financial situation of that time being very challenging, I dont think Satsuma would have 
exposed this fully in the financial checks it carried out or in the information Mr S himself 
disclosed. I therefore dont uphold the complaint about loan number 1.
For the second loan, I note that this was advanced only a short time after the first and that 
his initial loan was still part-outstanding. But I go back to the level of income Mr S said he 
had and his disclosures about his outgoings. As would be expected, this further loan caused 
further demands on his finances, but it was for a more moderate amount and the term length 
was decreased to fall broadly in-line with the first loan. So his overall indebtedness to 
Satsuma wasnt lengthening and the outgoings still looked affordable for him. I also return to 
the early relationship point, this being only the second loan.
As I say, I do accept that its possible that a deeper examination of Mr S financial profile 
could have revealed a reason not to lend. But I dont think that by loan 2 the situation had 
reached that stage. Satsuma was justified, in my view, on relying on Mr Ss disclosures and 
financial checks at the more basic end of the spectrum. None of the bullet points Ive set out 
above apply to his situation and so I dont uphold this part of the complaint either.
Mr S has raised some important issues about his health which Ive considered 
sympathetically, and I understand the point being made. However, I dont think Satsuma was 
aware of these issues at the time of either loan; had the lending increased over more time, I 
can see such issues might have become more prominent. Nor do I think that Mr S having 
been paid out on mis-sold short-term loans by other entities is relevant to this case. 
Im very sorry to disappoint him.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct Provident 
Personal Credit Limited to pay Mr S any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman