DRN-2289472
The complaint
Mr R says Secure Trust Bank Plc (STB) has provided insufficient customer service and 
administrative support in relation to his fixed rate bonds. 
  
What happened
Mr R opened a 4 year fixed rate bond with STB in August 2018. At the time the account was 
opened, Mr R also placed some further funds on deposit.  
On 5 December 2019, Mr R applied for a 3 year fixed rate bond. He then submitted a second 
application for another 3 year fixed rate bond the same day to which STBs automated 
system sent a chaser email on 12 December 2019  this was because the second 
application was not completed.  
Mr R first complained by calling STB on 12 December 2019. He told STB that he hadnt 
been able to access internet banking using different browsers and devices, specifically when 
trying via smartphone. In addition, he complained that he was made to wait an unreasonable 
amount of time when telephoning STB that day. 
STB acknowledged the complaint in writing the following week. 
In the interim, Mr R sent a further letter to STB on 8 January 2020. While he accepted that it 
had correctly recognised the subject of his complaint, he now needed to register further 
grounds of complaint. These were:
since 12 December he had cause to contact STB twice further with issues;
on 13 December he called about his 3 year bond and was kept waiting another 30 
minutes on hold;
he had to call again on 17 December and was forced to wait another 46 minutes;
on this third call it was told to him that he hadnt applied for a second 4 year bond as 
he had been led to believe on the call of 13 December. Instead he had applied for 
two 3 year bonds, and STBs terms of service prohibited this;
he was also unhappy that during the calls he was asked the same security question 
(to unlock his online banking) and he felt the word could therefore be guessed;
he still couldnt access his accounts by smartphone, yet he was able to make an 
account application by the same method;
he also did not understand why the account verification process couldnt be 
completed by electronic means and had to be done via manual post  particularly 
when he had held the account in question since 1990.  
STB issued a written reply to the complaint on 6 February 2020. In that letter, it apologised 
for the times Mr R had to wait on the telephone, but explained that on occasion, it 
experienced high volumes of telephone calls which unfortunately resulted in longer waiting 
times for its customers. STB said it took Mr Rs feedback on board and endeavoured to 
reduce these times.  
In terms of access to his existing accounts, STB explained it had conducted multiple tests on 
its online banking service to ensure it is on par with leading online banking facilities on the 
market. As it was a new facility, for optimum use of the online banking service it 
recommended that its customers use a computer and Internet Explorer as the browser. 
STB upheld the IT aspect of Mr Rs complaint. It said the issues Mr R had experienced using 
his smartphone were currently being reviewed by its Technical Support Team to see how it 
could enhance its software to improve compatibility with all devices and browsers. STB 
apologised if this had caused Mr R particular inconvenience.  
In respect of the bond applications, it said it was unable to evidence Mr R had been 
misinformed that he had applied for both 3 and 4 year fixed bonds. Instead its records 
showed that he applied twice for 3 year bonds (applications ending #548 and #471) and the 
latter was successfully opened as account ending #333. The first was cancelled as a 
duplicate application as it was not possible to apply for the same product twice. STB could 
not confirm why two applications were made but explained that it may have happened if Mr 
R had refreshed the page or exited the application and started again.  
In respect of application #471, STB said it issued Mr R correspondence on 12 December 
2019 requesting that he provide it with a copy of his bank statement to verify his nominated 
bank details on his application. It had also previously requested this information from him for 
his existing account on 10 December 2019.  
In any event, the time frame it took to do this was longer than its usual seven day standard, 
so it upheld this aspect of the complaint as well, given Mr R had had to contact STB again by 
then. However, it was unable to agree it acted inappropriately by requesting this information 
from Mr R again as it did need a copy of his bank statement to verify his nominated account 
on both his application and his existing account. Once Mr R had supplied the required 
statement on 16 December 2019, it opened the 3 year fixed bond two days later.  
In light of the aspects of the complaint that were upheld, STB offered Mr R £30 
compensation. Mr R did not accept the offer. 
Mr R was unhappy with the outcome and referred his complaint to this service. He said he 
wanted both compensation for the inconvenience he had suffered and a payment to 
represent the loss of interest he had suffered from not being able to take out both bonds.  
On 14 February 2020, STB wrote to Mr R again, this time in relation to his further 
complaints. It said it also understood that Mr R had to chase STB to receive his original bank 
statement back, that he was unhappy at having to verify his bank details, that he had asked 
for call recordings but these were not provided, and that he had concerns over the security 
measures in relation to his chosen memorable word.  
STB did not uphold the complaint regarding the security measures. It explained how its 
advisers cannot see the date on a particular customers memorable word; however, they will 
input the characters provided and the system confirms if the details are correct or not. Of 
course, if a customer calls a number of times then there is the potential of covering all or 
most of the letters in a word  but even then, the customer would not be guaranteed to 
encounter the same call handler. STB said its systems were secure, and it did not accept 
that Mr Rs chosen memorable word was in danger of being discovered or used by any 
unauthorised person.  
STB said it had recently enhanced how it carries out verification checks on account details 
and therefore it was necessary to obtain bank details from Mr R. It had tried to do so 
electronically but could not match these to the records held by a third party credit reference 
agency and therefore it required a paper-based statement. STB did note that Mr R had needed to contact it in late January 2020 as the statement hadnt been received back to him, 
despite the bond having started.  
In relation to the delay in both the statement being returned and for STB to provide Mr R the 
data protection request he made for the call transcripts, it upheld those parts of the 
complaint as the service Mr R received was below the standards STB adheres to. It 
therefore offered Mr R a further £50, in addition to the £30 it had previously offered for the 
inconvenience and upset he had suffered.  
Mr R wrote to STB on 19 February 2020 and explained he had already pursued his 
complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service. He also reiterated that STB had failed to 
return his original bank account statement  instead sending him a copy. He therefore asked 
for it to be sent back to him.  
Our investigator thought that the complaint ought to be upheld in part. In respect of the 
issues with call waiting times, she didnt think Mr R had been unduly inconvenienced. 
Similarly, though Mr R had highlighted issues he felt were prevalent with STBs telephone 
processes, she did not agree that they were insufficient or not secure. She noted Mr R had 
other means of contacting STB if required.  
She also did not believe that STB had been unfair in the way it required verification of Mr R 
in order to complete his fixed rate bond application. She said that if Mr R wanted to 
understand the information held about him by a third party credit reference agency, hed 
need to contact that agency  and STB was not unreasonable to have told Mr R that.  
However, she did believe that STB had made some errors with its customer service and 
administration. In addition to the issues STB had accepted (that being access by 
smartphone and Mr Rs information request regarding the calls), she also found that Mr R 
had to chase STB on a number of matters including regarding his verification documents, 
and the complaint itself as issues continued to arise after the first complaint. Taking 
everything in the round, she felt STBs offer of £80 for the inconvenience caused ought to be 
increased to £150.  
Finally, the investigator noted that there had been a mix up when Mr R had applied for the 
bonds. Rather than attempting to hold two 3 year fixed rate bonds (which could not be 
permitted in accordance with STBs terms), she said that he had tried to apply for another 4 
year fixed rate bond alongside the three year one  and this was permissible. She felt this 
had not been made clear during the calls Mr R placed to STB and that it ought to be put right 
now.  
The investigator therefore proposed that the 4 year bond be opened now, with retrospective 
interest applied.  
STB agreed to pay the proposed increased figure for the upset Mr R had been caused but it 
did not agree that it could set up a 4 year bond as if it had been applied for in December 
2019. It could not recreate that application retrospectively as suggested and its system 
would not permit that. Its call handler had mistakenly referred to the applications as a 4 year 
bond and a 3 year bond, but this was incorrect. However, Mr R hadnt actually applied for a 4 
year bond in the first place. STB said the £150 compensation proposed was appropriate for 
that mistake, not the creation of a bond that was never sought in the first place. 
Mr R did not make any further comments. The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the complaint, I agree with our investigator that this complaint ought to 
succeed in part.  
In summary, the complaint has arisen after two bond applications were received by STB. 
Those applications were for 3 year fixed rate bonds, not a 3 year bond and a 4 year bond. 
STB has supplied us with a copy of the terms and conditions relating to its fixed rate bonds 
and it is correct that a customer cannot apply for the same product twice.
Unfortunately, this was not made clear to Mr R at the time. In fact, STBs correspondence 
confused matters because its chaser email came through to Mr R on 12 December and that 
prompted him to call STB. 
I recognise that since Mr R made his applications there has been a series of errors which 
have perpetuated his concerns, and this meant that Mr R continued to be dissatisfied with 
STB up until the time he lodged the complaint with this service. Mr R said he lost confidence 
with the manner in which STB dealt with his concerns, primarily because he was kept waiting 
each time he called but also because of how security was addressed and how the call 
handler referred to a 4-year fixed rate bond, which led Mr R into thinking that was what he 
had applied for.   
It is for that reason that Mr R says he seeks compensation now for the inability to take out 
both a 3 year and a 4 year bond at the same time. I havent seen any terms and conditions 
relating to that, and Mr R held one such product with STB already. However, at the time Mr 
R did not apply for a 4 year bond, he applied for two 3 year ones in duplicate. 
STB says that the right compensation for this complaint is not to reconstruct a 4 year bond 
retrospectively and in any event, it cannot process that application because the offer window 
for the product expired on 16 December 2019. 
When a business makes a mistake or an omission, then the right approach for this service is 
to restore a complainant back to the position he or she would have been in but for the 
mistake. The mistake here was the call handlers on 13 and 17 December 2019 did not tell 
Mr R that he could not carry on with applications for two 3 year fixed rate bonds. Instead, it 
created a misunderstanding that he had sought to open two different bonds and it didnt 
clarify that application #548 was cancelled in December 2019 until Mr R was sent the 
complaint outcome in February 2020.  
STB cannot set up or create an application for a 4 year fixed rate bond that wasnt made at 
the time. And Im mindful that Mr R never made that application in the first place. But, the 
confusion around the time of the telephone calls meant that he didnt realise or appreciate 
the extent of the matter until after the offer period for any such application had passed. I 
therefore believe some compensation is warranted for the upset caused to Mr R as he hasnt 
been able to seek to apply for the second bond in December 2019 (if this was something he 
wanted to do) since STB gave him incorrect information about the duplicate applications. In 
my view, that compensation ought to be £150.  
In addition, I agree with our investigators suggestions for a payment to reflect the 
inconvenience Mr R suffered is appropriate  specifically with having to chase STB for his 
bank statement, for the need to place further calls and for the issues STB accepts should be 
upheld relating to his data access requests and smartphone access to his account. I agree 
that a further £150 is warranted for this combined inconvenience. This figure is within the moderate banding of awards we would make of this nature, where a 
person is inconvenienced by administrative errors. We are not the regulator and these 
payments are not a punishment. They are intended to provide some compensation within 
modest banding, based on the upset, trouble, inconvenience or distress caused.  
For completeness, I do not believe that compensation for upset, distress or inconvenience is 
warranted for the call times Mr R experienced. STB has apologised for that and explained 
how it is seeking to improve its processes in relation to customer wait times. Similarly, as our 
investigator explained, I do not accept that Mr R ought to be compensated for processes that 
STB chooses to adopt in relation to verification or security words. It has explained in detail 
why these are used, and I have not seen any clear evidence that these processes are 
unsafe, unfair or unreasonable to adopt. As Ive said above, this service is not the regulator 
(that role falls to the Financial Conduct Authority) and we would ordinarily interfere in how a 
business decides to undertake verification or its internal processes. 
Putting things right
In summary, I can see how matters have been unduly prolonged by STB such that Mr R was 
inconvenienced; STB could have put things right sooner had its call handlers and 
administrative processes been carried out more carefully and efficiently. For that, I believe a 
combined £300 payment is appropriate.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct Secure Trust Bank Plc to pay Mr R £300 in respect of the 
inconvenience he has suffered following his bond applications in December 2019. 
I make no further award.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021. 
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman