DRN-4195484
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank PLC handled things after he fell victim to a scam.
Background
In May 2022, Mr B fell victim to an investment scam. In total, he lost a little over £5,000. 
Lloyds has since reimbursed these losses, but Mr B remains unhappy about the way it 
handled things and argues that it caused him distress and inconvenience.
Once he realised that hed fallen victim to a scam, he contacted Lloyds. This was in 
September 2022. Hed argued that he was entitled to a refund of his losses under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
On 6 October, Lloyds issued its response. It took quite a narrow interpretation and argued 
that Mr Bs losses werent covered by that legislation. Nonetheless, it agreed that it hadnt 
provided a particularly good level of service to him when he reported the scam. In 
acknowledgement of that, it paid him £50 compensation.
Mr B was unhappy with that reply and reiterated his position to Lloyds. It reviewed his case 
again. It recognised that hed fallen victim to a scam and so agreed to refund his losses. It 
didnt offer him any additional compensation.
Mr B remained unhappy and so he referred his complaint to our service. It was allocated to 
an Investigator who asked Lloyds to provide its file. At this point, it accepted that it couldve 
handled the case better. It agreed to pay him an additional £150 in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience that hed experienced. It also refunded two fees that were charged to his 
account in connection with the scam payments.
The Investigator thought Lloyds offer was fair. Mr B disagreed. He explained that the scam 
happened at a time when he was under considerable pressure as the sole earner in a 
household with several dependents. Hed been made redundant, his wife was pregnant and 
he, understandably, felt under a great deal of pressure at the time. In view of those 
difficulties, he didnt think that Lloyds offer of compensation was enough. 
As Mr B disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has already refunded the money Mr B lost to the scam and the fees he had to pay in 
connection with this payments. As a result, the only issue I have to consider is whether its 
offer of £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it caused him is fair and 
reasonable.
I dont doubt that Mr B has suffered a great deal of distress as a result of what happened. 
His personal circumstances were a source of considerable pressure and he must have felt 
an enormous weight of responsibility to support his family. When considering such an award 
on a case like this one, I must bear in mind that most of the distress wasnt caused by 
Lloyds. It was instead caused by whoever perpetrated the fraud to which he fell victim.
I agree that Lloyds couldve handled things better than it did. When it first looked at his 
complaint, it applied too narrow an interpretation. It shouldve thought more broadly about 
the fact that Mr B had fallen victim to a scam, rather than merely focusing on the fact that 
hed framed his complaint in respect of his rights under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The 
consequence of that was that it rejected his case when it ought to have been upheld. I also 
acknowledge that there were administrative errors that meant it was more difficult for him to 
report the scam and provide Lloyds with the relevant evidence than it should have been. 
However, its error in assessing his complaint in the way it did was corrected with reasonable 
promptness. From what Ive seen, Mr B was reimbursed around two months later than he 
shouldve been. For an error of this kind, Im satisfied that £200 represents fair 
compensation. I understand that it has already paid this to Mr B and so it doesnt need to do 
anymore here.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman