DRN-3323921
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) to transfer 
the benefits from his preserved defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In 2017 in response to an advert, Mr M approached Portal to discuss his pension and 
retirement needs. 
Portal completed a fact-find during a telephone-based appointment to gather information 
about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. Portal also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms 
attitude to risk, which it deemed to be moderately adventurous  a score of 12 on a scale of 
0-14.
In December 2017, Portal advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and 
invest the proceeds in an investment portfolio comprising three funds  a mix of equities, 
fixed-interest securities and cash. The suitability report set out the reasons for the 
recommendation, which can be summarised as:
To provide Mr M with flexibility and a pension that could adapt to his changing needs 
and circumstances in the future;
To maximise tax-free cash to meet Mr Ms objective; 
To offer greater choice and flexibility of death benefits;
To provide Mr M with ownership and control of his pension; and
To provide the opportunity for growth through Mr Ms willingness to take on 
investment risk.
In 2021 Mr M, through a representative, complained to Portal about the suitability of the 
transfer advice. He said he had no investment experience and questions why Portal 
recommended the transfer given this and because the critical yield required would be difficult 
to achieve given his attitude to risk. He says Portal should have refused to take on the 
business rather than going ahead and making a recommendation.
Portal didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It sent Mr M an 18-page letter explaining its decision. I 
havent repeated all of this here because both parties are aware of its contents. 
But in summary it said that it considered Mr Ms circumstances, his objectives for a lump 
sum for the purpose of home improvements and to reduce his outstanding mortgage and it 
made a suitable recommendation to transfer based on this having also considered the 
alternatives available to him. It said it believed there was a good chance of pension growth 
because it deemed the hurdle rate could be exceeded given the past performance of the 
investments recommended. Overall it said Mr M had received suitable advice.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. And investigator upheld the complaint and 
required Portal to pay compensation. In summary they said the critical yield required to 
match Mr Ms benefits in his existing scheme was too high given the relevant discount rate at 
the time and given Mr Ms attitude to risk  albeit they didnt think a moderately adventurous 
attitude to risk was an appropriate assessment of the risk they thought Mr M was willing to 
take. They disagreed with Portals argument that the hurdle or growth rate of 3.6% was a 
more realistic measure of viability because they said there was no evidence that Mr M 
needed flexibility of income. And given it was his only source of income in retirement, they 
didnt think hed want to risk giving it up. 
They said that Mr Ms objective of wanting to repay his mortgage couldnt happen because 
his mortgage was subject to a redemption penalty, something Portal hadnt considered in 
giving its advice. And because Mr Ms home improvements cost less than the remaining sum 
of tax-free cash, hed spent it on luxury items and put some in savings. They said if Portal 
had properly established Mr Ms needs, it wouldnt have recommended he transfer, which 
they said Mr M wouldve likely accepted.
Portal disagreed. In doing so it repeated much of what it said in its final response letter to Mr 
M. Overall it said the advice was suitable because it met Mr Ms documented objectives and 
because it believed the hurdle or growth rate was achievable given Mr Ms desire for 
flexibility of income withdrawal. It said there were no viable alternatives available to Mr M 
and so a correct recommendation was made - Mr M has not been financially disadvantaged 
as a result of the transfer. Finally it disagreed with the investigator that it was for it to 
consider whether Mr Ms mortgage had any redemption penalties  it says it assumed Mr M 
had investigated this himself and it was entitled to rely on the information Mr M provided as 
being accurate.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, the complaint was 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. My reasoning is set out below. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable.
So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Ms best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence 
available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Portal says the advice to transfer out of Mr Ms DB scheme was in his best interests  it says 
it was suitable and appropriate for his needs and circumstances.The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17 /9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld.  Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
 
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017 and is 3.4% per year for seven years to retirement. The 
share returns that were used to compile this discount rate wouldnt have been significantly 
different by the time of transfer and, if anything, the bond returns would have got lower. So, I 
think it still gives an approximate guide to the upper end of potential future returns.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
The critical yield required to match Mr Ms benefits at age 65 was 14.2% if he took a full 
pension and 11.8% if he took a tax-free lump sum and a reduced pension.
 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
recorded attitude to risk as a moderately adventurous and also the term to retirement.
In my view there would be little point in Mr M giving up the guarantees available to him 
through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here, taking the most likely option of Mr M taking tax-free cash and a reduced 
pension, the critical yield was 11.8%. This figure was significantly higher than both the 
regulators middle and upper projection rates  it was also more than three times higher than 
the discount rate. And while I have some concerns about how Portal arrived at classifying Mr 
M as a moderately adventurous investor given his apparent lack of any real investment 
experience and the term to retirement, even if I thought this was the level of risk Mr M was 
prepared to take with his pension, I think it was clear he was likely to receive benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value than his DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in 
line with that attitude to risk. 
Because the required sustained growth rate was more than three times the discount rate, I 
think it is clear the transfer was not compatible with Mr Ms attitude to risk. To have come 
close to achieving the level of growth required, in my view would have required Mr M to take 
significant investment risk, which was far greater than his recorded appetite. And even then I 
think its more likely than not that Mr M would have been worse off financially at retirement if 
he transferred out. I think the term to retirement was also a limiting factor here.
I can see Portal says the hurdle or growth rate is more appropriate in this case, which is 
what the adviser based their advice on. This is because Mr M said he preferred the idea of a 
flexible drawdown as opposed to an annuity to generate his pension income, which is what 
the critical yield figure assumes. It seems to me that Portal is implying the relevance of the 
critical yield figure was limited in this case.
But I dont think the importance of the critical yield figures should have been downplayed by 
the adviser, which I think is what happened here. The regulator required Portal to provide the 
rates of return required to replicate the benefits available to Mr M through his DB scheme. So, telling Mr M it wasnt really relevant to him undermined the analysis the regulator 
required it to undertake. And I think given the high critical yield figures in Mr Ms case, these 
should have acted as a clear sign that Mr M ought to retain his DB scheme and that 
transferring out was not likely to be in his best interests.
Overall, I think Portal ought to have told Mr M it wasnt in his best interests to transfer out of 
the DB scheme because I think its clear that he would be worse off financially if he did so. 
And for this reason alone, I dont think the advice to transfer out was suitable. Of course 
financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. I accept there might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility  access to tax-free cash and income needs
Mr Ms objective and the reason for the recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme 
was to access his tax-free cash to make home improvements and to reduce his mortgage.
But I dont think this was a suitable reason to recommend the transfer. I say this because 
firstly and crucially in my view, the adviser did not establish how much money Mr M really 
needed to achieve his plans  it was simply based on him accessing the maximum tax-free 
cash based on the transfer value. From what I can see Mr M didnt need this amount of 
money - he told us the home improvements he made cost no more than £10,000. And as for 
repaying his mortgage, it turned out that Mr M couldnt do this because of an early 
redemption penalty  so he used the extra monies to purchase some luxury items and to add 
to his savings. 
I think Portal should have better understood the details of Mr Ms mortgage before it went 
ahead and made a recommendation for Mr M to transfer out of his DB pension scheme for 
the purpose of repaying his mortgage. Portal didnt know Mr Ms outstanding mortgage 
balance or the terms of the mortgage - so importantly it didnt consider whether it was 
possible for Mr M to repay his mortgage early and whether early redemption penalties might 
apply. Portal says it assumed that Mr M would have checked this beforehand with his 
mortgage lender and says the rules permit it to rely on the information its given by a client. 
But the information Portal had about Mr Ms mortgage was incomplete  so I dont think it 
was in a position to make a suitable recommendation. At the very least I wouldve expected 
the adviser to have told Mr M to go away and check this information with his mortgage 
lender before recommending he go ahead with an irreversible decision to transfer out of his 
DB scheme. By not doing this and assuming that Mr M had already obtained this information 
was not, in my view acting in Mr Ms best interests.
In any event, its not clear to me why Mr M needed to repay his mortgage at this stage. Just 
because Mr M thought it was a good idea didnt mean Portal had to execute what he thought 
he needed  it was Portals role to decide what was in his best interests. Its recorded that Mr 
M said his mortgage payment was manageable and Ive not seen anything to suggest 
otherwise. In my view the mortgage was likely subject to a low rate of interest given interest 
rates had been at historic lows for some time.
And Mr M wasnt planning on retiring any time soon  so he couldve continued to service 
the debt from his earned income. Given this, Im not persuaded there was a need for Mr M to 
repay the debt at this stage and certainly no pressing need to access his tax-free cash 
earlier than his schemes normal retirement age to achieve it. I see no reason why Mr M 
couldnt have waited and used his tax-free cash from his DB scheme at his normal 
retirement age if a balance remained outstanding on his mortgage at this time.So on the basis that Mr Ms only viable objective at the time was to access a lump sum for 
home improvements  and for an amount of no more than £10,000 - I wouldve expected the 
adviser to have properly explored the alternatives available to him. In my view a loan or 
further advance to his mortgage was a realistic possibility for Mr M. And while I can see the 
suitability report says lending was discussed but discounted by Mr M because he didnt want 
to take on further lending or pay any interest, Im not persuaded these were fully considered 
given the lack of consideration for the amount of money Mr M truly needed. 
I think greater emphasis should have been placed on this as a means to achieve Mr Ms 
goal. Mr M had no other debts, interest rates were low at this time and given the poorly 
completed budget planner and lack of meaningful detail, Im not persuaded it was 
reasonable for Portal to arrive at the conclusion that Mr M didnt have any disposable income 
he couldve used to service a loan. Im not persuaded that Mr Ms objective couldnt have 
reasonably been met this way rather than recommending he make an irreversible decision to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal arrangement to help achieve it.
The other reason Portal gave for the recommendation to transfer was to provide greater 
flexibility in how Mr M took future income  he didnt want to buy an annuity. But I cant see 
that Mr M had a strong, if any need for variable income through his retirement. Mr Ms future 
income needs werent known at the time  he had no plans to retire any time soon - so I 
dont know how he couldve decided this. Furthermore, if Mr M did in fact have a need for 
flexibility in retirement, I think this couldve been explored closer to his intended retirement 
age, which was still several years away.
Overall Im not persuaded Mr Ms need for flexibility was a real objective  I think it was 
simply a consequence of transferring out to a different arrangement to meet Mr Ms need for 
access to cash.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension arrangement was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Portal 
established the extent to which Mr M was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr M 
was married - so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to 
his spouse if Mr M predeceased her. I dont think Portal made the value of this benefit clear 
enough to Mr M. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, 
Portal should not have encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
While Im mindful that Mr M was 57 at the time, if he genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for 
his spouse, which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund 
remained on his death, I think Portal shouldve instead explored life insurance. This didnt 
have to be a whole of life policy with a sum assured for the full transfer value, which given Mr 
Ms age might have been costly. The starting point ought to have been to ask Mr M how 
much he wanted to leave to his family, and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or 
term assurance basis, which I consider was likely to be cheaper to provide. Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension arrangement justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And I dont 
think that insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Ownership and control
I think Mr Ms documented desire for ownership and control over his pension benefits was 
overstated. Mr M was not an experienced investor and Ive seen nothing to show or suggest  
that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his 
own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr M  it was simply a 
consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Summary
I dont doubt that the immediate availability of tax-free cash, flexibility, control and the 
potential for higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension arrangement would 
have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But Portal wasnt there to just transact what 
Mr M might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr M 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income to meet one objective which turned out not to 
be viable and the other that in my view with better advice and consideration could likely have 
been achieved through other means such as a form of borrowing. And this wouldve been far 
preferable to Mr M giving up his only guaranteed retirement income. By transferring, Mr M 
was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no compelling 
reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.
So, I think Portal shouldve advised Mr M to remain in his DB scheme.
I now need to consider whether Mr M wouldve gone ahead anyway, against Portals advice.
Having done so, I dont think Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring out of his DB scheme 
and gone head in any event. I say this because Mr M was not in my view an experienced 
investor, despite Portals classification of his attitude to risk which might suggest otherwise. 
So I think he relied solely on the advice he was given. At the time this pension was the 
primary source of Mr Ms guaranteed future retirement provision. So, if Portal had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt 
suitable for him, and if it had explained that Mr M should explore alternative sources of 
funding for his home improvement objective and not risk his guaranteed pension to do so, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. I think Mr M wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My understanding is that Mr M could access the benefits from his pension scheme at 65. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally requirePortal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman