DRN-2841835
The complaint
This is a complaint that Mortgages Direct Limited mis-sold Mr D payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2004.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr D says that the Mortgages Direct adviser use hard sell tactics and used 
scaremongering advice by strongly recommending that I take out the policy. 
The problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth having and it 
is clear the customer has a choice. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no 
real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be 
sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say Mortgages Direct did something 
wrong unless I had stronger evidence of this. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
I think Mortgages Direct recommended the PPI to Mr D, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Ds 
particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation would have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Ds situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr D was eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr D received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr D would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means he may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mr D in a more secure 
position, if hed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest he couldnt afford the PPI when he took it out. 
And Mr D could have cancelled the policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr D would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr D to decide whether he wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI. 
And Mr D made several successful claims on the policy, and so it clearly did prove to be 
useful to him.
Its hard to know how well Mortgages Direct explained all the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made 
a difference to whether or not Mr D took the PPI. I say this because, in his circumstances, 
its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
Its possible Mortgages Direct didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr D would have been affected by any of these. And hed be paying for it 
monthly, so he could cancel it at any time without further cost if his situation changed.
Mr D has raised concerns about non-disclosed commission Mortgages Direct may have 
earned in selling the PPI. He believes that the Plevin judgement, which is about commission 
payments that lenders received for selling PPI, is applicable to his case. However, I can 
confirm that the Plevin judgement, and the associated rules, do not apply to this case. This is 
because that ruling doesnt apply when it wasnt the lender who sold the PPI. In Mr Ds case, 
it was Mortgages Direct who sold the PPI to Mr D, but it was a different organisation that 
actually lent him the mortgage money.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman