DRN-3980421
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they have been charged too much interest on their Together 
unsecured loan. Their lender is now NRAM Limited (NRAM).
What happened
In October 2005 Mr and Mrs C took out a Together mortgage with Northern Rock. They
took out a mortgage for £72,225 over a 35-year term. There also took out an unsecured loan
for £19,936. The initial rate on both the secured and unsecured loan was 5.89% until the 1
January 2011. After that the interest on both loans reverted to NRAM's standard variable
rate (SVR).
In 2008, Northern Rock collapsed and was later nationalised. Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage and
loan were transferred to NRAM.
In 2014 Mr and Mrs C decided to move to a new home. They decided to purchase their new
property with a mortgage from another lender. When this happened their Together mortgage
was redeemed. However they werent in a position to redeem their unsecured loan at the
same time. So the unsecured loan remained with NRAM.
When the mortgage was repaid in 2014, an interest rate premium of 5% above the variable
rate Mr and Mrs C had been paying began to apply to their unsecured loan. The unsecured
loan is still running, and the interest rate premium has been applied since 2014.
Mr and Mrs C separated in June 2017. As part of an informal - but later formalised -
arrangement Mrs C took responsibility for paying the unsecured loan. Mrs C is unhappy with
the amount of interest she has paid on the unsecured loan.
Mrs C complained to NRAM in 2018. She said shed paid over £16,000 towards the
unsecured loan and offered NRAM £6,000.00 to settle it. She told NRAM money was tight as
she was going through a divorce and she didnt think the interest rate she was paying was
fair. At that stage the interest rate on the loan was 10.04% and the unsecured loan balance
was more than £12,800. NRAM declined Mrs Cs offer saying she needed to repay the
balance of the loan in full to settle the loan. It said the interest rates that would apply to the
mortgage and unsecured loan were set out clearly in the relevant agreements and it had
done nothing wrong.
So Mrs C complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She said the amount of interest
NRAM is applying to her unsecured loan is excessive and unfair. She said she wanted to
consolidate her debts but didnt want to do that until this issue has been resolved as she
didnt want to borrow more than was necessary.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He didnt think NRAM acted
fairly when it applied the 5% interest rate premium. He thought that NRAM should strike out
the relevant term in the unsecured loan agreement so that the 5% increase to the interest
rate on the unsecured loan is no longer applied going forward. He also thought that NRAM
should refund the additional interest rate premium (over and the interest rate that would have
applied if the mortgage had remained with NRAM). He said Mr and Mrs C should be offered
the choice of whether they'd like their Together Loan to be reworked and the 'overpayments'
be applied to reduce the balance of the loan or have them paid back to them. He said that if
Mr and Mrs C choose to have the overpayments refunded to them, it should be paid with 8%
simple interest.
Mrs C agreed with our investigator, but NRAM didnt. So the complaint has been passed to
me to decide. NRAM said:
it thought the interest rate loading term was fair. It provided a number of reasons for
this.
Mr and Mrs C were given the information they were required to be sent at the time
they entered into the mortgage and the unsecured loan in 2005. It thinks its unfair to
apply current regulatory standards when considering that information. It thinks the
documentation Mr and Mrs C were provided with was transparent and prescriptive
about exactly what will happen and when.
It thought that Mr and Mrs C could have paid off most of the unsecured loan when
they moved around 2014 but chose not to do so. NRAM says the mortgaged property
sold for £80,000. Mr and Mrs C paid off their mortgage with £65,963.39 and the
balance of the unsecured loan at that time was £14,567.23. It says Mr and Mrs C
went on to buy a new home for £187,500 through a Help to Buy scheme. That
scheme required a 5% deposit (£9,375) so it says it would still have been possible to
pay off some of the unsecured debt at that time  even after choosing to get a new
mortgage for almost double the amount of their previous one.
Mrs C told NRAM on the phone that before she moved home into 2014 shed been in
conversation with Mr C for over two years about delinking the account. So NRAM
thinks Mr and Mrs C were aware what that would mean for them in relation to the
interest rate.
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to a different conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is about the 5% interest rate premium which has been applied to
the unsecured loan since 2014. This premium has resulted in Mr and Mrs C paying interest
at a much higher rate than they had been used to while their mortgage was in place. Our
investigator thought that it was arguable that the interest rate loading term was an unfair
contract term.
However, having considered the relevant documentation and what NRAM have said, Im not
persuaded that the 5% premium or the overall rate were inherently unfair. Ill explain why.
The mortgage offer and unsecured loan agreement issued in 2005 set out what would
happen to the interest rate on the unsecured loan if the secured and unsecured loans were
delinked. The mortgage offer said, at section 12, that if Mr and Mrs C took the £19,936
unsecured loan which was available to them:
There are no Early Repayment Charges for this unsecured borrowing. However, if the
secured mortgage is transferred to another Northern Rock product or repaid in full, the rate
of interest charged for the unsecured loan will increase to 5.00% above the current standard
variable rate for mortgages. This would make the interest rate payable 11.59% based on
current interest rates.The fixed-sum unsecured loan agreement also set out what would happen to the interest
rate on the unsecured loan if the secured and unsecured loans were delinked. It said:
If you are not or cease to be a Borrower with us under the Mortgage, (or transfer to a new
mortgage product with us, or enter into a new mortgage with us) a variable rate which will be
5.00% above our Standard Variable Rate will apply to this agreement.
I think the documents set out clearly the circumstances in which the premium would apply.
So I find that the contract entitled the lender to apply an extra 5% interest above its standard
variable rate if the loans delinked.
In his view of this complaint our investigator said why he thought it was arguable that the
interest rate loading term was an unfair contract term. In summary he said:
it's difficult to see that it represents the costs to NRAM;
the reasons for the increase in the interest rate werent set out in the unsecured loan
agreement, mortgage offer or mortgage terms and conditions that Mr and Mrs C were
provided when the loan and mortgage was entered into.
the consequences of this clause werent prominently drawn to Mr and Mrs C's
attention when they got the mortgage and loan.
NRAM responded by setting out the how the interest rate loading term took into account its
costs and its additional risks when the mortgage and unsecured loan delinked. It also said
that the documentation it sent, and the level of explanation it included was compatible with
the regulatory regime at the time. It didnt think it would be fair to apply current regulatory
standards to products taken out in 2005.
Ive carefully considered what NRAM has said about its costs and taken account of the
additional risks to the lender when an unsecured Together loan is delinked from the
mortgage. Im satisfied that there are some risks, such as the risk of default being higher on
an unsecured debt than a priority mortgage debt. And I note there are no early repayment
charges or other barriers to exit should Mr and Mrs C look to move the loan elsewhere onto
more favourable terms or should they be in a position to repay it.
Ive also considered our investigators comment that the consequences of this clause werent
prominently drawn to Mr and Mrs C's attention when they got the mortgage and loan. Im
conscious that the mortgage and unsecured loan were sold by a broker in 2005. So the
broker would have been responsible for the sale. However, Ive considered the mortgage
and unsecured loan agreements that Mr and Mrs C agreed to. I think the clauses set out
above were set out clearly in relatively short agreements. I also think that the lender 
Northern Rock at the time  could reasonably expect Mr and Mrs C to look at the
documentation they were sent at the time of the sale. Im not persuaded that it was required
at the time the agreements were made to set out (in the mortgage and loan agreements) the
reasons for the increase in the interest rate if the secured and unsecured loans were
delinked.
So I think the circumstances in which the premium would apply were clear in the mortgage
and loan documents.
However, thats not the end of the matter. I must also consider the fairness of the lenders
decision to apply the increased interest rate in Mr and Mrs Cs particular circumstances.
Mrs C says she took full responsibility for paying off the unsecured loan when she separated
from Mr C. She says she feels stuck paying the unsecured loan (with the interest rate
loading term) and thinks that if Northern Rock had still been trading she might have been
able to refinance with that at a lower interest rate. She told us that she felt she had no other
option but to pay the increased interest rate when she moved home in 2014. By that timeshed been told that NRAM was unable to lend her more money. She says shed just had a
mortgage approved (with the new lender). So she didnt want to apply for another loan in
case that application was rejected and there was a negative effect on her credit score.
I appreciate Mrs Cs frustration that following Northern Rocks collapse and subsequent
nationalisation, it wasnt able to offer new lending or new interest rate products to its existing
customers. This, of course, isnt a situation that Mr and Mrs C could have foreseen when
they took out the Together product in 2005, and I can certainly see that they were left with
fewer options than they expected when they wanted to move home. However, there was
never any guarantee that Northern Rock would continue to offer new interest rate products
or agree to further lending.
Ive considered what Mrs C has told us about what happened when she moved home in
2014. Im not persuaded that its fair to say that Mr and Mrs C had no choice but to repay the
secured part of their Together borrowing and take a new mortgage with another lender just
because their existing lender was closed book and no longer offered new products or
lending. Ultimately they chose to move home in 2014 and borrow significantly more money
to do so. Mr and Mrs C did that in the knowledge that they would pay more interest on their
unsecured loan. As NRAM has suggested, it seems that even bearing in mind the 5%
deposit they needed to pay to purchase their new home in 2014, Mr and Mrs C were still in a
position to pay off some of the unsecured loan at that time, had they chosen to do so.
Mr and Mrs Cs unsecured loan has been on the higher interest rate since 2014  around 8
years  and they still owe a significant sum, so I can understand why they want this matter
resolved. But its not clear from what Mrs C has told us whether she has tried to refinance
the unsecured loan over the years and been unable to do so. Mrs C hasnt told us of
attempts to do this and when our investigator mentioned this option to Mrs C she said she
wanted to wait and see how much money she would need to borrow after we had resolved
this complaint before attempting to do that. She told our investigator she still hoped NRAM
would agree to let her settle the unsecured loan for £6,000  something it has declined to do.
So while I appreciate Mrs Cs desire to only borrow the minimum amount she needs to
consolidate her debts, Im not persuaded that she has been trapped with this unsecured
borrowing over the period of time since the loan was delinked (since 2014). I could only
come to that conclusion they were trapped if I thought that she had had no option but to
repay the unsecured despite feeling that the interest rate plus the additional premium was
too high.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded - even taking Northern Rocks collapse into account
 that it would be fair and reasonable for me to say that the relationship between Mr and Mrs
C and NRAM was unfair. I say that because I cant see that theyve acted to try and
refinance the loan at a lower interest rate/mitigate their financial loss and reduce their
interest payments beyond asking NRAM if it would be willing to settle the unsecured loan for
£6,000  less than half the outstanding balance of the unsecured loan at the time.
I appreciate that Mrs C feels that she has paid enough towards the loan and was frustrated
that NRAM declined her settlement offer. But NRAM wasnt required to accept her offer. It is
allowed to use its commercial judgement to decide how much it was willing to settle the loan
for.
For completeness I will also say here that I think NRAM could have done more to engage
with Mrs C after she asked it to accept £6,000 to settle the unsecured loan. As Mrs C said
she had that money available I think it should have had a discussion with her about whether
she could use that money to partially repay the loan balance. Then NRAM would have been
in a position where it was able to consider restructuring Mr and Mrs Cs monthly repayments.NRAM didnt do that. However, Im not persuaded that has an impact on the outcome of this
complaint.
Conclusion
I have some sympathy for why Mr and Mrs C think the interest rate on the unsecured loan at
the increased rate does not offer good value for money. I can also understand why they are
unhappy that the additional 5% was triggered when  upon Northern Rock being
nationalised - they were left with fewer options than they would originally have anticipated
would be open to them when they moved home in 2014. But I dont think thats enough to
say that NRAM have acted unfairly or unreasonably in adding the additional 5% in the
circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C are likely to be very disappointed this decision. For
completeness I think its helpful for me to say here that if they are now struggling with rising
interest costs on the unsecured loan, they may wish to take advantage of debt advice to
explore their options now and ways that they can restructure their borrowing going forward to
reflect the changing economic outlook. Our investigator can provide details of such services
if that would be useful for Mr and Mrs C.
The responses to my provisional decision
NRAM responded to say that it didnt have any comments on my provisional decision.
Mrs C said she was very unhappy with my provisional decision. She made a number of 
points that Ive considered below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also reconsidered what I said in my provisional decision with particular reference to 
Mrs Cs response to it. However, I remain of the view that NRAM doesnt need to do 
anything to resolve this complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision. Ill also 
comment on Mrs Cs response to my provisional decision.
Mrs C seems to accept that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to apply regulatory 
standards that are in force today to agreements she entered into in 2005. However, she says 
that the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract Regulations 1999 and MCOB 2.2.6R were 
applicable in 2005 when the Together mortgage and loan were taken out and are applicable 
in this case.
I agree that the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract Regulations 1999 and MCOB 2.2.6R 
were applicable when the Together mortgage and loan were taken out in 2005. However, 
I dont think that has an impact on my reasoning in this complaint. As I said in my provisional 
decision, Im not persuaded that the 5% premium or the overall interest rate were inherently 
unfair. I say that because the mortgage offer and unsecured loan agreement set out what 
would happen to the interest rate on the unsecured loan if the secured and unsecured loans 
were delinked. In other words, the documents set out clearly the circumstances in which the 
interest rate premium would apply. So I remain of the view that the contract entitled the 
lender to apply an extra 5% interest above its standard variable rate if the loans delinked.
As I said in my provisional decision Ive carefully considered what NRAM has said about its 
costs and taken account of the additional risks to the lender when an unsecured Together loan is delinked from the mortgage. I remain satisfied that there were some risks, such as 
the risk of default being higher on an unsecured debt than a priority mortgage debt. And I 
note there were no early repayment charges or other barriers to exit should Mr and Mrs C 
have looked to move the loan elsewhere on more favourable terms or if theyd been in a 
position to repay it.
Ive also considered our investigators comment that the consequences of this clause werent
prominently drawn to Mr and Mrs C's attention when they got the mortgage and loan. As I 
said above, I remain of the view that the clauses that set out what would happen if the 
secured and unsecured loans were delinked were set out clearly in relatively short 
agreements. I also remain of the view that the lender  Northern Rock at the time  could 
reasonably expect Mr and Mrs C to look at the documentation they were sent at the time of 
the sale. Im still not persuaded that it was required at the time the agreements were made to 
set out (in the mortgage and loan agreements) the reasons for the increase in the interest 
rate if the secured and unsecured loans were delinked.
So I think the circumstances in which the premium would apply were clear in the mortgage
and loan documents.
Mrs C says I was wrong to assume she and Mr C were in a position to pay off the unsecured 
loan after they redeemed their mortgage in 2014. She didnt go into specifics about her 
circumstances at the time. Instead she said that when I considered the price she sold the 
mortgaged property for, and the price of the property she purchased in 2014 I didnt consider 
additional factors such as stamp duty, legal fees, moving costs, having a child or additional 
financial constraints.
I appreciate that I didnt go into all the possible costs that Mr and Mrs C might have had to 
consider in 2014 in my provisional decision, or all their reasons for doing so. Mr and Mrs C 
havent shared that information with me in any detail, so Im simply not in a position to 
consider that. I accept there would have been costs associated with the sale beyond the 
purchase price of the property they were buying. However, I remain of the view that 
ultimately they chose to move home in 2014 and borrow significantly more money to do so  
even when they knew that they would pay more interest on their unsecured loan. In the 
circumstances, Im still not persuaded that its fair to say that Mr and Mrs C had no choice 
but to act as they did in 2014. 
Mrs C suggested that NRAM should have engaged with her/made her a counteroffer after 
she offered to settle the unsecured loan for £6,000. As I said in my provisional decision, I 
think NRAM could have done more on this point. Even if it was unwilling to accept £6,000 to 
settle the debt I think it could have had a discussion with her about whether she could use 
that money to partially repay the loan balance. But the responsibility was also on 
Mr and Mrs C to manage their finances. As I said in my provisional decision, NRAM wasnt 
required to accept Mrs Cs offer or make her a counteroffer. In the circumstances I would 
expect her to ty to refinance the unsecured loan with another lender if she thought the 
interest rate on it was too high. But Mrs C hasnt told us of any attempts to do this, even after 
our investigator suggested that she did that.
Mrs C also feels that Ive overlooked certain provisions of the unsecured loan agreement. 
She says the loan agreement has been assigned on more than one occasion and shes 
unhappy about that. Theres no dispute that her unsecured loan debt has been assigned to 
NRAM after Northern Rock collapsed. But I dont think theres anything in the agreement to 
say that wasnt possible. The assignment clause Mrs C has referred to says:
We may assign or transfer our rights and/or our obligations under this agreement.Mrs C also refers to the following wording in the unsecured loan agreement:
If any provision of this agreement is or becomes invalid, illegal or unenforceable it
shall be deemed severable from and shall not affect the validity of the other provisions.
Mrs C says she disputes the legality of the continual interest rate hikes, and the ability of 
NRAM and the other successor lenders to benefit from the agreement she entered into with 
Northern Rock.
I dont underestimate Mrs Cs strength of feeling about this issue but I think its worth me 
pointing out that Ive seen nothing to suggest that NRAM wasnt able to take responsibility 
her mortgage and unsecured loan legally. I also think its worth me saying here that NRAM 
didnt buy her mortgage from Northern Rock. NRAM was set up following Northern Rocks 
collapse. So I think NRAM was entitled to charge Mr and Mrs C they interest rates it did in 
relation to the unsecured loan. 
Mrs C has suggested that the Financial Ombudsman Service should take action against 
companies that buy debt at reduced rates and ensure that legislation and Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) rules are adhered to. However, my role is to resolve individual complaints 
in a fair and reasonable way. Its not to act as a regulator as Mrs C has suggested. The FCA, 
NRAMs regulator, is responsible for enforcing its rules.
Finally, Mrs C has said that theres litigation pending thats relevant to this complaint. She 
hasnt been clear about exactly what litigation she is referring to or what issues it covers, and 
she accepts that Im not required to take pending litigation into account. However, she wants 
me to consider it anyway. As I said above, I appreciate how strongly she feels about her 
complaint, but it wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider pending litigation that may or 
may not have an impact on this complaint after it is concluded. My role is to resolve this 
complaint in a way thats fair and reasonable, having regard to the relevant law (amongst 
other things). Ive explained how I have done this in detail above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman