DRN-2771286
The complaint
Mr J complains as a director of M, a limited company that The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) delayed dealing with a claim on its business 
protection insurance, then refused to settle the claim and voided the policy.
What happened
The directors of a company took out a business protection policy with NFU in June 2016. 
The policy was renewed in June 2017.
On 18 February 2018 one of the directors of the company called NFU to say they had 
changed the companys name to Ms name and had a new bank account, so they needed to 
update the details for paying the premiums. 
In April 2018 NFU sent a letter to M with details for the renewal of the policy that was due in 
June, and the policy was then renewed again. It was renewed again in In June 2019
In May 2020 there was a large fire at the premises which caused extensive damage. M 
wasnt able to carry on trading and made a claim on the policy for the losses resulting from 
this. NFU carried out an investigation into the circumstances of the fire. Mr J was unhappy 
about how long this took and complained to NFU about delays. In October 2020 NFU wrote 
to M saying it would not be paying out on the claim and had decided to void the policy. 
NFU said its investigations had revealed that there wasnt just a change of name of the 
company  the previous company had entered into administration in February 2018 and M 
was in fact an entirely new company. NFU also said it had found out that county court 
judgments had been entered against the previous company in December 2017. NFU said 
this information should have been disclosed and if it had been, cover would not have 
continued. So it decided to void the policy as from the renewal in June 2018. NFU also said 
it reserved the right to recover any costs incurred. 
In response to Ms complaints about delay, NFU said the delays had been due to its ongoing 
investigations into the claim and the circumstances that led it to void the policy.
When the complaint came to this service, our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said
The documents NFU sent explained that M needed to say immediately if there were 
any changes, including county court judgments, bankruptcy or statutory insolvency.
NFU asked for confirmation of a number of points relating to bankruptcy or 
insolvency, liquidation, arrangements with creditors and court judgements. 
The directors of M had a duty to give a fair presentation of risk and had breached this 
duty by failing to tell NFU that the previous company had entered administration in 
February 2018 and that there had been county court judgments.
In the circumstances NFUs decision to refuse the claim and void the policy was fair, 
as was its decision not to refund the premiums.
Mr J disagreed and on behalf of M, requested an ombudsmans decision. He said NFU had 
referred to the call in February 2018 but there would have been other calls where other 
information was provided. He also said M had made two claims (for smaller amounts) 
between 2018 and 2020 which NFU had paid and he felt NFU was simply looking for 
reasons to reject this claim as the value of the claim was so much higher. 
Our investigator considered these points and sought further comments from NFU but didnt 
change his view. He said smaller claims didnt have the same validation process and there 
hadnt been anything to alert NFU until this claim was made. In any event, he said Ms failure 
to provide accurate information happened in 2018 and in view of that, it was reasonable for 
NFU to void the policy from that renewal. 
Mr J has confirmed he would like an ombudsman to review the complaint. He says 
it isnt fair that NFU can refuse to pay out simply due to the value of the claim;
when they changed the policy from one company to another NFU should have 
reviewed things properly and, if it had done so, things would have sorted out then
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was a commercial policy. Under the relevant law (the Insurance Act 2015) M had a 
legal duty to make a fair presentation of the risk. This means M  or the directors on its 
behalf  had to disclose either 
everything they knew, or ought to have known, that would influence the insurers 
judgment in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or 
enough information to put the insurer on notice that it needed to make further 
enquiries about potentially material circumstances. 
The Insurance Act says the policyholder ought to know what should reasonably have been 
revealed by a reasonable search of information available to them. So the policyholder should 
take reasonable steps to check any available information and consider if theres anything 
they ought to disclose. 
The policy was originally taken out in June 2016 and renewed in June each year up to June 
2019. This duty to give a fair presentation applied when the policy was sold in June 2016 
and each time it was renewed. 
At each renewal, M was asked to provide information about the company and to check that 
all the documents were correct. The documents sent in advance of the renewal explained 
that NFU needed to be told about any changes:
You need to tell us straight away about any changes that might affect your policy. We wont
charge you any admin fees for changes but they might affect the premium or the insurance
cover we offer. If you dont tell us about changes as soon as they happen, you might not be
insured.
These are examples of changes we need to know about:
- County Court Judgements (CCJs), any form of bankruptcy or statutory insolvency
proceedings
These apply to you or anyone insured under this policy.
The documents also asked for confirmation of certain information:
You have told us the following about the business, everyone directly connected withthe ownership or management of the business and everyone insured under this policy:

No-one has ever been subject to any bankruptcy proceedings (whether discharged
or not) e.g. Individual Voluntary Arrangements (IVAs)/Trust Deeds or been subject to 
any other statutory insolvency proceedings e.g. Company Voluntary Arrangements 
(CVAs).
No-one has had any court judgements (e.g. CCJs) in the past five years.
No-one has ever been a director of a company which went into liquidation, was put 
into administration / receivership or subject to arrangements with creditors under 
statute or,
in the last five years, been subject to any court judgements (CCJs).
Finally, the documents explained that failing to provide accurate information could invalidate 
the insurance or result in a claim not being paid.
The policy terms also say:
YOU will not be insured under this policy if:
1 YOUR interest ceases, except by will or operation of law; or
2  there is a change in circumstances, which alters the risk.
YOU are required to tell US of any change of circumstances that arise after the start of this 
insurance. If YOU are not sure whether a change in circumstances needs to be disclosed, 
YOU should disclose it.
Mr J needed to take reasonable care to ensure that, when providing information and 
confirming it was correct, he had disclosed everything he knew that would influence NFUs 
decision or alternatively, enough information to put it on notice it needed to make further 
enquiries. So if he was aware that any of the matters set out above applied, he should have 
let NFU know. 
Ive listened to a recording of the call in February 2018. Mr J says hes calling to update the 
companys bank account details. He then says he wants to get the company name changed. 
Hes transferred to another person to deal with this. He explains to that person that weve 
actually renamed our business. and gives the old name and the new name. He doesnt 
mention that the old business will no longer exist and a new company is being set up  its 
described as simply a change of name.
Mr J should have told NFU that they werent just changing the name of their company  the 
old company had entered into administration and they had set up a new company with a 
different (though very similar) name. The new company was a different legal entity. 
NFU issued the renewal of the policy in the name of the new company but wasnt told it was 
in fact dealing with a different entity, or that the previous company was no longer trading. 
Nor was it aware that county court judgments had been entered.
Im satisfied these were things NFU would have wanted to know about. Taking into account 
the warnings in the documents about disclosing information, and the legal duty M had to 
disclose anything that would influence the insurers decision about offering cover, my 
judgment is that M should have said the old company had entered into administration and a 
new company been set up; and should have told NFU about the county court judgments. 
Mr J says there would have been other calls where other information was provided. We dont 
have details of these. But in any event, he should have provided accurate information in the 
call in February 2018 and at the renewal. With regard to the two claims for smaller amounts between 2018 and 2020, NFU has 
explained that its processes for smaller claims dont require the same level of investigation. 
When this claim was made, because of the amounts involved this triggered further enquiries. 
I think it was reasonable for NFU to approach the claim in this way. And a key point in all of 
this is that its the failure to make a fair presentation of risk that has led to the current 
situation.
Mr J failed to provide accurate information on behalf of M. Im satisfied there was a 
misrepresentation and a breach of the duty to provide a fair presentation of risk.
Under the Insurance Act, NFU has a remedy against the insured for a breach of the duty of 
fair presentation if it shows that, but for the breach, it would have either not have entered into 
the contract of insurance at all, or would only have done so on different terms.
NFU has confirmed that if the correct information had been disclosed, it would have 
cancelled the policy for the old company and would not have provided cover for M. So the 
policy would not have been renewed in June 2018.
As there was a breach of the duty of fair presentation and NFU has shown it wouldnt have 
offered any cover, this is whats known as a qualifying breach.
Where a qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless, the remedies set out in the Insurance 
Act allow NFU to void the policy and refuse any claims, and it doesnt need to return the 
premiums. 
A qualifying breach is deliberate or reckless if the insured knew that it was in breach of the 
duty of fair presentation, or did not care whether or not it was in breach of that duty.
Bearing in mind that the court judgments dated from December 2017  only around two 
months before Mr Js phone call to NFU  and the changes in the company were made at 
that time, there doesnt appear to be any good reason why these werent disclosed at the 
time. Im satisfied that failing to give this information was, if not deliberate, then at the very 
least reckless. 
Taking all of the above into account, my judgment is that NFUs decision was reasonable.
Mr J is unhappy with the time taken to deal with the claim. It did taken some time for NFU to 
set out its position about whether it would cover the claim. But there was a serious incident 
which needed to be investigated. And this led to the issues around the change of the 
company being raised, which in turn had to be investigated. I think it was reasonable for 
NFU to investigate these matters and I dont think there was unnecessary delay doing so. In 
the end NFU decided to refuse the claim and void the policy. Ive set out why I think that 
decision was fair in the circumstances. Even though it took some time to conclude the 
matter, that hasnt affected the outcome since the policy has been deemed void from the 
renewal in 2018.
I appreciate that the outcome of the investigation, on top of the impact of the fire itself, has 
been extremely difficult for those involved with M. But for the reasons given Im satisfied that 
NFUs decision was in line with the policy terms and the relevant law, and was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman