DRN-3035362
The complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of a business, which Ill call U, that Allianz Insurance Plc has 
unfairly dealt with a claim submitted for three separate forced entries onto business 
premises and the thefts which occurred.
 
U is in a Company Voluntary Arrangement (CVA). 
What happened
U suffered three break-ins during November 2017, on 7, 8 and 16 of that month. Allianz 
agreed to settle the claim in relation to the break-ins which occurred on 7 and 8 November 
but not the latter one, as U hadnt put in the additional security measures that Allianz had 
required following the earlier break-ins. 
Mr B complained about the declined claim for the third break-in and that Allianz wouldnt 
release any further business interruption payments. Allianz issued its final response on 26 
June 2018 standing by the claims decisions it had made. 
Following that, Allianz needed further information in order to fully validate and settle the 
claims in relation to the first two break-ins. Loss adjusters and assessors were appointed by 
both parties to validate the claims and identify the losses incurred as a result.  Allianz also 
appointed a forensic accountant to help review what had been provided. After further 
correspondence between the parties, Allianz offered £59,369 which was net of a £20,000 
business interruption payment that had already been made. This was originally offered in 
May 2019 and was finally accepted by U and the insolvency practitioner in November 2019. 
As requested, Allianz provided two acceptance forms for the claim settlements, which were 
signed by Mr B, on behalf of U, on 28 November 2019.  The acceptances were both in full 
satisfaction and discharge of the claims for the break-ins which occurred on 7 and 8 
November 2019. 
Mr B complained again to Allianz about the way the claim had been handled and that the 
claim for the third break-in had been declined. He further complained that he, on behalf of U, 
had felt pressured and forced into accepting the settlements. Allianz refused to consider 
those complaint matters it had already looked into. And it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong in relation to the remainder. 
Our investigator explained we couldnt look at the declination for the claim for break-in 
number three, as the complaint had been referred outside of the six-month referral period. 
She also didnt find that Allianz had avoidably delayed matters following the earlier complaint 
and was satisfied it hadnt forced U to accept the claim settlements. 
Mr B asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary:
The business interruption was being discussed as one claim and so it wasnt 
appropriate for the matter to be referred until discussions with Allianz about the 
claims and the business interruption had completed halted. It wasnt understood this 
could have been referred and he thought it better to work with Allianz. 
He was having to contact Allianz to ensure it was working with his loss assessor and 
it was only on raising the matter with the CEO that an interim payment of £20,000 
was made. Allianz knew it had business interruption liability, but it wasnt willing to 
work with U to ensure it could trade and survive. 
There were long delays and responses which he considers to have been purposefully 
time wasting. This along with a lack of willingness to work with U left U in a place 
where it had no choice but to accept something. Mr B did this knowing he could ask 
us to look into matters as the amount offered does not reflect the quantifiable losses. 
Although I have summarised all of Mr Bs points above, this decision only concerns the 
complaint about any delays and the forced acceptance of the claim settlements. I have 
already decided that Us complaint about the declined claim for the third break-in and further 
business interruption payments to June 2018 fall outside this offices jurisdiction. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B feels very strongly about this complaint. To the extent that he is unhappy 
with the amount of the claim settlement, Im afraid thats not something for us to get involved 
in. On 28 November 2019, Mr B, on behalf of U, signed in settlement of the claims in relation 
to thefts one and two. The settlement forms both said
.in full satisfaction and discharge of all claims for property loss or damage/business 
interruption occasioned by Theft .
So Mr B has already agreed a settlement with the insurer for the losses, damage and 
business interruption caused by those thefts. And as that settlement was in full satisfaction 
and discharge of the claims made, I understand its legally binding and is not something I 
would generally interfere with.  If Mr B wasnt happy with the settlement, he could have 
complained about that and referred to us if necessary, before accepting it. 
Mr B is also unhappy that he felt forced into accepting the settlements due to, what he says, 
was Allianz not co-operating with his loss assessor and delaying matters unfairly. But I can 
see from the correspondence provided that the final offer was made in May 2019. And it 
wasnt accepted until November 2019, six months later. This doesnt strike me as a rushed 
decision, nor I have I been presented with any evidence that Allianz applied undue pressure 
to accept. And taking six months to consider a settlement offer isnt indicative of having little 
or no choice in the matter.  Further, Im mindful that instruction to accept the offer was taken 
from both Mr B and the appointed insolvency practitioner, presumably after discussion and 
careful consideration. And I come back to my previous point that if the offer wasnt 
acceptable, a complaint could have been made, particularly given the length of time between 
offer and acceptance. 
Mr B alleges that Allianz delayed matters and wouldnt co-operate, but Im satisfied from the 
information provided that it was attempting to the validate the claim, something all insurers 
are fairly entitled to do. Here that process was far from straightforward given the number of 
thefts, the settlements in respect of stock and what U was claiming in business interruption. 
Allianz even went so far as to employ the services of a forensic accountant in order to help 
validate what U was claiming. In the circumstances Im not persuaded Allianz unfairly 
delayed matters or wouldnt co-operate such that I would make an award.  I do understand that Mr B is very unhappy with the situation. But having considered the 
matter carefully, I dont uphold the complaint and so I wont be asking Allianz to do anything 
further in relation to it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman