DRN-2882969
The complaint
Miss S complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc settled a claim she made on her motor 
insurance policy.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It isnt for this service to decide who is liable for an accident, however we do look at 
whether the insurer acted reasonably in how they handled the claim
Miss S says she completed and sent back an accident report form with her version of 
events to AXA. AXA said they never received it
The case went to arbitration. Ive seen the notes and outcome of the hearing. It says 
the third party provided a statement and diagram to support their case. Miss S would 
made similar submissions in the form AXA never received, so I can understand why 
she feels her points were not represented fairly
However, the outcome of the arbitration was that liability was decided on a 50/50 
basis as there was a lack of independent evidence, from either party, such as dash 
cam footage or witnesses
Miss S didnt have CCTV footage or witnesses  and I cant see the third partys 
statement or diagram affected the decision of the arbitration. So I think its unlikely 
the information provided by Miss S would have resulted in a different outcome  and 
in any event she wouldve been held partially liable for the claim
AXA accepted they failed to keep Miss S updated on the progress of the claim  and  
they didnt contact her when they didnt receive the form. AXA have offered 
Miss S £250 compensation. Considering the inconvenience this caused I think this is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so I will be making no further award
My final decision
My final decision Is that I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman