DRN-3991921
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Metro Bank PLC wont refund transactions he says he didnt make 
or otherwise authorise.
What happened
Mr D has disputed a series of payments made using his debt card. They were made over the 
course of about two and a half weeks in spring 2022, interspersed with his genuine 
spending. They mostly involved point of sale purchases and cash withdrawals at the same 
places Mr D normally went. The disputed payments totalled about £900.
Mr D explained he felt the spending was too much to be his. He suggested it couldnt have 
been him as he was in hospital. It later turned out that the hospital stay was some time after 
the disputed payments had already finished.
Mr D said he kept his card with him in a wallet or in a cupboard at home. He still had his card 
afterwards, he hadnt noticed it go missing, and nothing else had gone missing from the 
same places. His PIN was not easy to guess, it wasnt recorded anywhere, he hadnt noticed 
anyone watch him enter it, and no one else should know it. He hadnt told anyone his PIN, 
save for his assistant, who used his card for him when he was in hospital  though again, 
that was only after the disputed payments had finished. He felt unable to name anyone he 
knew who he thought couldve done this. There were two people staying with him at the 
time, one who he was certain couldnt and wouldnt have done this, and the other who he felt 
he couldnt fairly accuse.
Metro held Mr D liable for the payments in dispute, though they paid him £40 compensation 
for some customer service issues. Mr D came to our service.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained there was no clear point of compromise for the card and PIN. And the spending 
did not fit with what wed expect from fraud, but did fit with Mr Ds usual spending.
Mr D didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I do understand that Mr D would really like to see the receipts or CCTV from the shops. 
But thats not within our remit. We do not regulate or oversee shops or merchants and were 
not the police. So I do not have the power to requisition Mr Ds receipts or CCTV footage. 
Were here to informally resolve complaints about banks and financial businesses, and in 
this case I can only look into what Metro did, not the merchants.
Broadly speaking, Metro can hold Mr D liable for the payments in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that he authorised them.
I can see from Metros technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Mr Ds genuine 
card, and some wouldve required the correct PIN. So it looks like these payments were 
properly authenticated. The question, then, is whether the evidence suggests that its most 
likely Mr D consented to the transactions, or not.
First, Ive considered the possibility that the payments were made by someone who Mr D 
didnt know  i.e. a third-party thief or fraudster.
The disputed payments were made in between Mr Ds genuine spending. In order for 
someone else to have made them, they would need to have taken Mr Ds card and given it 
back to him at least 14 times. It is not likely or plausible that an unknown thief would be able 
to do this without Mr D noticing. And they would not do so, as returning the card to their 
victim would only limit the amount they could steal while hugely increasing their chances of 
getting caught.
Further, theres no likely or plausible way that a thief couldve learned Mr Ds PIN. He hadnt 
entered his PIN on the day the disputed payments started, so there was no chance for a 
thief to watch him entering it beforehand. It wasnt recorded anywhere and he hadnt told it to 
anyone. And its not realistic that a thief would happen to guess the PIN on the first try. 
So there is not a likely or plausible way that an unknown party did this.
I acknowledge its possible that someone known to Mr D may have made the transactions 
without his permission. And Ive thought carefully about that possibility, too. But I dont think 
I can fairly conclude that its whats most likely to have happened.
It still would have been very difficult for someone known to Mr D to take his card and give it 
back to him so many times without him once noticing them take it, noticing it was missing, or 
noticing them put it back. And some of the disputed payments were made using Mr Ds 
physical card within just a few minutes of his genuine spending on the same physical card. 
That would leave a thief an implausibly small window to take the card, travel to a shop or 
cash machine, use it without Mr D seeing, travel back to him, then replace it in Mr Ds home 
or wallet without him noticing, just in time for Mr D to make his next genuine payment.
Further, some of these payments needed Mr Ds PIN, and it still wouldve been difficult for a 
known party to learn it without his consent. After all, it was not an easy number to guess 
such as his birthday, it wasnt written down anywhere, and Mr D hadnt told it to anyone at 
the time  he only gave his assistant the PIN after this incident. Mr D hadnt used his PIN in 
the immediate time before the disputed payments started, he hadnt noticed anyone watch 
him enter it, and he felt sure no one else wouldve known it.
So it doesnt seem especially likely or plausible that a known party couldve taken and 
replaced the card so many times, and learned Mr Ds PIN, without his consent.
Mr D felt certain that one of the people staying with him couldnt, wouldnt, and didnt make 
the disputed payments. He felt he couldnt fairly accuse the other person. And he felt unable 
to name anyone who he thought couldve done this.Further, I might normally expect a thief to try to withdraw as much money as possible, as 
quickly as possible, before the card is stopped. But the disputed payments were made 
relatively slowly, over the course of many days, and for far lower amounts than were 
available at the time. And nothing else went missing from the same places where Mr D kept 
his card  not even the cash. This does not fit well with the possibility that someone was 
stealing from Mr D.
On the other hand, Ive considered the possibility that the payments were authorised. That 
fits very well with how they were made: using Mr Ds real card and his correct PIN, in 
between his other genuine spending  often only a few minutes before or after another 
genuine payment. While I understand Mr D feels the amounts were too high, they are not 
nearly high enough that Id consider them unusual. And the spending mostly took place at 
the same locations Mr D normally used himself.
Ive listened to Mr Ds calls with Metro, and I note he said himself that he sometimes pays 
travel fares for other people, which might well explain why there were travel payments for 
journeys he doesnt recall. He also accepted that some of the other disputed spending might 
really be his, as he admitted that when looking back at transactions after the fact, he could 
sometimes doubt his own payments.
Mr D initially thought that the disputed spending happened while he was incapacitated in 
hospital. But it then turned out that the hospital stay was after the disputed payments had 
started and ended. I cant rule out that a similar misunderstanding has happened, and that 
Mr D has disputed his own spending by mistake.
Finally, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr D 
couldve authorised these payments or given someone else permission to make them for 
him. Overall, I dont think I have a fair basis on which to conclude that the payments in 
dispute were unauthorised.
Mr D suggested that Metro should have blocked some or all of the disputed spending. But 
while I understand why he might have liked this, Metro didnt have a good reason to block 
these payments. They were made using the genuine card and PIN, for amounts that were far 
too small to flag, in Mr Ds local area, at mostly the same places he usually used himself.
In summary, based on the evidence, there isnt a likely or plausible way that an unknown 
person did this, and its not likely that someone known to Mr D did this without his consent. 
But it does seem likely and plausible that the payments were authorised. So I dont have a 
fair basis on which to tell Metro to refund the payments in dispute. This is a difficult message 
for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr D to receive. But given the evidence 
at hand, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach another conclusion.
Lastly, I understand that Metro caused Mr D some trouble and upset due to some customer 
service issues, such not calling back, and the time taken. I think that the £40 compensation 
they paid is fair to put right that issue.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman