DRN-2194022
The complaint
Mr As complaint is that Avon Insurance Plc mis-sold him an insurance policy which he 
believed offered life cover. However, Mr A has recently discovered the policy only provides 
accidental death benefit. Mr A believes Avon ought to offer the insurance he was promised.
What happened
Mr A applied for his policy in January 2002, alongside his wife who applied separately for the 
same cover. In early 2020, Mr A was sadly diagnosed as terminally ill after having previously 
suffered from a type of cancer. In reviewing his affairs to provide cover for his partner, he 
discovered that his policy provided accidental death cover, not life assurance as he had 
been led to believe.  
The policy was marketed to Mr A through his bank, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
by a direct postal mailing. So initially, Mr A complained to RBS. He said he was advised 
about the policy in person. RBS did not provide a response within eight weeks, so Mr A 
brought the complaint to this service where it was passed to one of our adjudicators. RBS 
said it did not sell the policy to Mr A, nor did it operate it  that responsibility rested with 
Avon. RBS explained that it had sent some information about the policy to Mr A by sending a 
postal marketing leaflet in 2001, but no advice was supplied to Mr A.
Mr A disagreed. He said he took the policy out in a branch of RBS, not through a direct 
mailing.  
Our adjudicator said he did not think the complaint should proceed, as he found that RBS 
was not responsible for the sale of the policy. The insurer was Avon and he said the 
complaint ought to be set up against that business instead.  The adjudicator also noted he 
had seen no evidence of any advice taking place at the time of the sale. 
The RBS complaint was passed to me for a decision, in which I concluded in the absence of 
any evidence of advice in 2002 or any regulated activities undertaken by RBS in relation to 
the policy, I could not allow the RBS complaint to proceed. 
A complaint was also then set up against Avon. It initially sent a final response to the 
complaint to Mr A in July 2020. In that letter, it explained how the policy was sold on a non-
advised basis and it was Mr As decision as to whether he applied to take out the cover after 
he had reviewed the policy information. 
It also reiterated that on 13 February 2020 it sent Mr A copies of the signed application forms 
that he had returned to activate this insurance and copies of his policy documentation. It said 
that within this information there was no indication that this policy would cover Mr A on a 
general life assurance basis  i.e. if he died from illness or disease. It was an accidental 
death policy. 
Avon also said that it objected to the complaint being allowed to proceed. It said that Mr A 
had pursued it too late under six-year and three-year time limits applying to complaints 
brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Specifically, it said that the sale of the policy 
was more than six years before the complaint was pursued, and more than three years from 
a letter it sent Mr A regarding the policy dated 15 November 2015, within which the policy 
details were clearly set out.  
Our adjudicator initially agreed the complaint had been brought too late, when looking at the 
relevant time limits. Since Mr A was unhappy with this outcome, the matter was passed to 
me for a decision.  
In the interim, Mr As condition has sadly deteriorated to the extent that he has moved into a 
type of care home. His wife, Mrs A, is now representing Mr A in this complaint.  
Avon has since reconsidered its objection to our service considering the complaint. It has 
now given express consent for us to look at the merits of the complaint.  
Our adjudicator therefore considered the complaint in full. However, he did not think it could 
be upheld. He said the policy was sold without advice from Avon. It had been marketed to Mr 
A by RBS and operated by Avon. As it was not a type of life assurance (as Mr A had 
believed), it was not underwritten. Instead, he had accepted a set amount of accidental 
death benefit. Our adjudicator felt the policy documents and the letters sent to Mr A 
periodically thereafter clearly confirmed the type of cover he holds.  
Mrs A said she and Mr A disagree with the view of our adjudicator and they wanted the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. Avon had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to be writing to Mr and Mrs A at such a distressing time for them and I know my 
decision will be a disappointment. But like our adjudicator, I do not believe this complaint can 
succeed. Ill explain why below.  
When the policy was marketed to him through RBS, Mr A had selected a predetermined sum 
assured of £20,000, by ticking a box on the form. The policy only had options for single or 
partner cover. The offer was a lump sum benefit of £20,000 and this couldnt be varied.
Once he had returned the form to Avon, it sent him policy documentation confirming that he 
would be insured for personal accident cover, to age 80. The policy had an initial monthly 
premium of £2.24.   
The policy schedule supplied to Mr A was entitled Accidental Death Benefit Policy. The 
policy documentation does set out in clear terms the grounds under which a claim can be 
made. In the first paragraph of the terms, it says:
The Company will pay to the estate of the Insured Person the Benefit upon death of 
that Insured Person, provided that the death has resulted from, and within 365 days, 
an accidental bodily injury occurring during the Period of Insurance.
In 2005, Avon wrote to Mr A again, offering to provide an additional £20,000 of cover for 
further premium, to which Mr A agreed. It also wrote to Mr A on 15 November 2015 and 15 
April 2019 to advise him that his monthly premium would be increasing slightly due to a 
change in Insurance Premium Tax. 
On each of these occasions, Avon referred to the name of the policy and the type of cover within the documentation. For example, in 2005 when the increase to the sum assured was 
doubled, Mr A (and Mrs A) signed a document noting We wish to increase our Accidental 
Death Insurance by activating £20,000 cover for each of us, from Avon Insurance Plc.
I realise it has come as a surprise to Mr A that the cover was not what he believed it to be. 
But Avon did not advise him about the product. Though there is a misunderstanding about 
the nature of the policy, I dont think Avon is at fault for that. It supplied product literature 
which was clear and not misleading. It was for Mr A to review the information about the 
policy to decide if he wanted to go ahead with it or not. 
To explain for Mr and Mrs A, a life assurance policy offers contrasting benefits and would be 
set up in a different way. Though they are also for a defined term chosen by the applicant, 
personal life assurance policies are set up by the insurer reviewing an applicants medical 
history and performing an assessment of risk known as underwriting. What that means is the 
insurer will ask an applicant a series of medical questions, or it will set out a list of medical 
assumptions for an applicant to provide confirmations about. It will then determine if it needs 
more information or a medical report, if it can offer insurance, and if so on what particular 
terms. That is because life assurance provides cover for the death of a policyholder during 
the term of the policy for any reason, aside from a small number of possible policy 
exclusions. The application process for life assurance is therefore much more involved. 
As an accidental death policy only offers insurance against a person passing away by 
reason of an accident within a defined period, it does not require the same type of medical 
underwriting. Mr As policy is clearly an accidental death policy providing benefit in those 
defined circumstances that I have set out above. There is no evidence at all to suggest Mr A 
was sold life assurance by Avon, or that the policy information could be read as if to believe 
this policy offered life assurance. It follows that I cannot uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr A, I do not believe Avon Insurance Plc to have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in offering and administering his accidental death policy. I therefore reject this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman