DRN-3958352
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Origen Financial Services Limited (Origen) gave them 
unsuitable advice to invest in two personal equity plans (now referred to as ISAs) in 1999. 
Mr and Mrs H are being represented with this complaint, but for ease I have referred to all 
actions and comments throughout as those of Mr and Mrs H. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H met with an advisor in March 1999 and were advised to invest £6,000 into the 
HSBC Fixed Income Fund. This was done within two personal equity plans.
Mr and Mrs H have said that the ISAs were surrendered in May 2003 for £3,503.34. They 
have said they also received annual income from them totalling £1,925.18. 
In July 2021, Mr and Mrs H complained to Origen. They said the advice they had been given 
was unsuitable. They said that their circumstances and future needs were not appropriately 
considered, that the investment carried too much risk for them at the time and that it used up 
too much of their available assets. 
Origen initially responded to say that the complaint hadnt been brought in time. Our service 
considered this and determined that it was in time. However, our investigator didnt think that 
there was sufficient evidence to conclude that Origens advice had been unsuitable. She 
said due to the amount of time that had passed, Origen had not been able to provide any 
point of sale documentation. 
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy, they said that regardless of a lack of information from the 
point of sale, they had shown they werent in a position to take a long-term investment out. 
They said they had sold their home to purchase a business shortly before, so this showed 
they didnt have sufficient assets to invest. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mrs and Mr H, that I think the investigator is correct and I 
havent seen enough to suggest to me that the advice given was unsuitable. So, I wont be 
asking Origen to do anything. Ill explain why.
Understandably, due to the amount of time that has passed since the advice was given in 
1999, Origen havent been able to provide me with any of the point of sale documentation. I 
have therefore had to base my decision on Mr and Mrs Hs testimonies and what I think their 
circumstances were at the time. 
Mrs and Mrs H have said they were 52 and 50 years old respectively and had only 
previously held money in deposit accounts. They said that not long prior to the advice, they 
had sold their house and left their jobs to purchase and run a new business. They recalled 
that this investment took up almost all their available funds. 
Through their representative, Mr and Mrs H have said that their income from their new 
business venture was unknown and as such the advice to invest in that time was unsuitable. 
They have said they should have been left with a greater buffer. However, whilst I have 
limited information from the point of sale and have to base my decision on what I think is 
more likely, I believe a fixed income fund was chosen to supplement their fall in income at a 
time when they were stating a new business. 
I havent seen enough to suggest that Mr and Mrs H werent in a position to invest this 
money and I think it is with the benefit of hindsight that we are aware that Mr and Mrs H 
needed this money within the minimum five year investment period. Further I would suggest, 
that is seems most likely to me, that Mr and Mrs H sought the advice of Origen shortly after 
the sale of their house with a surplus amount following the purchase of their new business. 
We have nothing further to show what Mr and Mrs Hs attitude to risk was at the time of the 
sale. They have been asked retrospectively and are also not able to recall. The advised fund 
was a fixed income fund that would have been predominantly invested in money markets 
and bonds. This will have carried a lower risk than equity-based funds and I havent seen 
enough to conclude that Mr and Mrs H werent in a position to take the risk that this fund 
posed. 
In summary, I have very limited information to base my decision on. However, deciding on 
the information I do have and what I think is most likely to have happened, I dont think the 
advice was unsuitable. I think a fixed income fund had an appropriate level of risk for Mr and 
Mrs H at the time. I think they were looking to supplement their income and so I cant 
conclude that it was wrong for them to invest and that they should have kept their money in a 
deposit account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman