DRN-4236986
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service received from The Royal London Mutual Society Limited 
trading as Scottish Provident (Scottish Provident). This is because when his representative 
asked for policy information, Scottish Provident didnt accept the authority for her to act on 
his behalf and took too long to respond.
What happened
Mr M took out a wealth preservation policy with Scottish Provident in 2003. He did so based 
on a recommendation made by a separate firm. Mr M is represented in his complaint by Mrs 
M (his attorney). His attorney also instructed solicitors.  They complained to Scottish 
Provident about the premium increases and service received when asking for policy 
information. 
Scottish Provident responded to the complaint on 21 November 2022. They felt they hadnt 
done anything wrong. Mrs M remained unhappy and asked our service to investigate. 
A jurisdiction decision was issued on 9 June 2023 which set out why the service issues Mrs 
M complained about fell within our jurisdiction. However, it was decided the part of her 
complaint about the increases in premium fell outside of our jurisdiction and wasnt 
something our service could consider. So, I wont comment on this further. 
Our Investigator issued a view explaining why she felt the service provided by Scottish 
Provident was reasonable. Mrs M didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has provided detailed submissions to our service, and I want to acknowledge the time 
she has spent doing this. I also want to assure her I have considered everything she has 
said about the service issues and where I have not mentioned a specific point she has 
raised, it is not because it hasnt been considered, but because I dont think I need to refer to 
it to reach the right outcome here. 
A copy of the power of attorney was sent to Scottish Provident in July 2022 and in early 
August 2022 Mrs M requested policy information. Ive seen a letter dated 11 August 2022 
which was sent to Mr M and which included policy reviews and information. 
On 6 September 2022 Scottish Provident wrote to Mr Ms solicitors and explained the power 
of attorney stated it would only come into effect when Mr M lost capacity to make his own 
decisions. Scottish Provident asked for this to be confirmed. However, Mrs M has said 
Scottish Provident previously provided information. Having considered the circumstances, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Scottish Provident to ask for this information or write 
directly to Mr M in the absence of confirmation he had lost capacity.  
Further to this, the solicitors complained to Scottish Provident on 28 September 2022. 
Scottish Provident responded on 6 October 2022 and confirmed they received the complaint 
on 29 September 2022. Ive seen this letter was sent to Mr M. However, Im satisfied this 
was reasonable for the reasons already explained. Scottish Provident confirmed they were 
not responsible for the sale of the policy and had passed the complaint on to the advisors. 
They also provided referral rights to our service. 
The solicitors sent further emails to Scottish Provident. For example, on 3 November 2022 
the solicitors wrote to Scottish Provident and said theyd not received a response to their 
letter and asked for one by 17 November 2022. I can see Scottish Provident did provide an 
update on 27 October 2023 and responded to the complaint on 21 November 2022. 
Therefore, I think Scottish Provident responded reasonably here. I note they had previously 
explained why they thought they werent responsible for the complaint and passed it on to 
the advising firm. Although I can understand why Mrs M wanted a response as quickly as 
possible, Scottish Provident had provided an update and given referral rights to our service 
so the complaint could be escalated if not resolved within eight weeks. 
Overall, Ive considered the points raised by Mrs M on behalf of Mr M and Im satisfied 
Scottish Providents service was reasonable here. I appreciate they wrote to Mr M directly, 
but I think this was reasonable in the circumstances and they set out the reasons for this at 
the time. They also passed on the complaint to the advising firm and provided a response on 
21 November 2022. So, I dont think their service fell below a reasonable standard here. 
This means I wont be asking Scottish Provident to do anything to resolve this complaint. I 
appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs M. However, Id also note in these 
circumstances it is Mr M who is the eligible complainant, and I wouldnt be able to ask 
Scottish Provident to do anything to recognise frustration which may have been caused to 
those representing him. I also cant ask Scottish Provident to cover costs of the solicitor Mrs 
M chose to instruct.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman