DRN-3843038
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way his deposit request was handled in branch by Suffolk 
Building Society (SBS). 
What happened
Last year, Mr W went into a branch of the SBS and asked to deposit £1,000 in cash into his 
account. Mr Ws told us hes done this before. When Mr W was seen by counter staff they 
asked him to provide information about the source of the funds. Mr Ws told us he found the 
questions to be invasive and rude. Mr W has explained he decided to close his account and 
move it to another business but the counter staff advised it would take 48 to process his 
request. 
Mr W complained and SBS sent him a final response. SBS said further training needs had 
been identified and apologised that Mr W had found cause to complain. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr W complaint. They contacted SBS and asked it to 
provide process information showing how it normally handles large cash deposits. SBS 
forwarded policy information that showed its counter staff were obliged to ask questions 
about the source of funds when accepting deposits of this size. The investigator didnt think 
SBS had treated Mr W unfairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr N asked to appeal, 
so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws told us hes used his account to deposit similar sums in the past and was surprised 
to be questioned. SBS has sent us a copy of its policy concerning large cash deposits. As 
our investigator has said, the policy says that for deposits of this size, counter staff should 
ask customers about the source of funds and be sure theyre genuine before going ahead. I 
understand this was an entirely genuine transaction and the funds belonged to Mr W. But 
SBS is obliged to carry out checks of this nature. And whilst I understand why Mr W found 
the process frustrating, I havent found any evidence of a mistake on the basis counter staff 
queried the source of the funds. 
I understand Mr W found the way he was asked to be rude and the questions invasive. The 
counter staff have also provided a statement setting out what happened. Its clear the 
counter staff asked questions about the source of the funds that Mr W thought were 
unnecessary. SBS final response confirmed that some additional training needs had been 
identified following Mr Ws visit. And SBS apologised for how the visit made him feel. Whilst I 
dont doubt how distressing Mr W found the branch visit, Im satisfied SBS had a legitimate 
reason to ask the questions it did. In my view, the apology from SBS concerning how his 
branch visit was handled is a fair way to resolve his complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but as Im satisfied SBS dealt with his complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman