DRN-4413677
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the delay on Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds part in
repairing his van after he made a claim for damage to it under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ss van was damaged in July 2022 when it rolled off a drive and collided with a third
partys property. Mr S submitted a claim for his van and it took Advantage until March 2023
to authorise the repairs to it. The timeline of what happened in this period is not  in my
opinion - clear from the information Advantage has provided. But Mr S has said he had to
take his van to Advantages approved repairer four times to have the damage and brakes
checked.
Mr S made three separate complaints to Advantage. One about the delay in authorising the
repairs. This was upheld and Mr S was paid £150 in compensation for the distress and
inconvenience hed experienced due to delays caused by a lack of action on the part of
Advantage. He made another complaint about the fact that Advantage had to re-instruct its 
repair agent and the approved repairer. This complaint wasnt upheld on the basis that
Advantages agent had closed the claim in January 2023 due to a lack of contact from Mr S.
And he made a further complaint about a lack of contact and the fact he had suffered a loss 
of earnings due to having to take his van in to be checked four times. This complaint wasnt
upheld either, although Advantage did offer to consider Mr Ss loss of earnings if he provided
evidence of this.
Mr S asked us to consider his complaint about Advantage at the beginning of April 2023.
When he did this he said it was about the delay repairing his van and the fact he had to take
four days off work to take his van to Advantages approved repairer for checks.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint. He didnt uphold it because he
thought Advantage had already paid enough in compensation for the distress and
inconvenience Mr S had experienced. And because Mr S had not provided sufficient
evidence to show his loss of earnings.
Mr S wasnt happy with the investigators view on the case and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. He didnt think £150 was enough compensation for the distress and inconvenience
hed experienced, as he had to call to chase up the repairs to his van 30-40 times and was
just passed around. He also reiterated his point about losing earnings, as well as having to
pay the £400 excess due under the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 October 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr S asked us to consider his complaint at the beginning of April 2023 I can only consider
what happened up to this point in this decision. However, it is very hard to tell from the
evidence provided by Advantage exactly what did happen with regards to the repairs to Mr
S's van in this period. For example, there is no evidence to show why it was necessary for
him to take it to the approved repairer four times and I think the sequence of events and call
records are hard to follow in the notes Advantage has provided.
What is clear is that there was a delay of around three months due to a lack of action by
Advantage and its repair agent. And then a further delay due to what appears to be a
problem getting a part or parts. I note Mr S was still able to use his van, albeit with the worry
of it not being secure. So, I think the £150 Advantage has already paid in compensation for
the distress and inconvenience Mr S experienced because of this delay is sufficient.
However, I am not satisfied it is sufficient to compensate Mr S for the distress and
inconvenience he experienced overall. I say this because there is no apparent reason for
him having to take his van to the approved repairer four times and I have no reason to doubt
Mr Ss testimony that he had to do this. It seems that he should only have needed to take it
twice at the most; once so an estimate could be drawn up for the repairs and once to check
the brakes. I also have no reason to doubt Mr Ss testimony that he made a lot of calls to
Advantage or its repair agent to chase up his repair. And the call records that Advantage
have provided, whilst not easy to follow, do suggest Mr S made a number of calls chasing
the repairs to his van. And I consider that Mr S should receive a further £200 in
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of visits to the
approved repairer that shouldnt have been necessary and the communication issues he
had.
I appreciate Mr S has said he lost four days earnings as a result of the four visits. But I think
two of these visits were necessary and reasonable. And, while I appreciate Mr S thinks the
evidence he has provided to back up his loss of earnings is sufficient, I do not think it is. All
hes provided are copies of pages from his diary on what I assume are the days of the visits.
But these dont show he lost the jobs listed and wasnt able to fit them in around his visits to
the repairer. And, as Ive already said, I think only two of these visits were unnecessary.
Ive also noted Mr Ss point about paying the £400 excess. But this was always going to be
payable on any claim he made and he would have known this when he took out his policy
with Advantage.
In summary, having considered Mr Ss complaint, I have provisionally decided that
Advantage needs to pay him a further £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I gave the parties until 22 October 2023 to provide further comments and evidence. Mr S has 
responded to say he accepts my provisional decision. 
Advantage has responded by providing a timeline from its repair agent, which it has referred 
to. It has suggested this shows Mr S vehicle went to the repairer three times and that this 
was reasonable. Its explained this was once for the repairs to start, a second time to fit a 
window moulding that seems to have arrived at the repairers late; and a third time because 
Mr S asked to have his van back before this moulding was actually fitted and then needed to 
take it to the repairer again to have it fitted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint and award the extra compensation of £200 I provisionally decided to award. Advantage have potentially explained the reason Mr S took his van to its repairers on three 
of the occasions he did this. It does seem likely he also had to take it there so the repairs 
could be estimated. However, its not clear from the timeline provided by the repair agent 
why they booked Mr Ss van in for repairs without having all the parts, having delayed doing 
this seemingly because it was waiting for parts. Also, I can see the repair agent had 
problems getting information from the repairer and arranging the repair. And I think this 
backs up Mr Ss assertion that he had to make numerous calls to find out what was going on 
and got very frustrated with the lack of information being provided. 
Putting things right
Overall, it remains my view for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision that 
Advantage should pay Mr S a further £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint about Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited and order it to pay Mr S a further £200 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman