DRN-4001699
The complaint
Mr S has complained about a guarantor loan that was provided by Everyday Lending 
Limited, trading GeorgeBanco.com (George Banco). He says that the loan was 
unaffordable to him as the loan guarantor. 
What happened
Mr S, who is represented by a third party, became the guarantor on a loan of £5,000 
provided to the borrower in May 2016.
The loan was secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement and was due
to be repaid in 60 instalments of £187.39. The total amount to be repaid was £11,275.00.
Mr S is now being required by George Banco to repay the loan under the terms of a 
guarantee and indemnity agreement. 
Mr S says that George Banco didnt carry out proper affordability checks and that had it done 
so it would have seen that the loan could not be sustainably repaid by Mr S if he was 
required to do so. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr S and George Banco had told us. And she 
thought that George Banco hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint be upheld. Mr S disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice related to guarantor loans - on
our website. And Ive referred to this when deciding Mr Ss complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
George Banco needed to make sure that it didnt act irresponsibly in relation to the loan. In 
practice, what this means is George Banco needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Mr S could afford to meet the loan repayments.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks
were proportionate. Generally, the rules and regulations that were in place required 
George Banco to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr S, as 
the guarantor for the borrower, could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. The 
existence of a guarantee and indemnity agreement and the potential for George Banco to 
pursue Mr S, instead of the borrower, for the loan payments, doesnt alter, lessen or 
somehow dilute this obligation. 
As the borrower isnt part of this complaint, I dont have evidence of any checks George 
Banco may have carried out for them. But the lack of that information isnt a concern here 
because it is Mr S that George Banco is seeking to enforce the guarantee and indemnity 
agreement against. And so Mr S has been called upon to meet the outstanding payments. 
George Banco says it agreed to Mr S being the guarantor after he provided details of his 
monthly income and some information on his regular expenditure. This included that he was 
living at home with his parents, had no dependants and that his monthly contribution towards 
housing costs was £40. George Banco says it cross-checked this information against 
information on a credit search it carried out. Based on these checks it looked as if Mr S could 
afford to make the repayments, if required to do so. On the other hand, Mr S has said he 
wasnt in a good enough financial position at the time.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr S and George Banco have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that George Banco has provided a record of the results of its credit searches. These 
searches show that he was managing his two bank accounts and credit card well with no 
history of defaults or other adverse markings on his credit file. So I think its fair to say that 
Mr Ss active credit commitments were relatively low and were being reasonably well 
managed.
I do accept that Mr Ss actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the
information he provided or the other information George Banco obtained. Equally I accept 
that if George Banco had gone into a much greater depth of checks it may have reached a 
different answer. But I think the key thing here is that the checks that were carried were 
proportionate and didnt suggest any underlying problems, or possible inconsistencies with 
what Mr S had told George Banco about his financial situation. I therefore dont think that 
George Banco did anything wrong when accepting Mr S as the borrowers guarantor. 
Rather, it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were likely to be affordable.
Ive seen that when responding to our investigators finding, Mr S said he felt it was wrong 
that hed been required to meet the payments. But Ive also seen a copy of the guarantee 
and indemnity which he would have the opportunity to fully consider before signing it. It was 
open to him to choose not to go ahead with it at that point. 
So overall I dont think that George Banco treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably when 
accepting him as a guarantor for this loan and to expect him to meet the repayments due 
under the terms of the loan if required to do. 
It follows that I wont be upholding Mr Ss complaint. I know this will be disappointing for 
Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman