DRN-3370586
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) has refused to refund a 
payment she made using her Tesco Mastercard credit card.  She believed this payment was 
being made to 2dots, which she says turned out to be operating a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mrs F says she opened a trading account with 2dots and had a broker called 
Mark.  She says she did this because of the success her late husband was having with 
2dots.  In September 2019, Mrs F made a £5,000 payment to her 2dots trading account 
using her Tesco Mastercard credit card.  Mrs F says her account was making a profit and 
she was given two bonuses.  However, when she wanted to make a withdrawal, Mark 
informed her to wait.  Thereafter,  I waited.  After that advice, we heard no more from 
[Mark]. We tried to contact both him and 2 Dots by email, phone and online without success. 
Nobody got back to us and we have heard nothing from him since.
Mrs F asked Tesco to try to recover her money.  As this did not happen, Mrs F raised a 
complaint.
In response, Tesco considered Mrs F liable for the payment.  It said Mrs F knowingly made 
the payment to a legitimate trading platform.  It argued that what happened to her funds 
thereafter was not its responsibility.  Tesco added that it allowed the payment under Mrs Fs 
instruction and had already declined it once prior to her confirming she wanted it processed.
Unhappy with Tescos position, Mrs F referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it.  He said that Mrs Fs 
payment was made to a legitimate third-party merchant, Jubiter.  Because of this, he argued 
that Mrs F did not have any rights under the Mastercard chargeback scheme, so he could 
not conclude Tesco acted unfairly by not raising a claim on her behalf.  The investigator also 
thought that because Mrs F made her payment to Jubiter, rather than 2dots  this broke the 
debtor-creditor-supplier chain, which meant she had no rights under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  For these reasons, the investigator did not ask Tesco to refund 
Mrs Fs money.
Mrs F did not accept the investigators findings.  In short, she argued that Tesco could have 
done more to prevent the fraud  such as contacting her at the time to find out more about 
the payment.
The investigator responded stating that Mrs Fs initial £5,000 payment was blocked by 
Tesco.  He went on to say he had listened to a telephone call between Mrs F and one of 
Tescos agents.  In that call, the investigator says the agent told Mrs F that her payment had 
been blocked because it was linked to cryptocurrency; he provided her with a warning 
stating that the cryptocurrency company may not be legitimate; and said that if a payment is 
made, and something went wrong  Mrs F would not be able to make a fraud claim.  Despite 
this warning, Mrs F asked for the payment to be processed, as she was satisfied the 
company was legitimate.  For these reasons, the investigator thought Tesco had followed 
the correct steps he would expect to see from a credit provider  that is, blocking the 
payment and providing a sufficient scam warning.
As an agreement could not be reached between the investigator and Mrs F, the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
On 24 February 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to uphold this complaint on the basis that I am not persuaded 
Tesco gave Mrs F a sufficient and meaningful scam warning in the circumstances.  I set out 
my reasons why below.
It is common ground that the disputed payment was authorised by Mrs F for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), in force at the time.  This is because it 
was made by Mrs F using the legitimate security credentials provided to her by Tesco.  
These must be regarded as authorised payments even if Mrs F believes she was the victim 
of a sophisticated scam. 
As a starting position, banks are under an obligation to follow their customers instructions. 
Banks have a duty to make payments or accommodate cash withdrawal requests correctly 
and promptly so that legitimate payments are made correctly.  So, consumers who authorise 
a payment, even where that turns out to be fraud related or they were tricked into doing so, 
start off on the back-foot when it comes to getting that payment returned to them because 
the bank was following a valid instruction.
There are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account relevant rules, 
codes and best practice  ought to have been on alert or notice that something was not right 
or should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making 
the payment.  So, I have looked into what this means for this case and whether Tesco 
should have done more here to prevent the payments in dispute.
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Tesco 
should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams; 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things).  This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of alerts about traders published by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and/or placed on the Investor Alerts Portal of the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO).  As long ago as June 
2012, the FCAs predecessor indicated  in its consultation paper entitled Banks Defences 
Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims  that it was good 
industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types of scams and potential 
perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence with other banks, UK 
and overseas regulators, the police, etc.  Whilst the regulator gave no specific timings, it is 
not unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to update its watch-list and 
communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being posted by the FCA 
and/or IOSCO.  In my judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bells  and 
lead to the payment being paused  pending further enquiries (and a possible scam 
warning) to the payer. 
Presumably, Tesco considered that all the above applied at the time.  And that is why it 
blocked Mrs Fs first attempted payment of £5,000.
Our investigator concluded that Tesco provided Mrs F with a sufficient scam warning when 
she called it about the payment.  Mrs F argues that it was not sufficient.  Therefore, I have 
listened carefully to the telephone call concerned  particularly to the warning Tescos agent 
gave Mrs F.  In that call, after security checks and the agent explaining that the payment was 
blocked because it was for cryptocurrency, he said, amongst other things:
You are well aware that some of these sites are not secure  You are aware if it does go 
wrong, then [sic] we obviously blocked it and advised you that it is a cryptocurrency and that 
it may not be, kosher, and youre quite happy to procced  If it does go wrong theyll be no 
claim.
Having considered the above, I do accept that Tesco provided Mrs F with a scam warning.  
However, I am not persuaded that it was a sufficient or meaningful one.
During the course of the telephone call, Tescos agent did not ask Mrs F any probing 
questions about the payment.   I do appreciate Mrs F confirmed she was making it to a 
legitimate company which her late husband had been dealing with.  However, she did not 
say the actual name of the company she was making payment to/dealing with; nor, more 
importantly, did Tescos agent ask for this information.  In my view, on balance, had the 
agent asked Mrs F this information, she would have mentioned 2dots (notwithstanding the 
fact the payment was made to Jubiter).
I can see that there was a warning published about 2dots on the FCAs website on 17 July 
2018  so more than a month before Mrs F made her payment in September 2019.  Further, 
there are warnings which were placed on IOSCOs Investor Alerts Portal about 2dots on 7 
May and 20 August 2019. These were published by Comisin Nacional del Mercado de 
Valores (Spain); and Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (Luxembourg), 
respectively.
These warnings are important.  I say this because it is not unreasonable to expect a bank 
the size of Tesco that regularly updates its internal alerts to include information about 
payees who had tried to carry out regulated activities without permission  such as 2dots.  
Therefore, had Tescos agent asked Mrs F the name of the company she was making 
payment to  I would have expected the warnings about 2dots to have become apparent.  It was reasonable for Tesco to have properly questioned Mrs F before processing her payment 
in order to satisfy itself that all was well.  I am not satisfied this happened here.
Had the warnings about 2dots come to light during the telephone call, I would have expected 
Tescos agent to put them to Mrs F.  I am persuaded that had this happened, it is likely that 
Mrs F would not have made the payment and would have spoken to her late husband first.  
I am of the view that had she heard about the FCA warning and those on the IOSCOs 
Investor Alerts Portal, this would have dissuaded her from continuing with the payment  
outweighing her late husbands dealings with 2dots at the time.  I am particularly persuaded 
by the fact that Mrs F said during the call that she had been sceptical at first  which further 
supports the argument that had the regulator warnings been put to her at the time, she 
would likely not have made the payment.
Further, as these events took place in September 2019, I would have expected Tescos 
warning to have gone a step further, rather than simply telling Mrs F about the regulator 
warnings.  That is, I would have expected it to also inform Mrs F that it is common practice in 
these types of scams for the scammers to make token credits to induce the innocent victim 
into making further payments.  This, including the regulator warnings: amount to a 
meaningful and robust scam warning  which to my mind, should have been put to Mrs F at 
the time for the reasons I have already given.
If Tesco had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence by contacting Mrs F and 
asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that she would have gone 
into greater detail about what she was doing and who her payment was intended for.  In 
such circumstances, whilst Tesco had no duty to protect Mrs F from a bad bargain or give 
investment advice, it could have invited her to check whether the payee was registered 
with the FCA, or at the very least, invited her to check that there were no existing warnings 
about them.  It could have also explained its own customer experiences with merchants 
like 2dots in that customers would often be prevented from withdrawing available 
balances.  After all, at that time, there was information in the public domain  which a bank 
ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought no  about the very high risks 
associated with binary options including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action 
Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 
warning; the FCAs consultation paper of December 2016; and the Gambling 
Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely 
operating illegally, and so forth). 
So, taking all the above factors together, I am not persuaded Tesco provided Mrs F with a 
sufficient or meaningful warning; or gave her reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the 
payment she was making.  Tesco missed an opportunity to do so.
Chargeback and section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
For completeness, I have considered whether Mrs F had any chargeback or section 75 
rights regarding her payment.  Having done so, I am not satisfied she did.  I say this 
because her payment was made to Jubiter, a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, which 
provided the service it was meant to.  So, I do not consider that it was unreasonable of 
Tesco not to pursue a chargeback or section 75 claim on Mrs Fs behalf.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs F responded to say she agreed with my provisional findings and was happy with the 
outcome.  However, Tesco did not respond.What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mrs F agreed with my provisional findings, but Tesco did not respond  I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I therefore 
propose Tesco Personal Finance PLC:
Pay Mrs F all the money she lost; including any associated transaction fees (if 
applicable), less any credits (if applicable); plus
Interest (less any tax properly deductible)  either (i) at the simple rate of 8% per 
year on the payment(s) from the date they were paid to the date of settlement; or (ii) 
if the account accrued interest because the relevant statement balances were not 
paid in full, interest should be paid at the rate actually charged for the payment(s) 
from the date Mrs F reported the fraud to Tesco Personal Finance PLC.
Should an outstanding balance be owed on Mrs Fs credit card account relating to 
the disputed payment(s) and/or interest on the disputed payment(s), Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC is entitled to repay this balance first from the settlement outlined in the 
bullets above.
If Tesco Personal Finance PLC deducts tax in relation to the interest element of the 
award, it should provide Mrs F with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman