DRN-3343133
The complaint
Mr T complains that Target Servicing Limited refused him a coronavirus payment deferral. 
And he complains that it has recorded incorrect information about arrears on his secured 
loan to the credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr T has a secured loan, which has been in place for many years. While the loan was with 
the original lender, Mr T experienced financial difficulties and fell into arrears. He agreed a 
payment arrangement with the lender to pay more than his contractual payment to reduce 
the arrears.
Mr T has been making his payments now for a number of years, including paying extra each 
month to reduce the historic arrears. 
Mr T said that the original lender stopped reporting anything about the loan to his credit file 
in around 2013.
Mr Ts loan was sold on to another lender more recently. The new lender is not a regulated 
firm, and has appointed Target to manage the loan on its behalf. As the regulated entity 
managing the loan, Target is therefore responsible for this complaint.
Mr T says he was notified in 2019 that his loan would once again be reported to the credit 
reference agencies. This began in July 2019  and it was wrongly reported that he missed 
payments in July and August 2019.
In 2020, following the coronavirus pandemic, Mr T requested a payment deferral because 
his household income had been affected while his wife, who is self-employed, couldnt work. 
Target granted a payment arrangement, initially for two months. Mr T says it reported to his 
credit file that he had missed payments, and recorded four missed payments even though he 
only took a three month deferral.
Mr T complains about how Target has reported the loan to his credit file. He says it should 
not have reported missed payments in July and August 2019, because he did not miss those 
payments. It should not report missed payments in 2020 because he should have been on 
an agreed payment deferral. And, he says, its not fair to report his account as being in 
arrears generally when his financial problems are long in the past and hes been overpaying 
for more than seven years.
Our investigator thought that Target should have allowed Mr T to take a payment deferral 
and recorded it as such  not as missed payments  on his credit file. She said it should pay 
him £100 compensation.
Target didnt agree. It said that as he was in arrears at the time, Mr T wasnt eligible for a 
payment deferral. It offered him a zero payment arrangement instead  but was entitled to 
record the payments as missed on his credit file.
Mr T said that it wasnt fair that Target was reporting arrears at all. He had last missed a 
payment  other than the payment deferral  over seven years ago. Because the previous 
lender had stopped reporting anything, and Target had only re-started in 2019, it looked like 
he was in arrears and missing payments recently. That wasnt a fair impression to give. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint comes to me for a final decision to be 
made. I reached a different outcome to the investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties the chance for further comment before I made a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to set out my thinking on the case. I said:
I understand Mr Ts frustration that this loan appears on his credit file at all  or, at least, that 
it does so showing that the loan is not up to date. The previous lender stopped reporting in 
2013; by starting again in 2019, Target is putting his credit file in a worse position than it 
would otherwise be.
But I dont think its unreasonable for the loan to be reported on his credit file. It still exists; 
Mr T is still paying it, and so its fair that its recorded. Hes had the benefit of it not being 
reported between 2013 and 2019, but that doesnt mean its not fair for a new lender to take 
over and start reporting again.
However, when it does report, Target should do so fairly and accurately. In my view, it 
hasnt.
Ive looked at the copy of his credit file Mr T has provided, as generated by him in February 
2021. It doesnt show missed payments in July and August 2019, as Mr T said. 
Reporting starts in June 2019. The record between then and January 2021 is:
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
2021 2
2020 AR 2 4 4 4 3 AR R AR AR AR AR
2019 3 3 AR AR AR AR AR
AR means theres an agreed arrangement in place; a number means there is no 
arrangement, and Mr T is in arrears by that number of monthly payments.
I dont think this is fair reporting by Target.
Its reasonable to show that Mr T is in an arrangement and the loan is not up to date. Thats 
accurate; although he hasnt missed any payments for several years, hes only overpaying 
by around £20 a month, and hasnt caught up with all the missed payments yet. So hes in 
arrears  albeit historic  and clearing them by arrangement.
But its not reasonable to show 3 rather than AR in 2019, or 2 in February 2020 and 
January 2021.There was an arrangement in place between Mr T and the previous lender for many years, 
by which Mr T would pay £225 per month as his monthly payment and a contribution to the 
arrears. Mr T has done that.
When it took over the loan, its not unreasonable for the new lender to check that 
arrangement is still appropriate, or even whether Mr T can increase the amount hes paying. 
And to review that annually. Having done so, Target agreed the previous arrangement could 
stay in place  which was fair.
But its not reasonable to show that there was no arrangement in place, or to report that Mr T 
wasnt managing his loan in an agreed way, while those reviews were carried out.
In my view, those months should be corrected to show an arrangement  on the report from 
this agency that would show AR (though each agency uses slightly different codes, the 
general principle that an arrangement is recorded is the same). Target should amend Mr Ts 
credit file to show that he was in an arrangement in all those months.
As for the payment deferral, I dont think Target treated Mr T fairly there either. It quoted 
extracts from the regulators guidance for consumers to the investigator. But what it should 
have considered was the detailed guidance for firms.
As that guidance made clear, arrears were not a barrier to a payment arrangement. It might 
not always be in a customers best interests to grant a payment deferral to a customer in 
arrears where other forms of assistance might be more suitable. But I dont think this is such 
a case. Mr T was making his payments and had done so for years. While he was in arrears, 
that was not reflective of current financial difficulties, but of long-past problems. I see no 
reason why a payment deferral would not have been appropriate for Mr T or would not have 
been in his best interests.
In those circumstances, I dont think it was fair for Target to give Mr T a zero payment 
arrangement for two months, later extended to three, rather than a covid payment deferral 
for three months. The effect is exactly the same  Mr T makes no payments during that 
period, by arrangement  but the difference is that under the regulators guidance, a 
payment deferral should not be reported to Mr Ts credit file to show a worsening position.
Ive seen on its notes that Target recognises that now, and has given Mr T a backdated 
payment deferral rather than a zero payment arrangement, and re-calculated his future 
contractual payments accordingly. Its therefore surprising that in doing so it didnt recognise 
the need to correct his credit file at the same time.
In fact, even if Target was right in March 2020 that it should have granted a zero payment 
arrangement rather than a payment deferral  which, as Ive said, I dont think it was  it still 
didnt report to Mr Ts credit file properly even then. A zero payment arrangement is still a 
payment arrangement, and therefore should have been reported as such to the credit 
reference agencies  not as missed payments with no arrangement. On the example credit 
file Mr T has given us, it should always have shown AR, rather than 4, 4, 4, 3, whether 
Target treated it as a zero payment arrangement or a payment deferral.
To put things right, Target should correct Mr Ts credit file with all the credit reference 
agencies. It should amend the records to show that Mr T has been in a payment 
arrangement continually since reporting re-started in 2019.
Since our investigator recommended £100 compensation, Mr T has provided further 
evidence. Hes been trying to take out a new mortgage, but as evidence hes provided from his broker shows, thats simply not been possible because his credit files appears to show 
he's missed payments and broken arrangements.
I cant say for certain that if Target had recorded to his credit file properly Mr T would have 
been able to re-mortgage  there are many other things a lender will need to take into 
account. Some lenders will not be willing to lend where theres a payment arrangement as 
well, though others will. But I do think that the errors on his file made it more likely that 
Mr broker told him there was no point in even exploring a re-mortgage. Ive seen the whole 
credit file, and there arent any other concerning issues on it. So Im satisfied that the 
brokers concerns related to Targets errors rather than some other credit issue.
Even so, there may have been other reasons why Mr T would not have been able to get a 
mortgage even if his broker had not had to advise him there was no point even applying 
because of the missed payments. So I cant say theres any financial loss. But I do think the 
incorrect entries Target has put on his file, and its refusal to consider a payment deferral in 
March 2020, have caused Mr T significant distress and inconvenience. I think compensation 
of £350 is fair in all the circumstances.
Finally, given Mr T has been making the payments under the agreed arrangement for many 
years and is not showing signs of current financial difficulty, I suggest Target reconsiders 
whether its necessary to maintain the position of arrears and arrangement, or whether the 
remaining arrears can simply be capitalised and a new monthly payment agreed that will 
result in Mr T clearing the balance by the end of the term.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr T confirmed that he had recently been able to 
move to another lender and had redeemed this loan. But in doing so, he had to go to a 
specialist lender and pay a higher interest rate than he might otherwise have done. He 
wanted me to reconsider compensating him for this higher interest.
Target confirmed that it had amended Mr Ts credit file. And it agreed the compensation I 
had suggested. It also confirmed that the loan was now redeemed.
Putting things right
Ive thought carefully again about this case. Now the loan has been redeemed, theres no 
need for capitalisation. So that part of my provisional decision falls away. Target accepted, 
and Mr T had no further points to make about, the £350 compensation.
That leaves as the final matter the question of whether its fair to ask Target to compensate 
Mr T for having to pay a high rate of interest to his new lender. Ive considered this again. 
But I dont think it is.
In the first place, I dont know what rate Mr T might have been able to get elsewhere to 
compare this rate to  theres no comparison rate to compensate him for the difference in.
More importantly, Im not persuaded that but for the errors Target made in this complaint, 
Mr T would have been able to go to a more mainstream lender with a lower interest rate. 
Even if his credit file was correct all along, it would always have shown AR  that he was in 
arrears and repaying them by arrangement. That would always have limited the choice of 
lenders available to him and Im not persuaded therefore that the outcome would have been any different  I think its likely his arrears history would always have limited him to a 
specialist lender at a relatively high rate of interest.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I intend to direct 
Target Servicing Limited to:
Correct Mr Ts credit file with all the credit reference agencies so that it shows a 
continual payment arrangement since reporting re-started in 2019; and
Pay Mr T £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman