DRN-4271505
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, wouldnt allow him to 
make a withdrawal from his account.
What happened
Mr G instructed a withdrawal from his Virgin account as he wanted to take advantage of a 
better rate of interest offered by another provider. But Virgin felt that Mr G has already 
instructed the maximum number of withdrawals permitted on his account for that year, and 
so declined the requested withdrawal. 
Mr G wasnt happy about this and felt Virgins system had incorrectly considered the creation 
of a new account as being a withdrawal. And he also wasnt happy with the service hed 
received from Virgin when trying to discuss this matter with them. So, he raised a complaint.
Virgin acknowledged theyd made an error which had led to them considering Mr G to have 
made a withdrawal when he hadnt done so. And they also accepted that Mr G had 
experienced longer hold times when trying to call Virgin than should have been the case. 
Virgin apologised to Mr G and asked him to contact them to provide evidence of any loss of 
interest he may have incurred resultant from his withdrawal request being declined and 
discuss a branch visit they had no record of. And Virgin also offered to make a payment of 
£125 to Mr G as compensation for any upset or inconvenience may have incurred. Mr G 
wasnt satisfied with Virgins response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response that Virgin had 
issued to Mr G already represented a fair outcome to what had happened. Mr G remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Virgin have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Virgin have accepted they made an error here and that Mr G has a valid complaint. In such 
situations, it would generally be expected by this service that Virgin would take the action 
necessary to put Mr G into the financial position he should be in, had the mistake never 
occurred, and consider whether any financial compensation should be awarded to Mr G for 
the upset and inconvenience he experienced because of what happened. 
Having reviewed Virgins response to Mr Gs complaint, I think theyve done that here. I say 
this because Virgin have offered to reimburse any loss of interest Mr G may have incurred 
through not being allowed to transfer his money when he first wanted to. 
Virgins offer here is dependent on Mr G demonstrating this loss of interest to them. This 
feels fair to me, and I wouldnt expect a business to reimburse a claimed loss of interest that 
hasnt been reasonably demonstrated to them. As such, I can only encourage Mr G to liaise 
with Virgin and provide the information needed so his claim for lost interest can be assessed.
Additionally, Virgin have offered to make a payment of £125 to Mr G as compensation for the 
trouble and upset hes incurred because of Virgins declining of this withdrawal request and 
for the service he incurred surrounding this, including the long hold times he experienced. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, but Virgins offer of £125 feels fair to me here. 
I say this in consideration of the trouble and upset Mr G has experienced, and the general 
framework this service uses when thinking about compensation amounts  details of which 
can be found on this services website. And I can confirm that £125 is commensurate with 
what I might have instructed Virgin to pay, had they not already offered to do so.
Finally, I note that Virgin have asked Mr G to provide further information to them of the visit 
he made to one of their branches when trying to resolve this matter with them, but of which 
Virgin presently have no record of. And Virgin confirmed in their response to Mr Gs 
complaint that theyre open to considering a further award of compensation to Mr G 
regarding this visit, if appropriate. And again, this feels fair to me. 
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Gs favour, Ill only be 
doing so to compel Virgin to take the actions that theyve already offered to take in their 
response to Mr Gs complaint. This includes the payment of £125 compensation to Mr G, as 
well as potentially reimbursing a loss of interest to Mr G and potentially making a further 
compensation payment to him  dependent on information to be provided to Virgin by Mr G.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr G was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Virgin must write to Mr G inviting him to discuss his claimed loss of interest and his visit to 
branch with Virgin  providing appropriate channels for Mr G to contact them  with a view to 
then acting in accordance with their response to Mr Gs complaint. 
Virgin must also make a payment of £125 to Mr G. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as 
Virgin Money, on the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman