DRN-2848414
The complaint
Miss U complains that IGO4 Limited provided poor service to her in administering a motor
insurance policy shed bought.  
What happened
Miss U bought a telematics policy online to start on 28 December 2018. The policys terms
and conditions said a black box recorder must be fitted to her car within 14 days or the
policy would be cancelled. Miss U was going to be abroad until after that period expired.
When she contacted IGO4 about that, it said the policy wouldnt be cancelled if the box was
installed by 18 January 2020.
IGO4 arranged for the boxs installation to be done by firm D on 15 January 2020. Miss U
thought it was to be fitted in the morning, but firm D said the appointment had been arranged
for the afternoon. As Miss U wasnt available then, the appointment was missed. She called
IGO4 on 22 January 2020 to arrange another one. The advisor booked a further
appointment for 24 January 2020. Miss U then got two letters from IGO4 dated 22 January
2020. One of them was a seven-day notice of cancellation. The other one (sent in error) said
her policy wouldnt be cancelled as long as the box was fitted by 29 January 2020.
When Miss U complained to IGO4, it said firm D had sent her texts to confirm that the fitting
would be done on the afternoon of 15 January 2020. It said the advisor she spoke to when
arranging a further appointment for 24 January 2020 told Miss U shed have to call back in a
few hours to confirm it, as the request may be declined. Miss U didnt call back, and IGO4 
said as the policys underwriter hadnt agreed to the request, a cancellation letter was sent.
Later on, IGO4 agreed to remove the cancellation charge of £75, as it accepted that the two
letters it had issued on 22 January 2020 had caused confusion. It noted that Miss U had
made a chargeback for the £190.45 shed paid on buying the policy, so it said that sum was
owed by her (for time on cover and a £150 telematics fee).
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Us complaint. He didnt think IGO4 had acted fairly.
He thought it had departed from the policys terms and conditions so the box could be fitted
more than 14 days after the policy started. So in his opinion, there was no reason it couldnt
have done that again, especially as IGO4 had continued to liaise with Miss U about another
fitting date. The investigator also thought the policy didnt have to be cancelled, as its terms 
and conditions only said it may be cancelled. He said IGO4 should refund any charges
payable on cancellation and pay Miss U £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  I issued a 
provisional decision partly upholding Miss Us complaint as follows:
Despite the policy documents stating that the box must be installed within 14 days of the
policy starting, when Miss U told IGO4 that shed be abroad for that whole period, it said the
box could be fitted up to 18 January 2020 (21 days after the policy took effect).
We asked IGO4 recently to clarify whether it had discretion to increase the number of days
allowed for the fitting. It said that it depended on the circumstances and the insurer, but that
in this case no referral was made to the insurer. That conflicts with what it said in its final
response letter to Miss U and in an earlier email to us. But its in line with what it said in the
covering letter it sent to us with its business file. Either way, IGO4 confirmed that the insurer
will allow the box to be fitted within 21 days, so theres some flexibility. IGO4 used that
flexibility to arrange the first fitting outside the policys stated 14-day limit.
IGO4 told us that its back-office team sent the cancellation notice to Miss U as she hadnt
contacted it sooner about the missed appointment on 15 January 2020. That appointment
was missed because Miss U thought it was to take place during the morning. We asked her
recently to explain why she thought that was the case or to provide anything to show that
shed been told about a morning appointment. Miss U couldnt recall or provide anything to
clarify her understanding of the appointment time.
Meanwhile, IGO4 had already provided a copy of the text message sent to Miss U by firm D
showing that on 14 January 2020 firm D had confirmed the box would be fitted between 1pm
and 5pm the next day. It sent two further text messages to Miss U very shortly after 12 noon
on 15 January 2020 asking her to call it about the appointment. Miss U says she didnt get
any of these texts, but I think the evidence shows they were sent. I dont think Miss U can
show that IGO4 was at fault for the initial appointment not going ahead.
Miss U hasnt explained why she didnt contact IGO4 on the day of the missed appointment
or shortly afterwards to arrange another one. Firm D sent her a further text message, plus an
email, on 17 January 2020  but even if it hadnt, I think the onus was on Miss U to contact
IGO4 to try to arrange another date for the fitting, as she was aware of the importance of
having the box fitted within a stated time limit.
Before buying the policy, Miss U had to agree to its terms and conditions, which included the
fitting of the box within 14 days. The Welcome letter IGO4 sent to Miss U on 27 December
2019 said it must be fitted within 14 days. She called IGO4 when she realised that wouldnt
be possible. The letter IGO4 sent to her on 9 January 2020 (granting an extension) said the
policy wouldnt be cancelled as long as the fitting was completed by 18 January 2020. So I
think Miss U was on notice of a potential cancellation if the box wasnt fitted by that date.
Miss U emailed IGO4 on 20 January 2020 saying the first appointment had been missed.
When she called IGO4 on 22 January 2020, the advisor gave her a provisional date for the
fitting. But I think she made it clear that shed have to check with IGO4s back-office team to
see if an extension could be granted. She asked Miss U to call back in three hours to check
what decision had been made, so I dont think Miss U was misled at that point by IGO4.
IGO4 told us the back-office team manages the relationship between it and the insurer. The
insurer confirmed in March 2021 that the cancellation was correct, and that it was dealt with
through IGO4. The insurer said Miss U had 21 days for the box to be fitted and that IGO4
and firm D had tried to accommodate that. It said the policy allowed it to cancel all cover if
there were serious grounds to do so, including where the box was not fitted (or a consumer
didnt co-operate in having it fitted) within the set time-frame.
What led to the cancellation in this case was the fact that Miss U didnt contact IGO4 as
soon as the initial appointment was missed. She waited five days before emailing it and then
waited a further two days before calling to arrange another date for the fitting. I think she
should have contacted it earlier, especially when one extension had already been allowed. I
dont think it was unreasonable for IGO4 to arrange the cancellation. I think the policys
terms and conditions, plus the insurers limited flexibility on the installation period, made it
appropriate - and I think IGO4 has shown that it tried to assist Miss U as far as it could.IGO4 has accepted it made an error in issuing a letter on 22 January 2020 stating that the
box could be fitted up to a week after that date. It says as a result of that, it waived the £75
cancellation charge, which I think was fair. It chased Miss U for the £190.45 she owed after
making the chargeback. Part of the sum owed is for the time on cover provided by the
insurer until the policy was cancelled. I think Miss U is obliged to pay for that, as she used
the cover. But at the moment, I dont think she should have to pay the £150 telematics fee.
As far as I can see, IGO4 hasnt shown that it made Miss U aware that the charge would be
payable, even if the box was never fitted. And even if it did, Im not persuaded it would be
fair and reasonable to charge her for it anyway. There was no installation or removal of the
box, and IGO4 hasnt shown what the charge is based on. So unless it can explain why it
would be reasonable for Miss U to pay the £150 charge, I think it should be waived.
Despite its error in sending out a letter in error, I dont think IGO4 should have to pay
compensation in this case. It has already waived the £75 cancellation charge (which I would
have said was fair had it not been waived). In my opinion, to settle the matter fairly, it should
recalculate the sum owed by Miss U, having deducted the telematics fee.  
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Miss U accepted them. IGO4 
didnt comment, despite reminders.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party commented on my provisional findings, theres no reason to depart from 
them, so for the reasons set out above, Im upholding Miss Ls complaint in part.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require IGO4 Limited to recalculate 
the sum owed by Miss U after the £150 telematics charge is removed.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman