DRN-3192316
The complaint
Miss G says Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday) lent to her irresponsibly. She also 
complains that Everyday has, in summary:
Breached General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR).
Not provided information in a timely manner about her loan. Some of the information 
Everyday has provided has been conflicting and incorrect. It wasnt clear to her when 
her loan would end.
She was not treated positively and sympathetically when she had difficulties repaying 
the loan and she felt pressured by Everydays collection procedures. 
Not adhered to its regulatory responsibilities. 
Miss G says that the loan negatively affected her finances and the pressure she was placed 
under adversely affected her mental health.
 
What happened
This complaint is about one loan Miss G took in May 2007. Miss G borrowed £2,500. She 
was scheduled to make one repayment of £75 followed by 35 payments of £129.30. The 
total she would repay is £4,600.50.
Miss G fell into difficulty with the repayments almost straight away. I have read everything 
Miss G and Everyday have said about the problems Miss G had repaying the loan, but I 
wont reproduce them in full here.
But, briefly, Miss G and Everyday agreed a reduced amount to pay in October 2007, but I 
understand she also had problems making this repayment. The loan was defaulted in 
December 2010 and passed to a third-party collection agency. I understand Miss G was still 
making payments of a reduced amount when she made her complaint. 
In its response to the complaint, as a gesture of goodwill, Everyday said it would close the 
loan. Its not entirely clear if it did this. But I dont need to know whether the loan is closed or 
not to fairly decided this complaint. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint about irresponsible lending. He said that the checks 
Everyday did showed that Miss G was unlikely to be able to repay the loan sustainably and 
so it shouldnt have lent. This was because she already had a significant amount of other 
debt to repay. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the other parts of Miss Gs complaint. 
Everyday disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that even though she had other 
debt to repay she could still afford the loan. And it wasnt relevant that she was at, or near, 
the limits of her credit cards as these limits were not high. 
Miss G agreed with what the adjudicator said. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Everyday needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out reasonable checks to make sure Miss G 
could repay the loans without undue difficulty. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Everyday should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was affordable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Gs complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
Miss G didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to uphold Miss Gs complaints about 
data protection and customer service.  These include the information Everyday had provided 
and how it had contacted Miss G and if this had caused her any distress. Because of this, I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these parts of Miss Gs complaint, and I 
wont comment on them in detail. Save to say, I dont think these parts of Miss Gs complaint 
should succeed for the same reasons the adjudicator said. 
Our adjudicator that thought that Miss Gs complaint about irresponsible lending should 
succeed as the information Everyday took at the time the loan was approved showed that 
she couldnt sustainably repay the lending. Having looked at the information provided I agree 
with this. 
Miss Gs income was recorded as being around £980 a month. Everyday didnt ask Miss G 
about her expenditure, it used statistical averages to show the loan was affordable. That said 
she was recorded as still living with her parents so her expenditure may have been modest. 
It's worth noting that her normal expenditure was shown as being around £650 a few months 
later when Everyday looked again at Mss Gs finances. So, it may have been that Everyday didnt get the full picture about Miss Gs situation at the time it advanced the loan. But Ive 
not made a finding about whether the checks it did were reasonable as I dont need to.   
Ive outlined the repayments Miss G was due to make above. I think its reasonable to say 
the repayments were significant given the size of them and the term of the loan. What is 
most relevant from the information shown at the point of sale is the other debt that Miss G 
had. 
She already had one other high cost loan which had a monthly repayment of £176. She had 
other credit cards, which had lower balances, that took her monthly repayments to around 
£330 per month. Adding in in the Everyday loan repayment took her total outlay to expensive 
forms of credit, assuming she only paid the minimum to her credit cards, to around £460 a 
month. Everyday was aware of this other debt from the information it had gathered about 
Miss G. 
This is a very high amount which only left her with very modest amount for any other 
expenditure she may have had. And given the longer-term nature of the loans, and that she 
was only making the minimum repayments to her credit cards, this situation would persist for 
some time. 
Given all of this I dont think its reasonable to say that Miss G was likely to be able to 
sustainably repay this lending. And this was borne out in practice when it seems she was still 
making repayments to loan some 14 years later. 
So, I think that Everyday shouldnt have given this loan to Miss G and I think shes lost out 
as a result of this. Im upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Putting things right
Everyday shouldnt have given Miss G this loan.
If Everyday has sold any outstanding debts Everyday should buy these back if it is able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If Everyday is not able to buy the debts back then 
Everyday should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Everyday should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss G towards 
interest, fees and charges on the loan if it doesnt have an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B) Everyday should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss 
G which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) If the loan still has an outstanding balance Everyday should remove all interest, fees and 
charges from the balance, and treat any repayments made by Miss G as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on the outstanding loans. If this results in Miss G having 
made overpayments then Everyday should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Everyday should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Miss G. Everyday shouldnt pursue outstanding balances 
made up of principal it has already written-off.E) Everyday should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Gs credit file in 
relation to this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. Everyday 
should give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax Everyday has deducted, if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Everyday Lending Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman