DRN-2116739
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited set up a claim against 
their motor insurance policy.
The complaint was brought by Mr P and so to keep things clear, Ill refer to Mr P alone 
throughout rather than both him and Mrs P.
What happened
Mr Ps car was damaged in an incident when a wall fell on it. Mr P said as follows. He only 
phoned Admiral for advice about the incident and didnt want to make a claim under his 
policy, but they wrongly set one up. This meant that his insurance increased by about £400, 
his no claims discount (NCD) reduced from twenty-five years, and hed have to declare the 
incident to insurers for the next three years. He felt that this was unfair when the incident 
wasnt his fault. He wanted Admiral to refund the premium increase, clear his name on his 
insurance record, and reinstate his NCD.
Admiral said they needed to log the damage incident because it took place, even though Mr 
P wasnt claiming for it, as it affected their risk and so the policy premium too. They felt 
theyd correctly noted the incident as notification only on the insurance claims and 
underwriting database. They said Mr P had thirteen years NCD with them, not twenty-five 
years, as hed not shown them proof of that. And although they at first reduced his thirteen 
years NCD to twelve, they later reinstated it, so he wasnt prejudiced. 
   
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Admiral hadnt acted unfairly. As Mr P didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P said he only wanted to let Admiral know about the incident, as his policy required, but 
he didnt want to claim. Neither he nor his wife were in the car, and they hadnt done 
anything wrong. So he was unhappy that his premium still went up so much. 
It was right for Mr P to tell Admiral about the incident. Thats because in his policy on page 
13 section 2, it says that the policyholder must tell Admiral immediately if they or a named 
driver on the policy is involved in an accident or suffer a loss, no matter how trivial and even 
if you do not wish to make a claim. Its common for insurers to treat an incident itself, 
regardless of whose fault it is, as a risk factor affecting the premium. This is even if the 
policyholder doesnt make a claim. Admiral are entitled to know about matters that might 
affect the risk, and to take them into account in setting or changing the premium they charge. 
This is a commercial decision for insurers, and not one in which we get involved. As the 
investigator explained, its not part of our role to tell insurers what terms and conditions they 
should include. Its up to a consumer, when they take out a policy, to decide if they agree 
with its terms. Nor can we tell insurers how they should calculate premiums or what factors 
they should take into account when assessing the risk. The investigator also explained that 
the way in which premiums and increases are calculated is complex, and that an insurers 
risk assessment is statistically based and could involve a number of factors. However we do 
expect insurers to apply the same approach fairly and consistently to all consumers.
 
The investigator asked Admiral for evidence that theyd done this and analysed their 
response. That information is also commercially sensitive, so we cant share Admiral 
information with Mr P. However the investigator thought that the premium increase was 
assessed properly and applied fairly and consistently to all customers. Admiral hadnt made 
a mistake or treated Mr P consumers differently from any other consumers in a similar 
situation. Having looked at the evidence Admiral sent us, I agree with that.  
I also think that Admiral have recorded the incident correctly on the claims and underwriting 
insurance database as notification only.  And though Mr P felt that theyd reduced his NCD, 
when Mr P took out the policy he hadnt shown them anything to support the claim of twenty-
five years, and so theyd given him an NCD of thirteen years.  And though they did at first 
reduce that NCD by a year, they later changed it back to the original thirteen years, so he 
wasnt worse off because of the incident.
I do sympathise with Mr P. Its very unfortunate that his premium increased due to an 
incident which was no fault of his own. But as I explained above, its a feature of insurance 
that an insurers risk assessment may change because of an incident, even if the 
policyholder isnt to blame, and even if they dont make a claim. So in all the circumstances I 
dont think that Admiral has acted unfairly or unreasonably, and I dont require them to do 
anything different.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
