DRN-3014281
The complaint
Mr G complains Santander UK Plc declined a claim he made under the direct debit 
guarantee. He wants it to refund the payment and to know why his claim was rejected.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr G made a claim to Santander under the Direct Debit Guarantee 
scheme. He had a direct debit mandate to his mobile phone provider. He was unhappy that 
a payment of £152.22 had been taken from his account by direct debit.
Santander temporarily credited his account with the full amount, whilst it raised the claim 
with the mobile phone provider.
Later in February 2021, it withdrew the full amount from Mr Gs account. He contacted 
Santander and they told him his claim under the scheme had been unsuccessful. 
Santander told Mr G that his claim had been unsuccessful as the mobile phone provider had 
provided evidence to our mandates team that the amount taken from your account of 
£152.22 was correct.
Mr G was unhappy with Santanders response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
said they treated him like a child, and as if he was stupid. He also felt their treatment of him 
amounted to discrimination.
Our investigator said that Santander dealt appropriately with Mr Gs direct debit claim, and 
that they were right to refer him back to the mobile phone provider if he was unhappy with 
the amount of the payment.
But she didnt think Santander treated him fairly. She felt they were rude to Mr G in their 
phone calls, and said they didnt grasp how their treatment made him feel. She said they 
should pay Mr G £175 for the upset they caused him.
Santander disagreed. They said they had followed the correct process. They said they 
understood why this may have upset Mr G and offered £50 to put things right. Mr G declined 
the offer as insulting. So the matter has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time.
Im satisfied that Santander dealt appropriately with Mr Gs claim under the direct debit 
guarantee scheme. The Direct Debit Guarantee gives protection to consumers when a 
mistake is made with a payment that was made by Direct Debit. This could be where a 
payment is taken on the wrong date, or if the wrong amount is collected.
The scheme doesnt help when there is a dispute between the consumer and the 
organisation taking the payment  in this case Mr G and the mobile phone provider.
Santander made the claim, and temporarily recredited the full amount to Mr G whilst it waited 
for the response from the mobile phone provider. When it provided Santander with a copy of 
the invoice it had issued to Mr G, Santander correctly declined the claim, withdrew the funds 
from Mr Gs account, and paid the amount to the mobile phone provider.
They also advised Mr G that if he was unhappy with the amount on the invoice, then that 
was something he needed to raise with the mobile phone provider.
But I think they couldve done more to help Mr G understand why they didnt uphold his 
claim.
Ive listened to the calls Mr G had with Santander in February 2021. I dont think they took 
the opportunity to properly listen to Mr Gs complaint. Hed explained his issue during the 
call. And it was clear that he was upset by the situation. Santander described him as quite 
irritated. 
But they didnt make any effort to explore what Mr G wanted from them. He was told he 
couldnt raise a new complaint as he didnt have any new information. They told him he 
could go to the Financial Ombudsman. And he could go to the phone provider. Whilst these 
statements may be accurate, I felt they were said in a dismissive fashion, with the sole 
intention of ending the call. When he said he may go to Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Santander replied yes thats your next place to go, okay, thank you, thank you, bye bye, bye 
bye  whilst Mr G was still talking.
Im satisfied there was no effort to explain fully to Mr G why they had rejected his complaint. 
Its clear from his call that he was unhappy that the phone provider had charged him for 
something he felt he wasnt liable for. And he didnt understand what evidence Santander 
received or had relied on to reject his claim under the guarantee scheme. Santander on this 
occasion didnt make any effort to explain or even properly engage with Mr G.
I can see why Mr G feels so strongly about how he was treated by Santander. The problem 
may have been started with his phone provider, but he went to Santander for help. He went 
there as he feels money was taken from his account without his authority.  Santander made 
no attempt to explain why they couldnt help, dismissing him with appeared to me to be a 
not our problem response to his complaint.
He said he felt discriminated against. And that he was treated like a child and made to feel 
stupid. I cant say that he was discriminated against, but I do feel that Santander were rude, 
and curt in their call to him. He was spoken over, and there was no effort to discuss Mr Gs 
concerns with him. I can understand why he felt so angry and upset after this call.
Putting things right
Santander should pay Mr G £175 in recognition of the distress theyve caused him.  My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc and require them to pay Mr G £175 for the 
distress caused by their actions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman