DRN-2729823
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain HDI Global Specialty SE has unfairly declined a claim made under 
their Home Buyers Protection Failed Residential Transaction Insurance policy. 
For ease, when I refer to HDI, this includes reference to the acts or omissions of its claim 
handlers, or other parties working on its behalf. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr and Mrs O had put in an offer to buy a property which had been accepted. 
At around the same time they took out the Home Buyers Protection policy. They instructed 
conveyancing solicitors, who informed them at the end of April 2020, that the property had 
previously contained asbestos and there wasnt any subsequent written documentation to 
confirm it had been removed, even though the seller said it had. After further discussions 
with the conveyancer, Mr and Mrs O decided to withdraw from the sale because of that. 
They submitted a claim under the insurance policy for their lost costs to date. The claim was 
declined as it wasnt covered under the terms of the insurance.  Mr and Mrs O complained 
but the decision to decline the claim stood. Our investigator was also satisfied HDI had 
declined the claim fairly, as she wasnt persuaded Mr and Mrs O had shown they were 
claiming for an insured event under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs O have asked for the matter to be reviewed. They say there was no proof the 
asbestos had been removed and disposed of in the correct manner; and they couldnt obtain 
a survey due to the pandemic and lockdown. They also question whether a survey, had they 
been able to arrange one, would have discovered whether all of the asbestos had been 
removed. They would like these questions answered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand and accept the existence of asbestos can be very worrying, particularly given 
the health issues associated with it. And to that end I can understand why Mr and Mrs O 
didnt want to proceed with the property purchase without being sure the asbestos had been 
removed. But my role isnt to second guess what a surveyor may have found had a survey 
been conducted, or to second guess whether the seller had carried out the work they said 
they had. Rather, my role is to decide whether HDI has fairly handled the claim. 
I can only ask HDI to cover the claim, or reconsider it, if I find it has been declined incorrectly 
(i.e. not in accordance with the policy terms and conditions) or if the terms and conditions 
have been applied unfairly and/or unreasonably. 
The starting position is the policy document which sets out the level of cover provided and 
under what circumstances a claim can be made, including any exclusions or limitations. 
The policy explains what incidents are covered, at Insured Incidents, which says:
What you are covered for
The insurer will pay costs and expenses up to £1,000 following your failure to buy 
the residential property which arises as a result of:
b) Your withdrawal from purchase
    You having to withdraw from the purchase of the residential property due to:
(i) An adverse legal search;
Please note that:
The adverse legal search must not have been known to you before 
your offer was accepted and before those search results were 
received by you; and
The adverse legal search must restrict your legal right to sell the 
residential property at a future date, or reveals that some areas of  
the residential property do not have sufficient planning permission 
or legal permissions and these areas would need to be removed. 
(ii) A survey which considers that structural defects exists, which require 
remedial work to be undertaken on the residential property and the cost of 
which is likely to be more than 10% of the sum you have offered;
Please note that it must be reasonably likely that you were not aware that 
any such structural defects existed when your offer was accepted and when 
the survey was commissioned;
(iii) the mortgage lenders valuation of the residential property being less than 
90% of the sum offered by you, 
please note that the survey must have a full professional valuation attached 
which shows the difference in value. 
Although cover is provided for in other situations, such as the seller withdrawing from the 
sale, I havent set these out as they arent relevant to my consideration. Words in bold get 
the definition provided for in the policy. Adverse legal search is defined as:
Where one or more of the following:
a) Regulated and Official Drainage Search;
b) Regulated and Official Local Authority Search;
c) Local Land Charges search;
d) Land Registry Search; and/or
e) Any other relevant searches;
reveal an issue(s) concerning the residential property which prohibits or is seriously 
detrimental to you being able to buy that residential property. This includes (but is 
not strictly limited to) planning constraints/permissions, rights of way, location of 
public sewers, lack of mains drainage, landslips, subsidence, contaminated land, 
mining, chancel repair liability, restrictions on the use of land and enforcement 
notices which affect the residential property.
As a result of this search, the issue revealed must restrict your legal right to the sell 
the residential property at a later date, or the issue reveals that some areas of the 
residential property do not have sufficient planning permission or legal permissions 
and these areas would need to be removed. And survey is defined as:
A document provided to you by a RICS registered surveyor or a surveyor instructed 
by your mortgage lender which details the physical condition of the residential 
property and any remedial works that are required on the residential property. 
Mr and Mrs Os conveyancer received, from the seller, a copy of an Asbestos Management 
Survey (AMS) which had been carried out by a company that specialises in asbestos 
management. That survey was carried out in September 2016. Mr and Mrs O were worried 
the property still contained asbestos as there wasnt any written documentation to confirm its 
removal, and I note their suggestion that asbestos might still have been present. This was 
despite the seller explaining they had removed the asbestos and renovated the property. 
I do accept, in the absence of such documentation, that the seller might not have removed 
all of the asbestos as declared.  However, it seems to me that neither Mr and Mrs O as 
prospective buyers, or the seller, has shown one way or the other, whether the property 
does still have asbestos. Any concerns or submissions Mr and Mrs O have made about not 
all of the asbestos being removed is speculation on their part. But even if I accept what they 
said, they still wouldnt have a valid claim under the policy. 
Putting to one side whether this survey meets the definition required in the policy, as shown 
above any withdrawal as a result of a survey needs to be because of the considered 
existence of structural defects which would likely cost more than 10% of the offer value to 
put right. The existence of asbestos is not a structural defect (which is generally accepted as 
damage to load bearing walls or floors) and even if it was, Mr and Mrs O havent shown it 
would likely cost them more that £26,000 to put right (I understand this is around 10% of the 
offer price). So Im not persuaded they have shown they have a valid claim under (ii). 
I have considered whether (i) is applicable. I think it clear the AMS doesnt meet any of the 
searches set out above a)-d). And Im not persuaded e) is applicable either, given the 
information wasnt come by as a result of a search, as such. But even if Im wrong about 
that, Mr and Mrs O still dont have a valid claim under (i). I say this because the issue 
revealed must restrict the legal right to sell the property at a later date. Although I agree Mr 
and Mrs O might have difficulty selling a property in the future that contained asbestos 
(which is unknown) and they might need to declare the existence of asbestos in any sale, 
but that is very different to having their legal rights to sell restricted  Im not aware of any 
legal restriction that applies to selling a house that contains asbestos. So even if I agreed 
that Mr and Mrs O had had an adverse legal search, which I dont, they still wouldnt meet 
the requirements needed for a valid claim under (i).  
That leaves (iii) and Im not aware that Mr and Mrs O had a mortgage valuation, which 
valued the property at less than 90% of what Mr and Mrs O had offered for it. Therefore (iii) 
isnt applicable either. 
I know Mr and Mrs O have made arguments about not being able to get a survey completed. 
But as they themselves said, it isnt clear what a survey would have shown had they been 
able to commission one. So Im not persuaded this has any real bearing on my 
consideration; I dont think I could fairly or reasonably ask an insurer to meet a claim based 
on pure speculation. Having considered the matter very carefully, and realising this will come 
as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs O, Im not persuaded HDI has done anything wrong in 
declining the claim, as Im not persuaded the event they are claiming for is covered under 
the terms of the policy. It follows that I wont be asking it to meet the claim or reconsider it. 
  
My final decisionFor the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman