DRN-3947833
The complaint
Mr D and Miss W complained that their escape of water claim has been unfairly delayed by 
Zurich Insurance PLC under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D and Miss W made a claim on their policy when a leak caused extensive damage at 
their property. Zurich appointed a loss adjuster to review the damage and validate the claim.
Following the claim, a period of around two and a half months elapsed where Zurich carried 
out significant intelligence searches into the claim and policyholders. The damage was 
reviewed, and repairs were estimated in the region of £30-40,000. Mr D and Miss W were 
interviewed about the claim.
When the claim was made there were three separate aspects to it, that all occurred around 
the same time. Mr D and Miss W are unhappy that none of these aspects have been settled 
and they think their claim has been unfairly delayed.
Zurich acknowledge the claim hasnt been straightforward. However, it has said it hasnt 
been able to progress with the settlement of the claim as Mr D and Miss W havent provided 
the information theyve requested to allow full validation of the claim to occur. Zurich said 
until it is furnished with this information, it is unable to consider the claim further.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought the information Zurich had 
requested was reasonable. As Mr D and Miss W wouldnt provide the information requested 
he didnt think Zurich could reasonably do anymore to progress the claim. Mr D and Miss W 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the details of this complaint and the timeline of the claim, Im not upholding 
this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr D and Miss W, so I will explain how I have 
reached this decision.
Zurich, like any other insurer, have the right to properly validate the details of a claim. When 
it offered insurance cover, it did so at a set premium / price and based this on certain risks it 
was prepared to take. In essence it was making a judgement of how likely it was Mr D and 
Miss W would make a claim. Therefore, when validating the claim, Zurich will check a wide 
range of information sources, including checking Mr D and Miss W properly presented their 
circumstances when taking out the policy to ensure it wasnt misinformed about the risks it 
was taking.
Zurich will also have validated the circumstances of the claim itself to ensure the details 
presented by Mr D and Miss W are consistent with whats been claimed for. To do this, its 
normal for insurers to ask many questions to understand whats happened. In this claim, the 
cost of the repairs was high, so its not unsurprising that Zurich wanted to do a thorough 
validation.
In any claim there will be inconvenience suffered by the policyholder. This isnt the insurers 
fault, unfortunately, its caused by the incident itself. Whilst, I think the validations did take 
some time, I can also see that there were some concerns Zurich had during this process. 
So, I dont think its a surprise the initial validation took longer as Zurich tried to understand 
these inconsistencies.
I can see following an interview of Mr D and Miss W in February 2022, Zurich asked them for 
some further information to support their investigations. The questions asked of them were 
specifically:
1. Name and contact details for her friend / plumber who carried out the repair to the boiler / 
water cylinder.
2. Copies of any reports and invoices issued to her by your friend / plumber relating to both 
incidents and the replacement boiler system.
Given that the plumber carried out repairs to the affected area following the leak, I think 
these are reasonable questions for Zurich to ask, especially given some of the concerns I 
see it has raised about the claim.
I can see that Mr D and Miss W hasnt been able to provide all this information to Zurich or 
hasnt provided assurance to them through other means. Condition 2 of the policy sets out 
that Mr D and Miss W need to co-operate with Zurich in providing the information requested 
to allow the claim to be validated. As key information hasnt been provided, I dont think 
Zurich has been unfair in not progressing the claim further and settling it. I dont think it has 
caused delays. I think if Mr D and Miss W had provided the information requested, I think 
Zurich wouldve provided a conclusion to the claim. However, based on the evidence, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Mr D and Miss W said part of their claim couldve been settled. Zurich has explained how its 
concerns link to all aspects of the claim. Therefore, I dont think it can progress the claims 
separately until Mr D and Miss W provide the necessary information. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Zurich Insurance PLC to 
do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman