DRN-1866477
The complaint
Mr S isnt happy with the amount of compensation AXA France IARD (AXA) has offered to 
settle his complaint about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy attached to a store 
card.
In this case it has been agreed that AXA, as the insurer, take responsibility for the complaint. 
So Ill be referring to AXA throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr S took out a PPI policy alongside a store card in August 1988. In 2019, Mr S made a 
complaint that the PPI policy had been mis-sold. AXA agreed the policy was mis-sold and 
calculated how much it owed Mr S in compensation to try and put him in the financial 
position hed be in now if he hadnt had PPI on the account.
Due to the time that had passed AXA only held basic records about Mr S's account and PPI 
policy. Its computer records showed that the PPI policy ran from August 1988 until 
November 1989 and the last known premium Mr S was charged in November 1989 was 
£0.18. 
Given the lack of data available AXA said it didnt have enough records to accurately 
calculate how much Mr S had been charged for PPI. So it offered to pay Mr S £100. 
AXA said this amount was based on the average it would refund someone who had held a 
policy for a similar duration to Mr S.
Mr S thinks he should be paid around £2,000 in compensation. 
Our adjudicator looked at what AXA had offered and thought its offer was fair.
As Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, it's 
been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 AXA has already agreed to settle Mr Ss PPI mis-sale complaint. So I wont be looking at 
how the policy came to be sold  because thats not in dispute.
In this decision I will only be considering whether AXA has offered fair compensation. And 
having looked at AXAs offer of compensation, Im satisfied its fair. Ill explain why.
 
 Our approach to compensationWhen a business agrees to settle a PPI complaint, Id expect it to, as far as is possible, put 
the consumer in the position theyd be in now had they not taken the PPI policy.
With a PPI policy attached to a store card, Id expect a business to refund any overpayments 
a consumer made on the store card because of the PPI (typically PPI premiums and, if 
applicable, any associated interest charged on those PPI premiums), plus any fees/charges 
directly caused by the PPI and 8% simple interest per year  to compensate a consumer if 
they have been out of pocket.
The evidence available in this case
AXA held some information about Mr S's PPI policy. It knew the policy was in place from 
August 1988 until November 1989 and the last known premium Mr S was charged in 
November 1989, was £0.18.
Its understandable that AXA doesnt have full information and records (including statements) 
about Mr Ss account. The store card and PPI policy were taken out a very long time ago 
and businesses arent expected to keep records indefinitely.
AXA's offer of compensation
Because of the lack of data available, AXA wasn't able to accurately work out how much 
PPI had been charged on Mr S's store card account. But it offered to pay Mr S an average 
amount it paid consumers who held a similar policy for a similar amount of time.
In situations like this, where there isnt any further information that would enable AXA to 
calculate a more accurate offer, I would consider AXA's offer of an average amount in 
compensation, to be fair.
What it has offered may be more, or less, than what Mr S was charged. But all in all, and 
with no further information available, offering an average amount that it paid similar 
consumers who held the policy for a similar duration seems fair. 
Mr S believes he was owed around £2,000 in compensation. Mr S has calculated that 
amount by working out that he paid around £120 per year for PPI over 17 years. But that 
isn't the case. And that's because the records show Mr S's PPI policy was in place for 
around a year - and not 17 years as Mr S believes. 
All things considered, AXA's offer of a £100 seems fair and, as far as is possible, puts Mr S 
in the position as if he had never taken PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, AXA France IARD has offered Mr S fair compensation. And it 
doesnt need to do anything further.
 
 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.Matthew Horner
Ombudsman