DRN-3471230
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Everyday Lending Limited was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In May 2015 Everyday Lending provided Mr B with a loan of £2,500 repayable over 24 
months with a monthly repayment of £138.98.
Mr B complained that the loan was unaffordable. Everyday Lending looked into his 
complaint. It said it had carried out proper checks and it thought the loan was affordable. 
Mr B referred his complaint to us. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She thought the 
checks carried out by Everyday Lending were proportionate but she didnt think the loan was 
affordable. 
As Everyday Lending didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Bs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr B would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr B wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Everyday Lending carried out some checks before it lent to Mr B. These included asking for 
details of his income and expenditure, carrying out a credit check, requesting a payslip and 
bank statements. It calculated Mr Bs regular living expenses using statistical data and 
assessed his monthly credit commitments. Ive seen a summary of the information gathered 
by Everyday Lending, including the credit report and bank statements provided to it at the 
time. From what Ive seen, I think the checks that it carried out before lending to Mr B were 
reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances.
Everyday Lending established that Mr Bs average monthly income was £1,602.39 and he 
was paying £400 in rent. It calculated his other living expenses were £560.83 . He was due 
to pay £238.41 on his existing credit commitments. Everyday Lending estimated that Mr B 
would have a monthly disposable income of £219.16 after taking into account his new loan 
repayment of £138.98. 
The credit search showed that Mr B owed £3,365 over eight accounts. He had a county 
court judgment of £1,848 from the previous year which he was repaying at a rate of £10 a 
week. There were four defaults registered against him from 2008 to 2015. Two months prior 
to his application hed missed repayments on three accounts.
The bank statements Mr B gave Everyday Lending for March and April 2015 dont show the 
credit repayments that it would have expected to see from its credit search. In addition the 
payments Mr B did make to his credit card providers were made using his debit card as 
opposed to direct debit. That might indicate Mr B was choosing to pay less than the minimum amount due and/or make the payments at a time when the funds were available in 
his bank account as I note that several direct debits were returned unpaid. I think this was at 
odds with the amount of disposable income Everyday Lending calculated Mr B should have.
On balance I think the information from Mr Bs bank statement and the recent missed 
repayments should have made Everyday Lending realise that Mr B was probably not going 
to be in a position to sustainably repay the loan repayments of £138.98 over the next two 
years, given that he already seemed to be over-stretched financially. So I dont think 
Everyday Lending treated Mr B fairly when it agreed to lend to him.
Ive also thought about whether Everyday Lending acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
If Everyday Lending has sold the loan, it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take 
the following steps. If Everyday Lending is not able to buy the loan back, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
I understand Mr B is subject to an Individual Involuntary Arrangement (IVA) and his 
Insolvency Practitioner has told us they have an interest in any refund due to him. I 
therefore, remind all parties to ensure that any refund is processed in line with the terms as 
set out in the IVA.  
As I have concluded Everyday Lending shouldnt have provided the loan, it should:
refund all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
treat any payments made by Mr B as payments towards the capital amount of £2,500;
If Mr B has paid more than the capital, then any overpayments should be refunded to him 
with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement;
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday Lending should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr B; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and require Everyday Lending 
Limited to put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman