DRN-2692370
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance Plc repaired her property following a claim 
under her property investors insurance policy after her property suffered water damage.
What happened
Mrs E made a claim to AXA after water got into her tenanted residential property as a result 
of the level of an access drive alongside the property being raised in 2012.
AXA accepted the claim and installed a tank membrane to the walls and floor as well as a 
pump system to stop water getting in. 
In 2017 Mrs E made another water damage claim following a leak from the bathroom. As 
part of that claim AXA replaced the tank membrane as it had been damaged when the floor 
was taken up.
Mrs E says there have been problems with condensation and mould in the property ever 
since the tank membrane was put in by AXA. She says as a result she keeps losing tenants. 
She thinks AXA should have also installed a mechanical ventilation system. 
Mrs E brought her complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I 
was minded to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
When deciding this sort of complaint, I rely on expert evidence as to the cause of the 
damage complained about.
AXAs restoration company reported in 2013, prior to the tanking being fitted, that there 
were problems with condensation at the property. The technician noted that Mrs E had 
recently had uPVC windows installed in the property and the external brickwork was 
rendered and painted. He thought these measures had reduced the natural airflow in the 
property. He said there was little or no natural ventilation. 
AXA then instructed a damp-proofing expert. He advised:
When you are dealing with confined basement areas with poor or restricted ventilation then 
you may consider the risk of condensation and the introduction of mechanical extraction 
systems with humidistat sensors. This is imperative if a totally dry environment is required.
.
I appreciate that Mrs Es property isnt a basement. But based on the comments above Im, 
satisfied that AXA was aware that it had poor ventilation.
In the notes at the end of the survey report theres a recommendation that the heating and 
ventilation be improved to control condensation.
The manufacturer of the tanking system used in Mrs Es property recognises that ventilation 
can be a problem because tanking means the property is very air-tight and condensation 
cant get out satisfactorily. It recommends that mechanical ventilation is included with the 
installation design of all its waterproofing systems.
When AXA sent a surveyor back to the property in 2018 they found that the tenant didnt 
have the heating on. They thought this had caused the problem with condensation. Based 
on everything Ive seen, I dont think this was by any means certain although the failure to 
heat the property probably wouldnt have helped.
In my opinion as there were pre-existing problems with condensation due to poor ventilation, 
AXA should have realised that tanking the whole of the ground floor of the property without 
mechanical ventilation would have made the problem worse. It had a duty under the policy 
to carry out an effective and lasting repair. To my mind that means carrying out works in 
accordance with the manufacturers recommendation. If its repair meant that the 
condensation issues were reasonably likely to become worse, then I think it should have 
installed a mechanical ventilation system at the same time as the tanking was put in. To put 
things right it should now arrange for that work to be done.
Mrs E has had ongoing problems with tenants complaining about condensation and mould. I 
think this will have caused her a degree of unnecessary stress and inconvenience. I think 
AXA should pay her £100 compensation for this. 
AXA said the property was suffering from condensation issues prior to any works being 
undertaken by it. Whilst the original claim was considered to be the result of the damp 
proof course being affected by the resurfacing of the next door driveway, it said evidence 
had been presented in the course of recovery to show that damp issues pre-dated this. It 
thought Mrs E would end up better off if AXA were to install a mechanical ventilation 
system and said she wasnt entitled to that. It pointed out that AXA had already paid more 
than the sum insured.
Mrs E thought the amount of compensation was inadequate because the issue was a 
serious one which had gone on for a very long time. She said the stress and inconvenience 
had affected her health. I reconsidered this and told AXA I was minded to award her £500 
compensation. AXA didnt comment on this.
She also provided evidence that shed incurred £1,218.48 of unnecessary expenses due to 
failings on the part of AXA. These were £84 and £75 spent on damp experts to investigate 
the condensation at the property, £256 for a repair to an air vent, £210 for a check and 
service of the pump, £530 for a new window to improve ventilation and £63.48 on passive 
air vents. AXA agreed to pay these expenses.
She also said shed also lost money by her tenants vacating the property early and having 
to re-let the property. AXA agreed to pay her nine months loss of rent at £950 a month.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA knows that where work has to be done to ensure a proper and lasting repair, this 
service will normally find such work the only fair solution even if the consumer does end up 
with more than the policy strictly entitles them to. So, if a mechanical ventilation system had 
to be installed in order to prevent the pre-existing problems with condensation in the property 
from getting worse, then AXA should have done that to ensure a proper and lasting repair. 
To put things right it should now do that.When AXA chose to settle the claim by repairing the insured property, a building or repair 
contract was created. And because of that (except in circumstances not relevant here) its 
required to complete the work regardless of the cost. It doesnt matter if the repair costs 
more than was originally estimated or if it costs more than the sum insured. 
Over the years Mrs E has had to spend a lot of time dealing with complaints from the tenants 
and letting agent about the state of the property. At one stage a tenant threatened to report 
her to the environmental health officer. This would have been very stressful for her. She also 
had the inconvenience of arranging several repairs which turned out to be unnecessary in an 
attempt to resolve the condensation issues. She says the stress has affected her health. Im 
sorry to hear this. Overall, I think the sum of £500 is appropriate to compensate Mrs E for the 
trouble and upset AXA has caused her.
AXA paid Mrs E loss of rent for the period when the repairs were carried out. But she has 
produced evidence that from 2015 the property was let several times on a 12 month 
tenancy. Each time the tenants left early. In most cases theres evidence that problems with 
condensation and mould influenced the tenants decision. Its hard to be precise about how 
much loss of rent Mrs E has lost because she was often able to re-let the property without 
too much delay. Buts clear to me that the condition of the property for which I hold AXA 
responsible did lead to void periods. I calculate that from 2015 these void periods equate to 
about nine months at an average rent of £950. In order to treat Mrs E fairly I think AXA 
should pay her £8,550 to compensate her for the additional loss of rent.
There were associated fees for each new tenancy such as letting agents fees, inventory 
costs etc. But I cant be sure that these costs were incurred directly as a result of AXAs 
failings. So I dont think it would be fair to make AXA bear them.
Putting things right
To put things right I think AXA should install a mechanical ventilation system in Mrs Es 
property. It should also pay her £10,268.48 being £1,218.48 in respect of works she had 
carried out, £500 compensation for trouble and upset and £8,550 for loss of rent. AXA 
should also pay Mrs E simple interest at 8% on the expenses of £1,218.48 from the date she 
paid them to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance Plc to:
install a mechanical ventilation system in Mrs Es property; 
pay her £10,268.48; and
simple interest at 8% on the expenses of £1,218.48 from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.

If AXA Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from any interest due to Mrs E, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs E a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman