DRN-3170277
The complaint
Miss J complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) increased the 
credit limit on her account without her permission - and that this put her into financial 
difficulties. 
What happened
Miss J opened a mail order account with Very on 16 August 2017. Her credit limit was 
initially set at £150. On 14 June 2018 Very increased this limit to £250. And on 5 January 
2019 they increased it to £750. 
Miss J complained that Very had acted irresponsibly by increasing her credit limit even 
though she was making minimum payments or late payments. She said this caused her to 
get into debt  and to borrow more money to pay her bills. Very didnt uphold her complaint, 
so Miss J asked us to look into things for her. 
Our investigator said Very didnt need Miss Js permission to increase her credit limit, but 
that they were required to make sure they didnt provide credit irresponsibly. He said Very 
had carried out a credit check, but he hadnt been able to take this into account because he 
hadnt been provided with any information about what it would have shown. 
After looking at the way Miss J had previously handled her account and the amount of credit 
involved, the investigator said he didnt think Very had acted irresponsibly. He said he hadnt 
seen any evidence showing Very should have been aware that Miss J was struggling 
financially. 
Miss J disagreed. She said the fact that she was only making minimum payments against a 
high outstanding balance showed that she was struggling to pay. She said shed reached or 
gone over her credit limit with other lenders - and that factors such as her very low income 
had never been checked.
Miss J said the increases in her credit limit allowed her to spend more during depressive 
episodes. She said shed told Very many times that she suffered with severe anxiety and 
depression. 
Very said they felt Miss Js financial difficulties had been caused by an increase in the 
amount shed borrowed from other lenders. The case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen conflicting information as to whether Miss J requested changes to her credit limit. 
Very initially told us that theyd approved a credit limit of £500 when the account was first 
opened, but Miss J had immediately asked them to reduce this to £150. Miss J says she 
requested this reduction because she was living on benefits of less than £500 per month. 
She says she had no history of credit at that time and didnt want to be trusted with such a 
huge amount with the little money she was receiving. 
Very later told us that they have no record of any request from Miss J to reduce her credit 
limit. They said she made an online request for her credit limit to be increased to £250 in 
June 2018. I havent seen any evidence to confirm this. Having listened to what both parties 
have told us, on balance, I think it most likely that Miss J did ask for her credit limit to be 
reduced to £150 to start with. And I think its most likely that Miss J requested the increase to 
£250, which Very later increased to £750. Ive gone on to review the rules that applied here.
The rules lenders must follow are set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). These can 
be found in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), available on the FCAs website. Ive 
seen nothing in these rules to prevent Very making a substantial increase to Miss Js credit 
limit without her agreement. But before doing so, they were required to carry out a 
creditworthiness assessment. This meant making reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy themselves that shed be able to make the required repayments in a sustainable way.
 
These checks werent just about how likely it was that Very would get their money back  
they had to focus on whether making the repayments would adversely affect Miss Js 
financial situation. There were a number of factors that might affect how extensive the 
checks needed to be, such as the type and amount of credit, Miss Js financial position, her 
credit history, and other financial commitments. Our website gives more information about 
how we decide whether lenders checks were proportionate. 
Very have provided a copy of the information they obtained when Miss J applied to open the 
account. Ive seen that they checked with a credit reference agency, which confirmed that 
she was receiving at least the amount of income shed declared. 
Very have told us that, before increasing Miss Js credit limit, they reviewed how well she 
was managing her account. Theyve provided evidence confirming Miss J appeared to 
manage things well in the period before the first credit limit increase. I say this because Ive 
seen no evidence of any late or missed payments, and she was paying much more than the 
minimum required amount each month.
Very have also provided a copy of the information they obtained from two credit reference 
agencies. Ive seen that the agencies reported Miss J to have no missed payments, defaults 
or county court judgments in the months leading up to June 2018. 
Having reviewed all of the information Very looked at, Ive seen nothing that should have 
given cause for concern that increasing Miss Js credit limit to £250 would have been 
unaffordable for her. So, I dont consider Very to have acted irresponsibly here. 
Very have told us that, before they increased the credit limit again in January 2019, they 
were satisfied that Miss J was up to date with payments and her account was free from 
arrears. Ive reviewed the account information they looked at.
Verys records show that they applied a credit limit freeze to the account in August 2018 for 
affordability reasons. The following month, Miss J told them she hadnt been able to make 
the required minimum payment on time. In October 2018 she made payments totalling 
£189.99, bringing her payments up to date. 
The credit reference agency information Very obtained showed that, by December 2018, 
Miss J owed just under £3,500 across all of her accounts. Although she was shown as 
having missed one payment, Ive seen no evidence of her being in arrears or default on any 
of her accounts. I dont dispute what Miss J has told us about having reached or gone over 
her credit limit on her other accounts. But as I cant see any evidence of this in the information the credit reference agencies provided to Very, I cant say they should have 
known about this.
I bear in mind Miss Js initial request for a low credit limit. But Ive also noted that the 
account had been operating for almost 17 months by the time it was increased to £750. As 
this was still a relatively small amount of credit, Im satisfied the checks Very had carried out 
were proportionate. And I havent seen anything in the information those checks revealed 
that should have given cause for concern about Miss Js ability to afford the repayments. So 
I cant say Very did anything wrong by increasing her credit limit to £750.
Ive seen evidence showing Miss J borrowed more money from other lenders in March 2019. 
Verys records confirm that, from June 2019 onwards, she was no longer managing to make 
the required repayments on her account. But based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say 
that Very should have known Miss Js financial situation was likely to deteriorate when they 
approved the credit limit increase in January 2019.
Miss J says she told Very shed been struggling with her mental health and hadnt thought 
about what she was doing. She says she repeated this many times when they phoned her 
about late payments, but she cant remember when this would have been. 
I appreciate this has been a very difficult time for Miss J. But having carefully reviewed all 
the available evidence, I havent seen anything showing Miss J told Very she was concerned 
about spending too much when she was feeling depressed  or that increasing her credit 
limit was likely to make things worse for her. So I cant say Very should have taken this into 
account when they reviewed her credit limit. For that reason, Im unable to say that theyve 
treated her unfairly. 
My final decision
I realise this wont be the outcome Miss J is hoping for. But for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman