DRN-4254635
The complaint
Mr M complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank requires him to carry a 
mobile phone at all times in case it has to check a transaction.
What happened
Mr M has a credit card issued by Tesco Bank and is in his 80s. Hes had an account with 
Tesco Bank for many years.
Mr M contacted Tesco Bank to explain that he was going abroad on holiday. He says he was 
told he didnt need to call the bank to explain that he was going abroad but that he might 
need his mobile to confirm transactions.
In May 2023, Mr M complained saying that Tesco Bank expected him to have his mobile 
phone with him at all times. He said that he wasnt that kind of person, and that it was 
unreasonable of Tesco Bank to expect him to have his phone with him at all times. He said 
Tesco Bank was discriminating against him, and that he was concerned that he might not be 
able to rely on being able to use his credit card on holiday. He said he wanted Tesco Bank to 
guarantee that it would honour his card  without needing to contact him for confirmation  at 
least when hes on a nominated holiday.
Tesco Bank investigated Mr Ts complaint and said that he should be able to use his credit 
card whilst he was on holiday, but that he might need his mobile to confirm transactions. 
Tesco Bank also said that their customers dont need to say when theyre going on holiday, 
and that to protect customer accounts it sometimes sends confirmations to mobiles to check 
the transactions being made.
Mr M was unhappy with Tesco Banks response and complained to us.
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint isnt about strong customer authentication and changes that Tesco Bank has 
made to its processes in order to implement new regulations that came into effect in 
September 2019 that affected the whole banking sector  namely the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Those regulations required payment service providers (PSPs) 
to apply strong customer authentication in certain circumstances. Thats important because 
the FCA has issued guidance on what it expects of firms when it comes to mobile phones 
and authentication. Those rules apply to online banking and online shopping, amongst other 
things. This complaint is instead about the steps Tesco Bank takes in the event that it has 
concerns that a customers account or card has been compromised. In other words, steps 
Tesco Bank takes to combat fraud.
I can understand why Mr M doesnt want to carry his mobile phone around with him all the 
time or might not always remember to do so. I accept that hes not the kind of person who 
has his mobile on him all the time. I dont, however, think its unreasonable of Tesco Bank to 
place a temporary block on his account  thats something its terms and conditions allow it to 
do  in the event that it has concerns that a customers account or card has been 
compromised. Nor, in the event that his account or card had been compromised, do I think 
Mr M would object  not least because such action could prevent him from becoming a 
victim of fraud. So, the issue is whether or not its unreasonable of Tesco Bank to send a 
message to Mr Ms mobile phone  or let him know by email or letter  if it suspects fraud. I 
agree with our investigator that this isnt unfair or unreasonable. Thats something all banks 
do. For those reasons, I agree that this isnt a complaint that I should be upholding.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman