DRN-3648620
The complaint
Ms R has complained that Retail Money Market Limited trading as RateSetter lent to her 
when it shouldnt have.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RateSetter is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time 
of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont 
repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that 
Ms R would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in 
CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
RateSetter has said disagreed with the adjudicator because the loan was for consolidation 
purposes and that should have left Ms R with disposable income. However, the loan amount 
was for £4,000 and Ms Rs outstanding debts, including car payments, credit card and 
overdrafts and loans were significantly higher than that.
Theres no evidence of what Ms R was looking to consolidate specifically and that 
RateSetter thought about this consolidation and how it would have impacted Ms Rs overall 
financial circumstances. Assuming Ms R consolidated her other loan, which had a balance of 
around £4,050, shed still be left to around £610 monthly payments towards her other credit 
that wont have been consolidated including the repayment of this loan.
Ms Rs income was recorded as £1,434.93 and she had to pay £649 towards her mortgage, 
so even without taking into account her other living costs and the fact she had two 
dependents at the point of the application, Ms R would only be left with £175.52 to cover her 
other living costs including supporting her two dependents. I think RateSetter should have 
known she was likely to struggle to repay the loan over the term and so it shouldnt have 
lent. 
Ms R has been given a loan when she shouldnt have and while I think its fair for her to 
repay the capital amount, shes paid interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have 
had and RateSetter needs to put this right.
Putting things right
To put things right for Ms R, RateSetter should:
remove all interest and charges applied to the loan, and
treat all payments Ms R has made as repayments towards the capital. If theres a 
surplus after doing the above, RateSetter should add interest at 8% per year simple on 
the surplus payments from the date they were paid, if they were, to the date of 
settlement;
if theres still a balance outstanding RateSetter should agree a suitable repayment plan 
with Ms R.
RateSetter should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ls credit file once 
the loan capital has been repaid.
HM Revenue & Customs requires RateSetter to take off tax from this interest. RateSetter must give 
Ms R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Ms Rs complaint. Retail Money Market Limited 
trading as RateSetter should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman