DRN-3364613
The complaint
Mr R complains that EUI Limited trading as Admiral (Admiral) unfairly recorded an incident 
on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R hit a pothole in his car in August 2020 causing some damage to a front wheel. He 
called Admiral to ask about making a claim under his motor insurance policy and it told him 
that the excess on his policy was £350. Mr R then arranged for the wheel to be repaired at a 
cost of around £120. The call was recorded on Admirals system as an incident with zero 
cost claimed, and was shared with an external database called the Claims Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE).
Mr R renewed his policy in 2021 and Admiral increased the price he was due to pay by 
about £200. Admiral said that customers who have told them about incidents are more likely 
to make a claim in future, so it considers all of these incidents when its calculating 
premiums. 
Mr R wasnt happy about the price increase and he complained to Admiral about it. 
Admiral also said it recorded all incidents reported to it, and shares them to CUE, even if the 
claim doesnt actually get made. It said it would be unable to remove this incident from the 
database and Mr R would need to tell other insurers about it. 
Mr R remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. He asks for the record 
of his notification to be expunged from CUE and he wants Admiral to change its approach for 
damage to wheels to be the same as for windscreen cover, where insurers usually do not 
consider claims to be material to the price at renewal. Mr R isnt happy that he will have to 
tell other insurers about this incident and it will affect the price he pays in the future.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. He said he couldnt ask 
Admiral to remove the record from CUE as it was a true record of what had happened and 
that the incident was of the sort that Admiral use to calculate their premiums. He said that 
Admiral didnt act unfairly and it had justified its approach. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why.
Our investigator has explained in his view that, as we are not the regulator, we do not have 
the powers to review the systems, policies or procedures of financial institutions. We look at 
individual complaints and ensure any error has been corrected, any financial loss made 
good and, if relevant, any compensation paid for distress and inconvenience caused.
As such, I cant tell Admiral to change the way it records incidents such as this one, or the 
way it uses that data to rate its premiums.
The terms of his policy required Mr R to tell Admiral about any type of incident, regardless 
of fault and I can see Mr R acted in accordance with that condition when he told Admiral 
about the pothole incident in August 2020. 
As a member of CUE, Admiral had a responsibility to accurately record any information 
about that incident on the CUE database. For context, CUE is a central database of 
incidents reported to insurance companies. The purpose of the database is to help identify 
misrepresentation and prevent fraud. If an insurer is signed up to CUE, itll make a record of 
any incident its made aware of  whether it leads to a claim or not. Admiral is bound to do 
that under the terms of CUE, and thats what it has done here.
Because Admiral have recorded details of this incident correctly on CUE, it wouldnt be fair 
for me to ask Admiral to remove them. I do appreciate that means that Mr Rs premiums may 
be affected for the next few years as other insurers also access CUE, but there was clearly 
an incident causing damage to his car and so he needed to tell Admiral about it.
In Admirals final response to Mr R it talks about how it calculates premiums, using factors 
such as claims, and incidents that may give rise to claims, like the one Mr R had. The way 
Admiral does this is very common across the motor insurance industry and I dont think its 
an unfair approach. Mr R may find that different insurers treat this particular incident 
differently when he explains it to them, which may have the impact of reducing his future 
premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman