DRN-2085755
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy at how Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) dealt with a claim 
against her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Bs property was damaged when, in March 2019, a car drove into it leaving it 
structurally unsound. She claimed against her home insurance policy with L&G, who 
authorised the claim and appointed contractors to manage the repairs. 
L&G paid Miss B a disturbance allowance but stopped this in November 2019 when they 
said her property was habitable. But Miss B disagreed  she said that some of the repairs 
were substandard, and other repairs hadnt been completed. L&G arranged for the 
contractor to do rectification work, but further work was needed after the repairs to the 
original substandard work were also not done to an acceptable level.
Miss B has complained that L&G discriminated against her by not making reasonable 
adjustments  shes unable to speak over the phone and L&G wouldnt let her deal with the 
claim by email only. Shes also complained about how the claim and repairs were dealt with, 
and because there was still unrepaired damage when she was able to return home.
L&G agreed that things couldve been handled better. And they agreed to repair most of the 
damage Miss B said was present  they didnt repair her drive as they said it hadnt been 
damaged in the original collision or by the contractors. In addition, L&G paid Miss B £300 
compensation for their poor handling of the claim. Miss B didnt accept the compensation 
L&G offered, and says she returned the cheque to them. Shes brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation. 
Our investigator agreed that L&G couldve done better. And he thought that L&G shouldve 
made reasonable adjustments for Miss B and insisting that someone else needed to discuss 
the claim on the phone on Miss Bs behalf wasnt acceptable.
The investigator didnt think the property was habitable when L&G said it was, but this was 
only because the carpets hadnt been fitted. And he said it was Miss Bs choice not to have 
this done until all of the repairs had been completed. So he didnt think L&G could be held 
responsible for this and he didnt think the disturbance allowance needed to be increased as 
a result. He also said hed seen no evidence that Miss Bs driveway had been damaged by 
the contractors, and he thought it was reasonable for L&G to rely on the experts 
assessment of the cause of the damage  general wear and tear.
He thought that the claim had gone on for longer that it should have, and that Miss Bs 
property hadnt been returned to its pre-claim condition as quickly as it could. He also 
thought that L&G hadnt fully recognised the upset and inconvenience theyd caused Miss B 
by insisting on speaking to her on the phone. So he said L&G should pay an additional £450 
compensation, taking the total to £750, as well as completing the repairs to her home.
L&G agreed with the investigator, but Miss B didnt. She said that the sheer number of 
project managers, contractors and sub-contractors involved in the claim meant she didnt 
have a direct communication route with L&G. And this caused major problems. Miss B has 
also explained in some detail what the contracts did, didnt do and shouldve done. She 
doesnt consider this to be unfortunate or an oversight, but substandard work.
To resolve her complaint Miss B would like for all of the outstanding work to be completed in 
a timely manner, and to an acceptable standard; for the disturbance allowance to be paid up 
to 28 February 2020; to be provided with a named contact at L&G; and to be suitably 
compensated. So this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
The main facts of this case arent in dispute. Miss Bs property was damaged when a car 
drove into it, and the repairs werent initially done to an acceptable standard. So my decision 
wont cover these facts but will instead concentrate on what still needs to be done, and 
whats an appropriate level of compensation for the distress, inconvenience and upset Miss 
B has suffered as a result of L&Gs handling of the claim.
Miss B had specific communication needs. Ive seen L&Gs claim notes, and under the 
heading Special Circumstances for Policyholder, these say hearing issues with ph. So Im 
satisfied that L&G knew Miss B had different needs and these shouldve been reasonably 
met. I dont think that insisting on discussing the claim over the phone with a third-party, 
even if it was Miss Bs partner, was acceptable. To do so wouldve caused Miss B additional 
distress and upset at what was already a distressing and upsetting time.
This was a large and complex claim. So Id expect there would be some inconvenience to 
Miss B, and possibly some additional damage caused. But Id expect L&G to compensate 
Miss B for this inconvenience, which they have done through the payment of a disturbance 
allowance. Id also expect L&G to restore the property to its pre-claim condition, and to repair 
any additional damage done to the property. And L&G have done / are doing this.
Miss B lived in the property with her partner and their child. L&G have said the disturbance 
allowance was £25 per day and was paid from 29 March to 29 October 2019, when she 
wasnt able to stay at the property. But Miss B feels this shouldve been paid up until 28 
February 2020 when the remedial work was supposedly completed.
Miss B was unhappy with the quality of the work thatd been done when she returned to 
property in October 2019. She said she wasnt able to sign -off the works as being complete. 
And, on 14 November 2019, a list of outstanding works was agreed with the contractor. Ive 
seen this list, and the outstanding works were:
Fence damage hadnt been repaired.
Windows needed silicone sealing.
Paintwork around a doorway, a piece of skirting board and a window reveal needed 
completing.
Skirting boards needed refittingArchitraves needed rubbing down and repainting.
Missing screws in hinges needed to be put in place.
Vertical ridge in plasterboard ceiling join needed attention.
Timber window reveal needed replacing.
Window sill joint needed attention.
Labels, protective tape and external debris needed removal and the property 
cleaned.
I appreciate that the work hadnt been completed when Miss B returned to the property, and 
that this wouldve been frustrating. And the fact that some of the internal plasterboard 
ceilings had to be replaced as part of the snagging works wouldve added to this frustration. 
Its also the case that Miss B didnt want the new floor coverings laid until all of the snagging 
work had been completed.
For me to say that L&G shouldve continued to pay Miss B the disturbance allowance from 
October 2019 to February 2020, Id have to say that the outstanding snagging works made 
the property uninhabitable. And I dont think thats the case. The outstanding snagging work 
didnt mean the property was structurally unsound, wasnt watertight, and it wouldnt have 
meant that it wasnt possible to cook, sleep or bathe at the property. Even if, as Miss B has 
pointed out, there was a high level of dust in the property while the work was ongoing. So, 
for these reasons, I dont think the disturbance allowance payment needs to be increased.
Putting things right
This was a very stressful time for Miss B, given the circumstances. But some of this wouldve 
been caused as a result of the initial collision, and some as a result of the way L&G handled 
the claim. In directing a remedy, Im only considering the stress caused by L&Gs handling of 
the claim.
The investigator has recommended the compensation be increased to a total of £750 to 
recognise this. I think a payment of £750 is a fair one and in line with what I would direct in 
similar circumstances. So, I wont be asking L&G to pay any more.
Its also my understanding that not all of the repairs that L&G have agreed to do, as part of 
the original damage or in rectifying previous substandard repairs, has been completed. So, 
L&G should:
Ensure all outstanding agreed repairs are to be carried out in a timely manner, and to 
an acceptable standard. They should also provide Miss B with a contact email 
address in case she has any issues while these repairs are being completed.
Pay Miss B a total of £750 to compensate her for the distress, inconvenience and 
upset caused by their handling of the claim. This amount is to include any 
compensation thats already been paid to, and accepted by, Miss B.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Bs complaint. Legal & General Insurance 
Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Andrew BurfordOmbudsman