DRN-3793088
The complaint
Mr P complains that Reassure Limited (Reassure) mis-sold his father a Childs Flexible 
Savings Plan in 1986. He asks for a return of his premiums and interest.
What happened
Mr P is represented in his complaint by a third-party representative but for ease I shall refer 
to Mr P throughout my decision. 
Mr Ps father took out a Child Flexible Savings Plan with Reassure in March 1986. The plan 
was a with-profits investment and had a maturity date of March 2042. Mr P took over 
ownership of the plan when he was 21 years old. The plan included an element of life cover 
for Mr P who was 9 years old at the time. He surrendered the plan in 2020 for a value of 
£10,656.77. He felt the advice was inappropriate and complained to Reassure.
On 4 July 2022, Reassure issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said 
there was limited information available as the advice had taken place in 1986 and this was 
before the implementation of the Financial Services Act (1986) effective from 29 April 1988. 
As such, there was no requirement to complete or retain a fact find which would have 
identified Mr Ps fathers objectives and financial situation at the point of sale.
It pointed to the fact that this plan was taken out for Mr P and all the premiums had been 
paid up until the surrender of the policy in 2020. So, it said it had no concerns about the 
affordability of the plan. The savings plan was for a specific purpose and had passed to Mr P 
upon him attaining 21 years of age and could have continued until maturity or been 
surrendered at any time. Although, there was a life assurance element to the plan the main 
purpose was that of savings and it had met the objective for which it was set up.
Mr P disagreed and brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr P. She didnt uphold his complaint. She concluded 
that from the information available, Reassure had acted fairly and reasonably and she didnt 
ask it to do anything further.
Mr P didnt agree. His main concern was the appropriateness of a plan with a life assurance 
element for a then 9-year-old child and so he asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same outcome as that of our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
As has already been said, this savings plan was sold at time when advisors werent obliged 
to record the same level of detail as is required today. However, it is clear from what is 
available that Mr Ps father wanted to save for his son. The plan was designed so that it 
would transfer to Mr P when he attained 21 years of age and could be surrendered or held to 
maturity. The plan was surrendered at a profit, but less than the guaranteed value, had Mr P 
held the plan to maturity. I can see from the information available that this was explained to 
Mr P before he surrendered the policy. 
In 1986, it was common for endowment policies to be used for savings plans for a number of 
reasons. With-Profit policies like this one were regarded as low risk and I think, looking at the 
limited information of Mr Ps circumstances at the time, it was a reasonable recommendation 
to have been made by the advisor. Endowment polices cant be sold without life cover, but it 
is clear from the level of the sum assured that the principal purpose of the plan was that of 
savings which would seem to be in line with the objective of Mr Ps father. When considering 
the monthly premium and the final surrender value in 2020, the savings plan met its 
objective to provide Mr P with a sum at a significant profit to the sums invested.
Having considered all the information, Im not persuaded that there is anything to suggest 
that the plan was inappropriate and so on balance I find no evidence that Reassure failed to 
act with reasonable care in giving the advice and providing information, and so it follows I 
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman