DRN-4235280
The complaint
Mr M says that when his new car was written-off, Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
should have ensured he could buy an equivalent new one, in line with the terms and 
conditions of his motor insurance policy.
What happened
I wont repeat all the facts here  as they are well known to the parties, Ill focus on the 
central issues. In essence, Mr Ms car was less than a year old, but Advantage said the 
requirement set out in the policy for it to provide him with a new car wasnt met, as there was 
a long waiting list for equivalent cars. It offered him the purchase price of the written-off car 
instead. Mr M said that sum was around £9,000 short of the cost of a new one - and that the 
policy didnt say a new car would only be an option if there wasnt a waiting list. 
One of our investigators concluded that Advantage should have paid Mr M the price of a new 
car in 2022, otherwise it meant he lost out and Advantage benefited from the lack of 
immediate availability of new cars. She thought it should have checked with Mr M whether 
he was happy to wait, and she said it should pay him £150 for distress and inconvenience. 
As Advantage disagreed, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a provisional 
decision, upholding Mr Ms complaint, along the following lines:
I said we think its important for insurers to make any restrictions or limitations clear 
in the policy. In this case there was nothing to say the new car option wouldnt apply 
if a replacement car wasnt immediately available
I pointed out that our view is that insurers shouldnt benefit from the market 
conditions caused by the pandemic (to the detriment of consumers) which led to new 
cars not being as readily available as previously 
I said I thought it would be fair and reasonable for Advantage to pay Mr M the 
difference between the sum it had paid him and the cost of a new car. I noted that in 
2022, the difference was around £9,000 more than Mr M was paid. But I thought hed 
shown the price had risen, so the difference was now around £15,000 more than he 
was paid. I though Advantage should pay Mr M that sum, plus £150 for distress and 
inconvenience, to cover his loss of expectation, his inconvenience, and its failure to 
discuss some issues with him, including those that arose about finance and hire 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Mr M accepted them, and 
Advantage didnt comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party objected to my provisional findings, theres no basis on which to depart from 
them. So, for the reasons set out briefly above  and in my provisional decision - my final 
decision is that I uphold this complaint. I think Advantage should put matters right for Mr M in 
the way Ive already proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr M £150 
for distress and inconvenience. Subject to evidence from a dealership garage, it should also 
pay Mr M the difference between the sum it paid him in settlement and the sum needed to 
order / buy a like-for like replacement new car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman