DRN-4023673
The complaint
Mr M complains about Lloyds General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) who declined his claim 
under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Following a storm, Mr M contacted Lloyds and made a claim. It sent a surveyor out to assess 
the damage. The surveyor inspected Mr Ms roof as well as a pergola. He took photos and 
wrote a report. In the report he said that all the pergola posts were rotted, and this weakened 
the overall structure. The rotted posts would have been done over time and not as a result of 
a one-off event such as a storm. 
The surveyor also said that the roof had tiles that were loose and out of alignment, exposing 
the silicon that had secured them. He also said that the silicon had failed which caused the 
tiles to swing freely. He didnt think that the damage was caused by a storm either. He 
advised that Mr Ms claim be declined.  The surveyor informed Mr M that the claim would be 
declined by Lloyds. 
Mr M complained to Lloyds as he believed that the surveyor had only carried out a cursory 
inspection. He said that the major cause of damage to the roof and pergola was the storm. In 
its final response, Lloyds maintained it position and the claim remained declined. It did say 
though, that there had an element of poor service and for this it offered compensation of 
£50, for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr M was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
based on the evidence that he had seen, the damage caused to the roof and pergola wasnt 
as a result of a storm. Consequently, Lloyds were fair to have declined Mr Ms claim.  
Lloyds accepted the view, Mr M did not. He said that the pergola posts were cracked as a 
result of the storm. He said that when the posts were excavated there was no rot or water 
damaged seen to them. There was no significant water damage seen on the post entry to 
the soil and concrete collars. He said that the posts had some water ingress, but this wasnt 
rot and partly due to the time in the inspection of the posts, as that occurred around four 
months after the storm.  He said that the bottom of the posts, below the concrete, was 
completely sound. He questioned the integrity of the surveyor and Lloyds. And he asked for 
a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr M, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
The main issue of this complaint is whether Lloyds fairly declined the claim regarding the 
roof and pergola, under the policy exclusions of poor workmanship and rot.  
Our approach when assessing complaints where storms are said to be the cause of the 
damage, is that we take into consideration three questions, when determining whether an 
event can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can reasonably decline a claim. 
Both parties agree that there were storm conditions around the time of the event, namely 
strong winds. So, the first answer to the first question is yes.  
Turning to the second question is the damage consistent with damage a storm typically 
causes. Lloyds said that the damaged wasnt as a result of a one-off event such as a storm. 
It said there was evidence of rot to the pergola posts. In addition, although a storm could 
cause tiles to become loose, it relied on its expert report who identified that the damage as 
consistent with poor workmanship. 
Mr M said that the damage to the pergola posts was as a result of a storm. He relied on 
photos of the post ends. He said that one of the posts had been splintered as a result of the 
storm and that there wasnt any damage that indicated water damage or rot. 
Mr M also relied on some further information that he obtained that dealt with the use of 
silicon on roofs and best practice on how tiles should be installed. He said that the damage 
to the roof was as a result of the storm and not poor workmanship.
I have carefully considered both parties comments. Im persuaded by the expert from Lloyds. 
And Ill explain why. The policy terms and conditions exclude cover where there is evidence 
of rot or poor workmanship. 
Dealing with the pergola posts first. The surveyor who assessed the damage provided 
photographs of the posts as he had inspected. 
The surveyor found the following: I inspected the timber pergola and noted rot to all corner 
posts which have weakened the structural integrity of the structure allowing the wind to 
easily move it, the customer doesnt want a replacement and only wishes to replace the 
rotten posts. In addition to this evaluation, he also provided photos in support. From those 
photos, which I have viewed, I think they show that there had been water ingress and there 
was a large amount of rot surrounding the post. 
Mr M said that when the posts were excavated, they were intact, there was no rot or water 
damage. The posts had been in concrete and where the posts had been in the concrete 
there was no rot or water damage. I asked Lloyds to comment further regarding this and it referred them to their technical 
department. Who concluded as follows: 
The left-hand image shows the junction of the timber post and a concrete pad just below 
ground level. We can see that the post is not fixed to the pad in any way. I would expect 
some metal fixing to secure the posts (in the position shown by the red highlighted circle). 
The post has been free to move away from the small pad and I would expect movement to 
occur easily in normal use. For example, someone leaning on the post might move it. 
Knocking the post with a lawnmower might move it too. The detail evident in the first image 
is not good practice. I do not agree that high wind would cause such movement. Wind would 
sail through the open pergola frame rather than being buffeted like a shed or other enclosed 
outbuilding would. The other significant feature is the condition of the timber posts. The right-
hand image shows severe wet rot with my highlighted yellow circles pointing out this defect. 
The posts are in contact with the soil. High levels of moisture normally appearing in the soil 
are free to affect the wood. This is not a good detail either since the timber should be 
finished above ground level. The timber posts are no longer stable, and my expectation is 
that the posts can no longer support the pergola roof properly. This again is not storm 
damage.
From the photos Ive seen you can see that there doesnt appear to have been any concrete 
or metal fixings. There is a concrete pad, but the post is not fixed to that either. 
Consequently, Im persuaded that the posts had rotted, as they appear to have been in 
direct contact with the soil. So, I dont think that Lloyds were unfair to decline the claim 
regarding the pergola, on the basis of rot. 
Ive next looked at the claim regarding the roof. Mr M said that the damage caused to the 
roof namely loose gable end tiles, were as a result of the storm and not because of poor 
workmanship. He provided the manufacturers information regarding the installation of the 
tiles to support his view that the workmanship was sound. 
Lloyds were asked to comment on this and again consulted with its technical department. It 
concluded that there were many flaws to the layout of the tiles and said that the technical 
information that Mr M had supplied was useful. 
I have had a look at the technical information Mr M supplied and it stated the following: 
All tile and half tiles should be twice nailed. This may mean drilling an extra hole before 
cutting to shape.
From Mr Ms information, it is clear that the tiles ought to have had two nails rather than one. 
Lloyds said that as there was only one nail, this would mean that the tile would slip out of 
alignment and wasnt stable.  
Lloyds further said that several tiles had this defect and the contractor attempted to combat 
this by using silicon. But the silicon had since shrunken and in some areas wasnt present at 
all. Lloyds concluded that the tile slippage was due to the poor workmanship and not as a 
result of the storm. 
Given all of the evidence before me, Im satisfied that the damage caused to the roof and 
pergola were not as a result of the storm. I think that the storm merely highlighted the 
existing problems. Consequently, I cant reasonably conclude that Lloyds were unfair to 
declined Mr Ms claim. Accordingly, the final question of whether the storm conditions were 
the main cause of damage must be answered as no. Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr M will be, there was 
evidence of rot and poor workmanship. And Im satisfied that Lloyds were fair and 
reasonable to rely on the policy exclusions, when it declined Mr Ms claim. Accordingly, I 
cant reasonably ask Lloyds to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman