DRN-2926343
The complaint
Miss H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money she lost when she fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
In March 2020 Miss H fell victim to a scam, while looking for a rental property. 
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows;
On returning from holiday, in March 2020, Miss H had received a notice to quit letter from 
her landlord, so she needed to find somewhere else to live. Miss H has explained that it was 
a very stressful time, with the country about to go into a lockdown and estate agents, in 
anticipation of this, starting to do things differently with regards to viewings.
Before the lockdown was introduced, Miss H was able to see a number of properties in 
person, but they didnt meet the criteria she was looking for. Once the lockdown had started, 
where potential buyers/tenants were no longer allowed to view properties in person, estate 
agents had introduced video tours.
Through an online search, Miss H came across a property she was interested in. The 
property met the criteria Miss H was looking for and was available straight away. Miss H was 
sent a video tour of the property and she liked it. Miss H has said that she knew where the 
property was, as it was close to where she already lived and was aware that they were new 
build properties.
Miss H was provided with direct contact information for the landlord. Shes explained that in 
communications with her, he seemed liked a nice man. He told her he was a doctor, who 
resided in Switzerland  he also told her that the property had won an award previously 
following guest reviews, where he had previously rented the property on a short-term basis. 
Miss H has said she checked the landlords credentials on line, and things matched up.
Miss H and the landlord exchanged emails, which discussed details of what was included 
within the rental and the cost. She was also asked to provide references to the landlord, 
which she did. Happy with the property, Miss H agreed to proceed and to secure the 
property needed to make a payment for £2,400  this was to cover one months rent and a 
security deposit.
The landlord told Miss H she would receive a booking information, through a well-known 
online travel agency that deals with, among other things, lodging reservations. It was further 
explained that, after she had moved in, her deposit would be put in a Deposit Protection 
Scheme, as required by law. Miss H was told that on receipt of payment, she would be able 
to collect the keys and after viewing the property, if she liked it, she could sign the tenancy 
agreement. The landlord also said that, if she didnt like it, she would receive a refund on the 
same day.
Believing everything to be genuine Miss H went ahead and made a payment for £2,400 to 
the account details provided. The payment went to an international bank.
A few days after making the payment Miss H became suspicious, as she hadnt heard 
anything and stopped receiving responses to her messages and calls.
Miss H complained to Monzo, she said it didnt alert her that this was a potential scam and 
so she didnt have any concerns about who she was making the payment to. Monzo looked 
into Miss Hs complaint and issued its final response on 7 April 2020 not upholding the 
complaint. It said this was because the payment Miss H had made was international. It also 
didnt agree that there were any issues with the service it had provided.
Miss H then brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Her first thoughts were that Monzo should uphold the complaint. She said this 
because she thought Monzo should have intervened before allowing the payment to be 
made. And, if it had done so and made further enquiries about the purpose of the payment, it 
would have become apparent that Miss H may have been at risk of financial harm. Our 
investigator initially thought Monzo should refund Miss H the money she lost.
Monzo disagreed with our investigators view and so she looked into things again. On 
reflection, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She maintained that she thought 
Monzo ought to have identified the payment as unusual or suspicious and it should have 
contacted Miss H before letting the money go. But our investigator didnt think this would 
have made a difference and she thought Miss H would still have gone ahead and made the 
payment. She said this because she didnt think the answers Miss H is likely to have given, 
would have caused Monzo concern that Miss H may have been at risk of financial harm.  
Our investigator thought Monzo couldve initiated the recovery of the funds sooner than it 
did, but she didnt think this would have made a difference.
Miss H didnt accept our investigators view. In summary, she thinks Monzo should have 
foreseen the fraud and had it done so she would not have lost all that she did.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss H, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully 
about Monzos actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave Miss Hs account. I also dont think it has missed an opportunity to recover the money Miss 
H has sadly lost. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Monzo should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
So In this case, I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Miss H, when she made the transfer and when she reported the fraud, or whether it 
should have done more than it did.
Miss H has accepted that she authorised the payment. Because of this, Monzo had an 
obligation to follow Miss Hs instructions. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive 
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Monzo shouldve been on the lookout 
for unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive first thought about whether I think Monzo should have intervened. Monzo has a difficult 
balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual activity or activity that 
might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But having reviewed the payment 
Miss H made, Im persuaded that it wasnt typical of how Miss H usually ran her account and 
so, I think it ought to have caused Monzo to be concerned that Miss H might have been at 
risk of financial harm.
Having looked through Miss Hs bank statements, for the six months leading up to the scam, 
the payment Miss H made to the fraudster was considerably higher than any previous 
payment she had made. Alongside this, it was an international payment to a new payee. I 
think there was enough going on that Monzo ought to have been concerned. With this I think 
it should have taken steps to conduct additional checks before processing the payment, as I 
consider the activity on the account represented a possibility that Miss H may have been at 
risk of financial harm.Where I find Monzo ought to have intervened, this in itself isnt enough for me to say that 
Monzo should refund the money Miss H lost. I also need to be persuaded that its 
intervention would have made a difference and prevented the payment from being made. I 
have to base my findings on the balance of probability  that is, what I think is more likely to 
have happened, taking into account what I know.
Had Monzo intervened at this point, Id have expected it to ask Miss H some questions about 
the payment. Miss H hadnt been coached by the fraudster about what to say if she spoke 
with her bank, which can often be the case with scams, so I think she would have spoken 
freely. I think it likely Miss H would have told Monzo that the payment was the first months 
rent/deposit for a property.
Knowing the payment was for a property and given the payment was not typical of how Miss 
H usually ran her account, I think Monzo ought reasonably to have asked further questions 
about the payment. In these particular circumstances, Ive thought about the sorts of 
additional questions Monzo couldve asked. It could have, for example, asked questions 
such as, but not limited to, how did Miss H find the property, had she viewed it, had she 
signed an agreement, why was she making an international payment for a UK property and 
what assurances had she been given about her deposit.
But Im persuaded, on balance, the answers Miss H is more likely than not to have given 
would have been sufficient to reassure Monzo that Miss H wasnt at risk of financial harm. 
From the information Ive seen and considering the circumstances of what was happening, I 
think Miss H would have reasonably been able to explain that, due to circumstances with the 
pandemic shed not been able to view the property in person, but had received a video tour, 
was aware where the property was and was familiar with the area.
As well as this, Miss H had also been in ongoing communication with the landlord directly 
and, at this point, wouldnt have been aware she was dealing with a fraudster. Miss H has 
explained that the landlord had been able to provide her with a lot of legitimate paperwork, 
guarantees and agreements and overall had seemed a nice man. Miss H had also carried 
out her own research regarding the landlord and what she found was consistent with the 
information she had been provided, in that they were a practising doctor. All of which, Im 
persuaded, would have further reassured her that the person she was dealing and the 
payment she was intending to make were legitimate.
Miss H has said she didnt know she was making an international payment. But from the 
evidence Ive seen Im persuaded its more likely than not she would have been aware of 
this. I say this because, from the information Ive seen about how an international payment is 
made, its likely Miss H would have been required to select international transfer to proceed 
with her online payment and provide details, such as an IBAN/Swift number. Im persuaded 
she would also have been able to see the currency the payment was being made in. Im also 
mindful that Miss H was under the impression that the landlord resided abroad, so I think it 
more likely than not she would have considered it plausible that they would hold a bank 
account outside of the UK.
Overall, Im persuaded its more likely than not Miss H would have been able to answer any 
questions she could potentially have been asked confidently, and with this I dont think 
Monzo could reasonably have been expected to detect that there may have been a problem. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Monzo did what it shouldve done once Miss H reported 
to it that she was concerned shed been the victim of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts 
Monzo made to recover the money. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Monzo to refund 
the money to Miss H, I need to be satisfied that Monzo should have acted sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it 
made any difference.
In this case I can see Monzo didnt raise the claim against the receiving bank on the same 
day Miss H initially reported her concerns, instead it raised the claim a few days later. But 
from what Ive seen the receiving bank only held the money fleetingly, before it was moved 
on and I cant see that it has been able to recover any of the funds. So, even though Monzo 
ought to have acted sooner, it didnt make any difference here and it sadly wasnt able to 
recover the money Miss H had paid. I also havent seen any persuasive evidence that 
suggests Monzo caused any unreasonable delays in its dealings with Miss H while it 
reviewed her claim.
Its very unfortunate Miss H has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting for her and I dont underestimate her strength of 
feeling. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Monzo should 
have done more to prevent Miss H from losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair for 
me to ask Monzo to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman