DRN-2940109
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) sent him a letter regarding
persistent debt. Hes also unhappy that Halifax didnt respond in a timely manner to his data
subject access request (DSAR) and that it referred to his concerns as feedback.
What happened
Around December 2019, Mr G received a letter from Halifax about his credit card account.
The letter explained that the bank considered him to be in persistent debt because hed paid
more in interest than the actual balance during the previous 18 months.
Mr G was unhappy to receive this letter and disagreed with Halifax  Mr G says his credit
card was on a 0% balance transfer rate for the first three months, so he didnt pay interest
during this period. Mr G claims Halifax applied the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules
on persistent debt incorrectly and shouldnt have included the initial three months as part of
the 18-month period. Mr G says receiving this letter has caused him to lose sleep, affected
his health and impacted his performance at work.
Around a month later, Mr G submitted a DSAR request and is unhappy this wasnt
responded to in a timely manner. Hes also concerned that the bank shared his data with
other lenders.
After Mr G complained, Halifax replied and said it had applied the FCAs approach to
persistent debt correctly. The bank agreed that it hadnt dealt with his DSAR within the
expected time frame and offered Mr G £200 compensation to make up for this. More
recently, Halifax increased its compensation offer to £250. Halifax said it doesnt share data
with other lenders.
Remaining unhappy, Mr G asked this service to review his complaint. Our investigator
decided that Halifax had acted fairly when it wrote to Mr G regarding his persistent debt. The
investigator concluded that Halifax had applied the FCAs approach to persistent debt
correctly and that he didnt think that Halifax had shared Mr Gs data with other lenders.
Mr G didnt agree  so the complaint has been passed to me to review.
Mr G raised some additional concerns that cannot be considered as part of this complaint.
An explanation of the reasons why has been provided separately, so I wont be commenting
on these points in my decision.
My provisional decision
I recently issued my provisional findings, explaining why I didnt plan on asking Halifax to do 
anything more in relation to this complaint  a copy of my initial findings is below:
Persistent debt letter
The FCA rules require Halifax to help customers break the cycle of persistent debt and
support them if they cant afford to pay their debts more quickly. One of the steps set out in
the rules require Halifax to contact its customers when theyve paid more in interest, charges
and fees than theyve paid off from their borrowing - over the preceding 18 months.
Halifax wrote to Mr G in December 2019, which was around 18 months after his credit card
account was opened. Looking at the calculations provided by Halifax, Mr G paid around
£400 more in interest than he did towards the borrowing during the 18-month period. Given
this, I think Halifax acted fairly and in line with the FCA rules when it wrote to Mr G about
persistent debt.
Mr G feels the first three months shouldnt be part of the 18-month period because he didnt
pay any interest during these months. And Mr Gs interpretation of the FCA rules suggests
Halifax should have calculated the interest hes paid against the borrowing hes paid off for
each and every month of the 18-month period, rather than the period as a whole.
But this isnt what the rules say  the rules require Halifax take in to account the whole
18-month period, rather than individual months. And the rules do not say that Halifax needed
to exclude the period Mr Gs account was on an interest free offer.
Ultimately, the FCA rules are intended to put more of an onus on Halifax to step in early and
help customers in persistent debt. In my opinion, having read the letter Halifax sent, the bank
seems to have applied the FCA rules fairly. So I wont be asking Halifax to do anything
differently.
DSAR
Mr G submitted a DSAR to Halifax around January 2020 and is unhappy this wasnt
responded to in a timely manner  which shouldve been no more than one month as per the
General Data Protection Regulations. I can see that Halifax wrote to Mr G a few months later
and acknowledged the delay  offering him £200 compensation because of this. A further
few months later, Halifax wrote to Mr G to update him on why his DSAR hadnt been
responded to and increased its compensation offer to £250.
Halifax recently told this service that Mr Gs DSAR was eventually responded to in August
2020. Halifax seems to have acknowledged that there had been a delay in dealing with
Mr Gs DSAR. But I do note that the delay wouldve added to the distress and inconvenience
Mr G was feeling as part of his overall complaint.
In my opinion, a compensation award is the fairest way for Halifax to make up for this delay.
I think the £250 offer thats already been put forward is fair and within the region of what I
wouldve asked Halifax to pay anyway - had it not already made this offer. Given the DSAR
has been responded to and because the compensation offered is, in my opinion fair  I wont
be asking Halifax to do anything further in relation to this.
Reference to feedback
Mr G expresses concern that his comments about how Halifax calculates the 18-month
period was taken forward as feedback rather than a formal complaint. Ive seen the letter
Mr G seems to be making reference to. Halifax does explicitly say that Mr Gs comments
would be passed on as feedback. But I cant see that his complaint wasnt formally looked in
to by Halifax.
The letter in question makes reference to Mr Gs complaint and seems to have been issued
by a complaint manager at Halifax. Halifax has also detailed the option for Mr G to refer his
complaint to this service should he remain unhappy. It seems to me that the reference tofeedback was intended to ensure the right team were made aware of Mr Gs comments. So,
on balance, Im satisfied that Halifax looked into Mr Gs concerns as a formal complaint.
Data sharing
Mr G claims Halifax shares his information with other lenders and isnt happy with this. Hes
made reference to correspondence from another lender that bears similar wording to
communication hes had with Halifax. Mr G thinks this indicates that Halifax has shared data
with this other lender.
Halifax says it hasnt shared Mr Gs information with other lenders. It confirms that other
businesses within its banking group (Bank of Scotland is part of Lloyds Banking Group) may
communicate in a similar way and that Halifax can review information on other products held
by Mr G across the banking group. Ive looked at the banks privacy notice on its website
which sets out that information can be shared across the banking group.
I havent seen anything that makes me think Halifax has used Mr Gs information unfairly or
improperly. So I wont be asking the bank to do anything differently because of this.
In summary, in my opinion Halifax acted fairly and in line with the FCA rules when it wrote to
Mr G about persistent debt. I acknowledge that Mr Gs account was on an interest free offer
at the start, but Im satisfied that the total interest he paid across the 18-month period gave
cause to Halifax to write to Mr G about his debt. Mr Gs DSAR has been responded to by
Halifax and, although the delays he experienced werent appropriate  the bank, in my view
has already offered fair compensation to put things right. Ive also seen no information that
makes me think that Halifax has not acted in accordance with its own privacy policy when
handling Mr Gs information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax responded to my provisional decision, accepting what Id decided. Mr G didnt agree 
and said the following:
that I didnt consider the FCAs emails to him regarding the persistent debt rules and 
that I should have contacted the FCA to clarify its approach 
that I overlooked an additional £50 compensation award that was offered
he reiterated that his complaint shouldnt have been treated as feedback by Halifax
that I failed to consider other important pieces of information
Id like to reassure Mr G that all the information and documents hes referred to have been 
considered when making my decision. It wouldnt be practical for me to refer to each 
individual piece of correspondence, but Ive considered all the available evidence and 
arguments. Ive also reviewed the relevant FCA rules when making my decision and I dont 
see a need here to seek further clarification from the regulator. 
From what Ive seen, as set out in my provisional findings, Halifax has offered Mr G £250 
compensation. Ive seen the letter Mr G referred to that mentions a separate £50 
compensation offer  but this isnt an offer made by Halifax. 
As nothing new has been submitted, I have no further comments to make about this 
complaint. So my decision remains the same. My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not asking Bank of Scotland plc to do anything differently in 
relation to this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mr G the £250 compensation it 
has offered him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman