The complaint
Miss S and Mr W complain Royal Bank of Scotland Plc closed their joint account unfairly. 
Miss S says she never received notification the account would close, and she didnt have 
enough time to make alternative banking arrangements. They want compensation for the 
trouble they were caused.
Background
Miss S and Mr W held a joint current account with RBS. RBS closed the account on 
14 November 2019.
Miss S says she didnt receive notification the account would close until shortly before it did. 
She says this left her with insufficient time to make alternative arrangements. She says this 
had a particular impact because she received benefit payments into the account which she 
wasnt able to receive.
RBS says valid notice was sent to Miss S and Mr W to the address it holds for them. It sent 
two letters, one to Mr W and a separate one to Miss S. Each letter was dated 29 July 2019. 
Miss Ss letter said the account would close due to a breakdown in the relationship RBS had 
with Mr W. It said she had until 27 September 2019 to make alternative arrangements. She 
denies receiving this letter.
Mr Ws letter also said the account would close and gave the same date by which alternative 
arrangements needed to be made.
Miss S and Mr Ws account didnt close until 14 November 2019. RBS say this was because 
the account was overdrawn for a period, which prolonged the time it remained open. The 
account had a positive balance in November and there were no concerns the account was 
going to go overdrawn, which is why it closed at that time.
RBS sent Miss S a letter that November confirming the account would close, and it issued a 
cheque representing the balance on the account at the point of closure.
An investigator at our service considered Miss S and Mr Ws complaint and decided not to 
uphold it. They found:
- RBS was entitled to close the account if it wanted, and it could do so by giving the
correct notice under the accounts terms and conditions.
- Miss S denies receiving the notice to close letter, but RBS were under a duty to send
the notice to the address it had for them. It couldnt ensure that post was delivered or
read.
DRN-2167279- RBS addressed both its letters to Miss S and Mr W correctly, and its records indicate 
the letters were dispatched. So, it had done what was required of it to close the 
account.
- RBS didnt need to pay Miss S or Mr W any compensation for the trouble or 
inconvenience they experienced as a result of the account closing.
Miss S and Mr W didnt agree with the outcome the investigator reached. Miss S says notice 
being sent by standard mail wasnt good enough, and the reason RBS gave for the closure 
was the first she had heard about it. She thinks RBS is backtracking and trying to make up 
for an administrative error. The investigator responded and said they still found the letters 
were sent, and that standard post wasnt an unreasonable way to send them.
Miss S and Mr W have asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for broadly similar reasons to those given by the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
RBS is entitled to close the accounts of its customers. It has the same discretion as that 
afforded to a consumer who may wish to open an account elsewhere and close their 
account. The exercise of RBSs discretion in this regard isnt something I would generally 
interfere with, unless I found the decision to close an account was based on illegitimate 
reasons. 
RBS must still abide by the terms of the account which Miss S and Mr W agreed to when 
they became its customers. The terms of the account require at least 60 days notice to be 
given before an account is closed.
RBS say it sent both Miss S and Mr W letters which informed them of the date the accounts 
would close. Ive seen copies of both letters and they are correctly addressed and give the 
correct notice period. RBS system records reflect the letters being sent at that time, which I 
find is persuasive evidence.
Miss S says she never received her letter, and this is possible. But when facts are not 
certain I need to make findings based on what I think is most likely to have happened. Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest postal problems around the time the letters were sent, and on 
the whole most post is delivered correctly. I must also account for the fact that post is 
sometimes mis-laid or not always read by customers. So, on balance I think its more likely 
the letters were received.
The reason RBS gave for closing the account was because its relationship with Mr W had 
broken down. Miss S thinks this is RBS backtracking to make up for an administrative error. 
But I disagree, as the reason was written in the copy of the letter dated 29 July 2019. RBS 
didnt have to give any reason for its decision, so in light of the reason it did give, I find it was 
sufficient. Neither have I seen evidence to show that its decision was anything other than a 
legitimate exercise of its discretion.I appreciate Miss S and Mr W will not be happy with the outcome of my decision. Miss S 
says she has been a customer for some time and suffered loss as a result of RBSs 
decision. I appreciate Miss S may have been inconvenienced by the closure of the account, 
but I wont be directing RBS to compensate her or Mr W because I find it didnt do anything 
wrong.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
Liam King
Ombudsman