DRN-3062195
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) debited her account with an amount she 
didnt withdraw. She thinks Halifax has made a mistake and would like the cash refunded. 
She also is unhappy that Halifax didnt deal with her complaint promptly. 
What happened
Mrs F has an account with Halifax part of the Bank of Scotland group.
On 27 February 2020 Mrs F went to a branch of Halifax and made an over the counter 
withdrawal. Mrs F has said she cant remember how much she withdrew but when she 
checked her passbook a month later, she realised that £900 had been withdrawn on that 
occasion. Mrs F doesnt think she would have made such a large withdrawal.
Mrs F complained to Halifax.
Halifax investigated but didnt uphold her complaint they said Mrs F had withdrawn the 
amount, there had been no bank error. The cashier had used the teller cash recycler (TCR) 
machine to dispense the cash in the denominations Mrs F requested. Mrs F had signed for 
the cash.
Mrs F was unhappy with their response, so she complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said he didnt think Halifax had done 
anything wrong when they declined to refund Mrs F. He thought Halifax could have dealt 
with the complaint better and kept Mrs F informed of the progress of her complaint. He 
thought that £75 was fair compensation for this aspect of the complaint.
Mrs F was unhappy with the view she thought she should be refunded the £900.
Halifax also disagreed with the view they thought £75 wasnt fair compensation in view of the 
challenges they faced during the pandemic with contacting people.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive reached a different decision to our investigator, and Ill explain my reasons below.
From what Ive seen I think its reasonable for Halifax to decline to refund Mrs F, I say this 
because:
There was a withdrawal of £900 on Mrs Fs account that day. I have seen a copy of 
the withdrawal slip which has been signed by her.
Mrs F says that although she signed for the money, she didnt receive the money.
Mrs F isnt clear how much she withdrew that day, but she has said she wouldnt take 
out such a large amount. I note that she previously took out £700 to purchase a 
mattress but lost the money at some point after she left the branch. I appreciate 
Mrs F says this made it less likely she would want to take out such large sums, but I 
think its just as likely Mrs F withdrew £900. I say this because the technical evidence 
suggests the amount was dispensed by the machine and handed over to Mrs F.
Mrs F has suggested that someone must have had the money, or it was left in the till.
The branch Mrs F went to uses a TCR machine. The machine is shown to have 
dispensed £900. The bank has said the TCR machine is balanced once a quarter. 
This was carried out on 28 February 2020, the day after Mrs F went into branch to 
get her money. The bank has provided me with evidence the TCR machine was £20 
short when it was checked on 28 February 2020. 
The bank has said the cash is emptied out of the TCR and counted by 2 people. 
They have said their process is that one of those people must be independent of the 
till holder, and a bank manager. They have said that on this occasion both people 
doing the check were independent, and both were bank managers.
Mrs F has said that the cashier counted the money in front of her and although she 
hasnt been able to confirm the amount she says she requested, Im satisfied that the 
cashier didnt make a mistake or deliberately with hold a portion of the £900. I have 
seen no evidence of fraudulent activity taking place on Mrs Fs account.
 
Mrs F thinks someone else must have had the money. But looking at the evidence I 
think its more likely than not Mrs F received the £900. I appreciate that she thinks 
someone has taken her money, but I have seen no evidence of that.
So, based on the information received from the bank I cant say that money was left 
over in the till and therefore Mrs F must have received the £900 despite what she is 
saying.
In summary I am satisfied from the evidence Ive seen £900 was more likely than not taken 
out by Mrs F that day and I cant see that Halifax have done anything wrong in declining to 
refund her.
I have gone on to consider compensation suggested by the investigator for Halifax failure to 
communicate with Mrs F about her service complaint.
Mrs F has told us that she contacted Halifax in April to complain and was told that the branch 
would get in touch with her. I have listened to the calls she made to Halifax. But there was 
no contact between April and the 5 May 2020. This must have been distressing for Mrs F. 
The Investigator has suggested £75 for this and I note that Halifax were unhappy with this 
amount as they felt that due to the pandemic, they were unable to get in touch with 
customers easily.
As a service we arent able to look at every complaint that is brought to us or every aspect of 
a complaint that is brought to us. There are only certain complaints our service has the 
power to consider. Our jurisdiction is described in the dispute resolution rules (DISP), which 
form part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. 
For our service to be able to consider this aspect of Mrs Fs complaint, the activity that she is 
complaining about must fall under our jurisdiction. If not, we simply are unable to consider whether we think Halifax have done anything wrong when they didnt deal with her complaint 
promptly.
DISP 2.3 describes the activities our service can consider, which include regulated activities 
that fall under the Regulated Activities Order (RAO), as well as other specified unregulated 
activities.
In general, this means we are able to consider complaints about the provision of financial 
services. However, this aspect of Mrs Fs complaint is about complaint handling matters and 
not about the original financial service provided.
I therefore think that we dont have the jurisdiction to look at this aspect of the complaint.  
I understand Mrs F will be very disappointed with what I have to say, but I find that we have 
no authority to consider how Halifax have dealt with her complaint. It is not an activity listed 
in the RAO or otherwise a specified activity I can consider.
I know that Mrs F will be disappointed with my decision, I think Halifax have done nothing 
wrong and I wont be asking them to do anything else. 
responses to my provisional decision
Halifax have not provided any further comments to my provisional decision.
Mrs F reiterated that she hadnt received the £900.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr F has reiterated her position. She hasnt provided any new information 
following the provisional decision and Halifax have provided no comments.  I have 
nevertheless re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have seen nothing to change my 
mind and so my provisional findings stand.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision my final decision is that I do not uphold 
the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman