DRN-3150023
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about the transfer of the value of his preserved benefits in his employers 
defined benefits occupational pension scheme (OPS) following advice in 1996 from Godwins 
Ltd, which later became part of Aon Consulting Limited (Aon). Aon is now responsible for the 
advice Godwins Ltd gave. 
What happened
Mr F had been a member of his employers OPS. Following the employer being taken over 
by another company, the OPS became closed to future accruals and Mr F became a 
deferred member of the OPS in September 1995. 
The employer wrote to members in December 1995 setting out their options:
A deferred pension under the OPS, payable from normal retirement date which was 
the members 65th birthday. But, if the member elected to take benefits at or after 
their 60th birthday, thered be no reduction;
Transfer to a pension scheme of a new employer;
Transfer to a personal pension;
Transfer to a buy-out policy with an insurance company.
This letter also confirmed that, if the member elected to transfer prior to 7 March 1996, 
theyd receive an enhanced transfer value.
In early 1996 Mr Fs employer arranged for Godwins Ltd to provide advice to members 
regarding their options. Unfortunately, theres no fact find or suitability letter or other record 
of the advice. 
Ive seen a personalised key features document (illustration) prepared by Scottish Mutual on 
the basis Mr F transferred to a section 32 buy out plan. Theres also a key features leaflet. 
Estimates as to what Mr Fs fund might be at his 65th birthday were set out - £83,900, 
£193,000 and £434,000 based on growth of 6% pa, 9% pa and 12% pa respectively.  Based 
on a fund value of £83,900, the plan was projected to provide an income of £4,840 pa at age 
65.  But the illustration also said that Mr F had a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) which, 
revalued to normal retirement age (Mr Fs 65th birthday) was £7,694.44 each year, of which 
£3,776.76 would increase in payment by 3% each year. 
On 29 March 1996 Mr F completed an application form to transfer the value of his deferred 
benefits to a section 32 buy out plan with Scottish Mutual. 
On 16 April 1996 Scottish Mutual acknowledged the application and receipt of £24,625.28 
from the OPS. Scottish Mutual confirmed that 58.8% of the fund had been invested in the 
with profits fund and the rest in a cash fund. But the money in the cash fund was to be 
switched to the Managed 95% Guarantee Fund on 25 April 1996 (the next dealing date). 
Aon has said the advice was reviewed in 1997. And that where, as in Mr Fs case, no loss 
was deemed to have occurred, Godwins Ltd had sent a letter to each individual confirming 
that their case had been reviewed. But Aon was unable to produce any correspondence sent 
to Mr F about any review. And Mr F has said he had no further contact from Aon after the 
advice was given in 1996.  
In 2000 Aon were replaced as the servicing agent on the Scottish Mutual buy out plan. I 
understand that in October 2010 Mr F switched the value of the section 32 buy out plan into 
a personal pension with Standard Life. A transfer value of £48,396.91 was paid. And, in April 
2013, Mr F switched again to a Group Personal Pension (GPP) with Scottish Life (now Royal 
London). The transfer value was £85,835.36.         
Mr F complained to Aon through his then representative in July 2019 about Godwin Ltds 
advice to transfer.  Amongst other things his representative said Mr Fs pension benefits 
were far lower than they wouldve been if he hadnt transferred away from his high-quality 
pension scheme. That was based partly on Mr Fs conversations with former colleagues 
who hadnt transferred. Mr F was claiming compensation for the difference between the 
current value of his pension benefits and what theyd have been worth if he hadnt 
transferred away. 
Aon did investigate Mr Fs complaint and concluded that the advice had been compliant. But
Aon also said the complaint had been made too late and we couldnt consider it. 
When the complaint was referred to us, our investigator didnt agree it had been made too 
late. Aon didnt accept that and so the complaint was referred to me to decide if it had been 
made in time. I issued a jurisdiction decision on 17 June 2021. For the reasons I set out I 
thought the complaint had been made within the applicable time limits and so we could 
consider it. 
Our investigator issued her view on the merits on the complaint on 22 October 2021. She 
acknowledged that the information was limited. But, from what shed seen, she didnt think 
the advice to transfer had been suitable. 
Amongst other things, she said that Mr F had said the adviser had told him the buy out plan 
would provide better retirement benefits and would mean that he could retire early. At the 
time of the advice, Mr F was 35, employed and married. His attitude to risk was 
conservative. Hed been a member of the OPS for fifteen years. He had no other pension or 
other savings and no significant assets or liabilities, other than a car loan. 
Aon had said that the required rate of growth just to match the benefits given up in the OPS 
was 9.09% to age 65 and 9.17% to age 60. The investigator didnt think, for a low risk 
investor such as Mr F, that was achievable. Mr F was likely to be worse off as a result of 
transferring. He didnt have the capacity to absorb any losses arising from the transfer. Mr F 
had been given illustrations for the buy out plan but it wasnt clear if all his options had been 
discussed, including that he could take his benefits from the OPS at age 60 without 
reduction. 
Mr Fs representative said that Mr F agreed with and accepted the investigators view. It said 
wed considered other complaints similar to Mr Fs and upheld them. It also asked for Mr Fs 
complaint to be expedited as he was awaiting surgery for a medical condition. 
Aon didnt make any further comments but asked that an ombudsman consider the 
complaint.   
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also thought again about jurisdiction  were required to keep jurisdiction under review 
throughout our consideration of a complaint, up to and until we issue a final decision. But I 
dont think theres anything new and which might lead me to believe that what I said in my 
jurisdiction decision was wrong. 
And, having considered the merits of the complaint, I agree with the investigator that the 
advice given to Mr F was unsuitable. 
In reaching that conclusion Ive considered carefully all AON has said, including the points it 
made in its final response letter dated 26 November 2019. I acknowledge that theres limited 
information and evidence as to exactly what happened in 1996. So Ive had to make my 
decision based on what Ive seen and what Mr F and Aon have said about what happened. I 
note what Mr Fs representative has said about other, similar, complaints. But Ive based my 
decision here on what happened in this particular case and what we know about Mr Fs 
circumstances at the time the advice was given, the benefits given up in the OPS and what 
the section 32 plan offered. 
The investigator referred to COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 19.1.6G which says 
that advisers should start by assuming a transfer out of a defined benefits OPS will not be 
suitable. Although thats the position now, and has been for some time, I dont think the 
presumption of unsuitability was introduced until December 2001, in what was then the 
Conduct of Business (COB) rules and which postdate Mr Fs complaint. 
But it is still up to Aon to demonstrate that the advice Mr F received to transfer was suitable. 
In some cases, a consumer may have specific reasons to transfer and getting a better 
pension wont be the main consideration. But, in most cases, the aim will be to improve 
retirement benefits. I think that was Mr Fs position.  
As a deferred member of the OPS, Mr F was entitled to virtually guaranteed benefits from 
age 60. The illustration produced is on the basis that benefits from the section 32 plan would 
be payable from age 65. It isnt clear how the projected benefits compared with those 
available to Mr F from the OPS when he reached age 60. Mr F has said that he was told 
hed be able to retire early. But its unclear exactly what, if anything was said about that, and 
why Mr Fs prospects of retiring early were better if he transferred when, as Ive said, he was 
entitled to unreduced benefits from the OPS at age 60.
Aon has apparently noted Mr F as having a conservative attitude to risk. Theres no 
evidence that Mr Fs attitude to risk was discussed at the time but I think a low risk approach 
is consistent with his circumstances. And the funds selected for the section 32 buy out bond 
were consistent with that. 
Mr F was relatively young at the time of the transfer (he was 35) and he still had time to 
make further pension provision. But hed accrued some fifteen years service in the 
employers scheme. That represented his entire pension provision at the time. Regardless of 
what other retirement savings Mr F was able to make, the benefits hed accrued in the OPS 
would form a significant proportion of his pension benefits when he came to retire. I cant 
see, given that its accepted that he had a low risk approach, that hed have wanted to take 
any significant degree of risk with the benefits hed accrued. And I dont see that he had any 
real capacity for loss when it came to these benefits. 
I acknowledge that the section 32 plan meant that the GMP element of the benefits Mr F had 
accrued was protected and guaranteed but, had Mr F remained in the employers scheme, all of his benefits and not just the GMP element were virtually guaranteed. Transferring 
meant that Mr F took on investment risk which I dont think he wanted or was in a position to 
accept. 
And Im not convinced that Mr F was given enough information to make a fully informed 
decision to transfer his benefits. Hes said that the advice meeting lasted about fifteen 
minutes. I dont see that wouldve been sufficient time to go through all Mr Fs options. Wed 
expect Mr F to have been given sufficient, clear information to make an informed investment 
decision, based on a firm understanding of the risks involved and a knowledge of what 
protection, rights, expectations and options he was giving up. I dont think Aon has 
demonstrated that was the case. And, as Ive noted above, the information about what the 
section 32 plan would provide was based on Mr F taking benefits at age 65. Given that the 
OPS provided unreduced benefits from age 60, the illustrations shouldve been prepared to 
that age. 
I dont think the advice to transfer out of the OPS was suitable for Mr F. 
Ive set out below what Aon needs to do to put things right. I dont know how much redress 
will be in Mr Fs case. But, in case it exceeds the maximum amount I can award, Ive 
included a recommendation that Aon pays the balance. Where the complaint is about an act 
or omission before 1 April 2012 (as here) and the complaint was referred to us on or after 1 
April 2019 (here the complaint was referred to us in January 2020) the maximum award I 
can make is £160,000.   
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr F, as far as possible, in the position hed be in now if hed had suitable 
advice. I think suitable advice wouldve been that Mr F should remain in the OPS. 
Aon Consulting Ltd should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
(defined benefit) pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the 
date of my final decision. Aon Consulting Ltd may wish to contact the Department for Work 
and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Fs contribution history to the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme
(SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Fs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Fs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr F as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr F within 90 days of the date 
Aon Consulting Ltd receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that 
it takes Aon Consulting Ltd to pay Mr F. 
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Aon Consulting Ltd to pay Mr F the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Aon 
Consulting Ltd to pay Mr F any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Aon Consulting 
Ltd to pay Mr F any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Aon Consulting Ltd pays Mr F the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated 
as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr F. 
If Mr F accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Aon Consulting Ltd. My 
recommendation is not binding on Aon Consulting Ltd. Further, its unlikely that Mr F can 
accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr F may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Aon Consulting Ltd must redress Mr F as Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman