DRN-4339809
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car acquired with finance from Zopa Bank Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr G was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Zopa.
Around a month after getting the car Mr G noticed an oil leak. Soon afterwards a waring light 
on the dashboard illuminated showing a gearbox and engine fault. Mr G contacted the 
supplying dealer who referred him to a mechanic. The mechanic looked at the car but found 
no fault. Following this the car broke down. Mr G complained to Zopa.
Zopa arranged for an independent inspection of the car. The report concluded that the car 
had a fault which was present at the point of supply.
Zopa accepted Mr Gs request to reject the car and advised him that there may be charges 
for fair usage and damage.
The car was returned to the supplying dealer in January 2023. Zopa retained all Mr Gs 
monthly payments for fair usage of the car and raised an invoice for further charges of 
£962.27.
Mr G disputed the fair usage charges and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she didnt think the charges for fair usage 
were fair and said Zopa should only charge an additional £229.48 (in addition to the three 
monthly payments it had retained).
Zopa didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were clearly some significant issues with the car supplied to Mr G under the 
agreement. Zopa agreed that the car could be rejected and told Mr G that there could be 
charges for fair usage.
Mr G covered 5226 miles whilst the car was in his possession. Zopa said it was entitled to 
apply fair usage charges of 25p for each mile, which gave a usage charge of £1306.50. Mr G 
had made payments under the agreement totalling £344.23 so Zopa asked him to pay a 
further £962.27.
Theres no reference to the fair usage charge in the hire purchase agreement.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that a finance company is entitled to make a deduction 
for fair use. It doesnt set out what rate or method should be used.
Our approach is to look at all the circumstances and decide whats fair and reasonable.
In this case, Mr G had been driving the car for around 5 months before it was rejected. He 
completed 5226 miles during this time, which is what this service would consider to be 
average mileage.
Whilst a mileage charge of 25p per mile doesnt appear excessive of itself, I dont think that a 
charge of 25p per mile is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive 
taken into account the length of time Mr G has had the car for, the mileage he covered, and 
the payments retained by Zopa. Taking everything into account, I think the fairest way to 
apply the charge for fair usage is for Zopa to retain 3 months payments and charge Mr G for 
a further 2 months worth of payments (£229.48) so that Zopa receive an amount equivalent 
to 5 months payments for fair usage. This equates to one monthly payment for every 1000 
miles covered. I think this fairly reflects the fact that Mr G had 5 months use of the car.
Putting things right
To put things right Zopa Bank Limited must:
Cancel the charges of £962.27 and re-invoice Mr G fair use charges of £229.48
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Zopa Bank Limited must take the steps Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman