DRN-2921421
complaint
Mr D and Ms E say that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
(MPPI) policy in 2001.  
The MPPI was originally sold by Abbey National  but Santander has responsibility for the 
sale, and for this complaint. So, I will refer to Santander in my decision.
background
Mr D and Ms E took out an MPPPI policy when they applied for a mortgage in 2001. The 
policy covered Mr D.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. Mr D and Ms 
E disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr D and Ms Es case. 
I should start by saying that Mr D and Ms E have provided a lot of information in relation to 
their complaint  and have taken a lot of time to respond fully to the view that the adjudicator 
came to, and clearly feel very strongly that they were mis-sold. 
Ive read and taken all the points they have raised in to account in my review of their 
complaint  but for clarity have condensed my decision to focus on the main factors affecting 
the outcome of their complaint. 
One of the first things I need to ask myself when looking at an MPPI complaint is if the policy 
was presented as an optional product  and that a consumer consented to purchase it. 
When the adjudicator looked at the complaint, they thought that it was most likely that the 
MPPI was presented as an optional product  and having reviewed the complaint 
independently, I agree. Ill explain why.
Mr D and Ms E made their application for a mortgage and MPPI policy in 2001  nearly 20 
years ago. There has also been a takeover of business involved. So, Santander doesnt hold 
all the paperwork or records of what took place at the time. But this isnt unusual for a sale 
that took place so long ago  and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely.
Santander has been able to provide a copy of the mortgage application and I can see on this 
that there is no mention of the MPPI policy on this  although it may have been discussed at 
this time. So, a separate application for MPPI wouldve need to have been made. And on 
balance, I think that this wouldve shown that the MPPI was a separate product from the 
mortgage itself  and Mr D and Ms E wouldve needed to complete this and consent to take 
out the policy in order for it to have been put in place.
Mr D has referred to some policy wording which he says shows that the MPPI policy 
wouldnt have been approved without a successful mortgage application  and this shows 
that they are contractually linked. Showing that they didnt have a choice. But he has mis-
interpreted the wording here.
What this says is that in order to have an MPPI policy, you must have a mortgage. Not that 
in order to get a mortgage, you must have MPPI.  So, I disagree with the point he has made 
here.
Santander recommended the MPPI policy to Mr D and Ms E  which means that it needed to 
take extra steps to ensure that the policy was right for them  taking in to account their 
individual circumstances at the time  and make sure that it was suitable for their needs. And 
given what theyve told me, I think that it was as although Mr D did have other benefits, the 
MPPI couldve paid out on top of and for longer than what he currently had in place, leaving 
these for other expenses.  
Due to the lack of paperwork available, Im not able to see how clearly Santander presented 
the cost of the policy to Mr D and Ms E  and perhaps this couldve been done better. But 
considering the cost of the policy, the level of cover it provided  and the provisions Mr D 
and Ms E already had in place, I still think that they wouldve taken the policy had the costs 
been made clear to them.  
Its also possible that Santander didnt point out the main things that the policy didnt cover  
but Mr D as the person covered by the policy doesnt appear to have been affected by any of 
those things.  
 
other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy. Because 
of this, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) introduced some new rules and guidance for 
businesses to follow when looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes 
need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements (in this case Mr D and Ms Es mortgage) taken out 
on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then which were still running on 6 
April 2008. But as Mr D and Ms Es mortgage was taken out in 2001 and ended in 2007 
these rules dont apply to their complaint  and so Santander doesnt need to refund any of 
the commission paid on their MPPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms E to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman