DRN-2853723
The complaint
This complaint is about mortgages Mrs F arranged with Lloyds Bank PLC. Mrs F says the 
mortgages were unsuitable and therefore mis-sold.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the current position and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
Mrs F had had a joint mortgage previously, but in took a mortgage on her own in 2005. She 
took further mortgages in 2008 and 2013 respectively, to consolidate existing consumer 
debt. On all three transactions, she proceeded on a no advice basis; that is, without 
receiving a recommendation to do so from either Lloyds or a third-party financial advisor.
 
She now complains that taking out mortgages to consolidate debt wasnt suitable for her 
needs and circumstances. Also, shes unhappy that the current mortgage will run until shes 
63, when shes aiming to retire at 55. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded Lloyds had done anything wrong. Mrs F has asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint against Lloyds is that the mortgages should not have been provided, because 
they werent suitable for Mrs Fs needs and circumstances. However, these were 
non-advised sales; that is, sales where it was for the borrower (so, Mrs F) to make her own 
judgement on the suitability of the mortgages for her. 
I cant have regard for todays regulatory requirements here. I can only take into account the 
standards the FCA set in 2005,2008 and 2013 respectively. At those times, there was 
nothing remotely unusual about people taking mortgages without financial advice.
It was up to Mrs F to decide if consolidating existing debt was a good idea; similarly, it was 
for Mrs F to decide at what age she wanted to be mortgage-free. For completeness, the 
application forms for the 2005 and 2008 sales recorded Mrs Fs intended retirement age is 
65.
Lloyds duty was limited to lending responsibly; chiefly, that means not granting loans that 
were unaffordable. Nothing in what Ive seen from either sides testimony gives me any 
reason to think Lloyds lent money that Mrs F would have difficulty paying back, based on the 
information she provided at the times of applying.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman