DRN-1666399
 
The complaint
Mrs I complains about the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled a claim she made 
on her home emergency insurance policy. She says that because of IPAs failure to properly 
deal with the problem, shes suffered damage to her home.
Mrs Is represented by Mr I.
What happened
Mrs I called up IPA to report that her toilet was leaking. A few hours later, IPA sent out a 
plumber to investigate the cause of the leak. The plumber isolated the electricity supply to 
the macerator. But he told Mrs I that the toilet needed a new pump  which wasnt covered 
by the policy.
A few hours later, Mrs I called IPA again to let it know the toilet was still leaking. Another 
plumber was sent out. He found the leak was down to high water levels which were leaking 
onto the ceiling. IPAs records show he removed the water and told Mrs I not to flush the 
toilet.
At around 2am the following morning, Mrs I had to call IPA again. The leak had become 
worse and the ceilings were bowing. IPA wasnt able to send anyone out at this point. So 
Mrs I organised an emergency plumber who was able to get the repairs done and the leak 
stopped.
Mr I complained (on Mrs Is behalf) about the way IPAs plumbers had handled the claim. He 
felt their actions had made the situation worse and led to unnecessary damage. He also said 
the first plumber had flushed the toilet, which had led to the second occurrence of the leak. 
He thought IPA should pay for the internal repairs and pay Mrs I substantial compensation.
IPA reimbursed Mrs I for the cost of the emergency plumber. It appointed an adjuster to go 
out and assess the cause of the internal damage. The adjusters report said the damage had 
been minor but made worse by the poor workmanship of IPAs plumbers. IPA didnt think it 
was responsible for the internal damage though. It felt Mrs I and her family mustve 
continued to flush the toilet despite being told not to do so. 
Mr I remained unhappy with IPAs handling of the claim and asked us to look into Mrs Is 
complaint.
Our investigator initially thought IPA should accept liability for 50% of the costs of the repairs 
set out in the adjusters schedule of works and pay Mrs I £150 compensation for her distress 
and inconvenience. She felt it was most likely that given Mrs Is property had more than one 
toilet, it was unlikely Mrs Is family had continued to use the leaking one. She was also 
persuaded by the adjusters report which suggested that IPAs plumbers had missed two 
chances to diagnose and put right the cause of the leak. So she felt it was fair for IPA to 
contribute towards the resulting internal damage.IPA indicated it was likely to agree to the investigators recommendation. Mr I disagreed. He 
thought IPA should pay 95% of the cost of the repairs and £1000 compensation. He 
provided quotes from independent contractors for the cost of the repairs. Both of these 
figures were higher than the loss adjusters quote. He also provided a timeline of events.
The investigator reassessed Mrs Is complaint. She recommended that given the leak had 
been going on for around 12 hours after IPAs first plumber attended, it was fair to say that 
the damage had become considerably worse during this time. So she thought it would be 
fairer for IPA to pay 80% towards the cost of the repairs. Shed compared the quotes Mr I 
had sent in with the adjusters and felt it would be fair for IPA to rely on the middle quote. 
And she felt total compensation of £400 would be more reasonable to recognise Mrs Is 
distress and inconvenience  given the calls shed had to make and the worry shed felt 
about her ceiling possibly collapsing.
IPA disagreed. It maintained a 50% contribution towards the cost of the repairs was 
reasonable. And it wasnt prepared to consider quotes from other contractors. Mr I also 
disagreed. He felt a fair settlement would be taking an average of both of his contractors 
quotes. And he still felt that IPA should pay for 95% of the costs of the repair and £1000 
compensation.
As neither party agreed with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that a fair outcome would be for IPA to pay 80% of the repair costs and £400 
compensation. Ill explain why.
First, while Ive summarised the complaint and Mr Is detailed submissions, Id like to 
reassure both parties that Ive read and listened to everything theyve sent me. Ive focused 
though on what I think are the key issues, rather than addressing each and every point.
What is IPAs liability for the cost of the internal repairs?
Originally, IPA didnt accept liability for the cost of the internal repairs. It felt it was more likely 
that the continued leak was down to Mrs I continuing to use the toilet despite the plumbers 
advising her not to. The investigator explained why she felt this was unlikely, given the 
circumstances. It seems, given IPA afterwards agreed that a 50% contribution to the cost of 
the repairs was a fair settlement, it does accept that it bears at least some liability for the 
internal damage. Based on what Ive seen, I agree that IPAs plumbers actions exacerbated 
the damage. And so I agree it bears some responsibility for the cost of the internal repairs.
But IPA does dispute how much of the cost of the internal repairs it should pay. So Ive 
carefully considered the available evidence to decide what I think its liability should be.
According to Mr Is timeline, the leak started at around 12, when IPA were called out. IPA 
says its service level agreements give a four-hour response time for a contractor to go out, 
although this isnt clear from the policy. So it seems likely that some internal damage is likely 
to have been sustained during this time while the water was leaking from the toilet into the 
floor. I appreciate Mrs I and her family were trying to use towels to soak up the water.
The first plumber appears to have arrived at around 5pm and the second around 9pm. In 
both cases, they believed theyd successfully stopped the leak, although the type of toilet 
itself wasnt covered by the policy. The first plumber seems to have taken out a fuse and the second seems to have removed water from the toilet.
Ive looked closely at IPAs notes. These include a section called thoughts. In this section, 
although Im not clear who wrote the note, a reviewer concluded:
The engineer should have removed the excess water on the first attendance, the leak after 
the second attendance, it appears that potentially the pipe should have been disconnected 
and as more water was present, it should have been sucked out.
This would suggest that IPA thought the engineers couldve done more to stop the problems 
and certainly it seems that disconnecting the pipe wouldve been likely to stop water leaking. 
This indicates that further leaking couldve been stopped at least seven hours before it was.
The adjusters report also put the cause of damage down to poor workmanship. IPAs notes 
show that the adjuster clarified that IPAs plumbers had attended twice and could not 
diagnose or fix the problem. But the private plumber had immediately diagnosed the problem 
and fixed the leak. So the adjuster concluded: Poor workmanship/poor tradesmen from 
Home Emergency Plumbers.
In my view, the evidence does suggest that IPA had two attempts to diagnose the actual 
issue and isolate the leak  even if the actual repair itself wasnt covered by the policy. I 
accept Mrs I was told the actual repair wouldnt be covered during the first plumbers visit. 
But I think that by sending out a second engineer despite knowing the actual fix wasnt 
covered, IPA accepted the responsibility to ensure the leak itself was stopped and to make 
sure there was no further internal damage. Its clear this didnt happen.
Because IPAs plumbers didnt at least disconnect the water to the toilet, it seems to me that 
the leak was going on for at least seven hours longer than it shouldve done and more likely 
around 12. So it follows that much more of the internal damage is likely to have happened 
during this period, than when the claim was first made. This means I think IPA is, on 
balance, liable for the majority of the resulting internal damage.
With that said though, I do accept that some internal damage is always likely to happened 
between the claim being made and IPA first coming out. And I do think it mightve been 
appropriate for Mrs I and her family to turn off the water supply once they knew the leak was 
still going. So I agree an 80% contribution towards the cost of the internal repairs is the fair 
outcome here.
What should IPA base settlement on?
IPA believes settlement should be based on the loss adjusters scope of works. Mr I feels we 
should use an average of his contractors quotes and disregard the adjusters scope.
Like the investigator, Ive also done a broad comparison of the three quotations. The third 
quote is substantially higher than the adjusters scope and the first contractors quote. It also 
includes repairs to the loft, which arent mentioned on the adjusters scope or the first quote. 
While the toilet itself was in the loft and putting right the damage to the room itself appears 
on all three quotes, it isnt clear why or how the rest of the loft was damaged. So I dont think 
these costs should be included.
The quotes for the toilet itself differ quite markedly between the adjusters quote and the two 
independent quotes. On this basis, it seems more likely the works to reinstate the toilet are 
higher than the quote given by the adjuster. In most other areas though, I think the adjusters 
scope and the first quote are broadly the same. So Im persuaded these costs are broadly in 
line with what the repair works are likely to cost. While sometimes, I may decide its fair for an insurer to limit settlement to its adjusters scope costings, in these circumstances, it 
seems fair to base settlement on this independent quote overall.
The first independent quote is for £6774, inclusive of VAT. So Im directing IPA to pay Mrs I 
80% of these costs.
What is fair compensation for Mrs I distress and inconvenience?
I appreciate Mr I feels IPA should pay Mrs I £1000 compensation. Ive thought carefully 
about this. Ive listened to the calls between Mrs I and IPA and I can hear her obvious 
frustration and distress. Im also mindful of the likely worry of watching the ceilings bow due 
to the water leaking, especially when children were in the home as well. And Im aware Mrs I 
and her family had to make a number of calls to IPA to try to resolve things.
It also seems that Mrs I has had to live with the resulting damage from the leak for many 
months. I dont doubt this mustve been distressing for her and has impacted on her and her 
family ever since the claim happened. So it seems to me that overall, Mrs I has suffered 
significant inconvenience. And its fair that IPA should recognise the trouble and upset its 
caused her.
Like the investigator, I think £400 is a fair amount for IPA to pay. I think it fairly recognises 
the distress Mrs I suffered when the leak continued and IPAs plumbers hadnt been able to 
diagnose the issue. And I think it also compensates her for the inconvenience of living in a 
water damaged home for several months.
So Im telling IPA to pay Mrs I £400 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Is complaint.
I direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Mrs I 80% of the costs of getting the internal 
repairs done, based on the contractors quote of £6774.
I also direct IPA to pay Mrs I £400 for her distress and inconvenience.
Inter Partner Assistance SA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mrs I accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
*If IPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs I how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs I a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman