DRN-3127759
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the maturity value they received from their endowment with 
Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Js mortgage endowment matured on 7 March 2021. In mid-March Mrs J 
contacted Scottish Friendly and asked about the endowment as they hadnt heard anything. 
Scottish Friendly said itd sent them paperwork in January to claim the value, but would 
resend this. Mrs J says she asked about the value of the endowment in the call and was 
given an amount, but was also told this could change by a few pounds.
Scottish Friendly didnt receive the paperwork Mr and Mrs J returned, so in April 2021, 
following a further phone call it sent them another copy. And again at this time they checked 
the endowment value. It had increased since the March phone call. When Mr and Mrs J 
received the endowment pay-out it was less than both the quotations theyd received, so 
they made a complaint to Scottish Friendly.
Mr and Mrs J were unhappy they hadnt received the value theyd been quoted and 
considered theyd been given around £2,000 less than they were owed. And they were 
unhappy that the January 2021 letters werent followed up with them when they didnt reply  
and then their original paperwork wasnt received and there were delays in responding to 
them. Scottish Friendly offered £25 for the delays, but said the amount theyd been paid was 
correct.
Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to our service. They felt they should receive the higher 
sum they were quoted, as the delays by Scottish Friendly couldve impacted the amount they 
were paid out. They were unhappy Scottish Friendly hadnt answered their question around 
the policy value increasing after maturity and how this happened. As part of its file response 
to our service Scottish Friendly offered £100 in compensation for not picking up that a 
complaint was made as early as possible. And it not answering the question around why a 
reminder letter wasnt set.
Our investigator thought the compensation awarded was fair and that the correct payment 
had been made to Mr and Mrs J. They asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint as 
they said they didnt understand how they could be quoted higher amounts after the maturity 
date. And they were unhappy there was no record of their phone calls with Scottish Friendly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the paperwork for Mr and Mrs Js mortgage endowment, and Im satisfied that 
the amount they received at maturity was the correct value for their endowment. Theyve 
asked how the endowment value changed after maturity, but the amount they were entitled 
to didnt. While they were given different amounts for the value of their endowment after it 
matured, these were given in error. Scottish Friendly has explained that its possible the 
figures were based on what the units they had wouldve been worth if the endowment hadnt 
passed its maturity date. But the figure Mr and Mrs J shouldve been supplied with was the 
endowments value on the day it matured, and this didnt and doesnt change. And I can see 
this is the figure thats been paid.
That then leaves me to decide what compensation, if any, should be awarded for the error. I 
dont agree Mr and Mrs J are due to the higher value they were quoted, as this was never 
something they were entitled to. And theyve told us that even when they received the two 
figures post maturity, they were warned the value could change. So I cant say they couldve 
reasonably taken any actions based on the higher figure, as they ought to have been aware 
it could change. That then leaves me to conclude that the impact of this has mainly been 
disappointment. But again, with an investment that can be the case regardless of whether 
misinformation has been given, as the value wasnt set or guaranteed.
Mr and Mrs J have complained that they dont understand how the investment value 
changed after maturity and so where the extra money they were quoted has now gone. But 
the amount they were due is the investments value on the day it was due to mature. While 
the advisors gave Mr and Mrs J the value of the investment the day they called, their actual 
policy ended on 7 March 2021. So the correct figure for them to have been told was what the 
endowment was worth that day. How Scottish Friendly dealt with the units that were invested 
isnt really the consideration here, as the value Mr and Mrs J were due is linked to the day 
the fund matured. From that point on the units were no longer theirs and the amount they 
were due to be paid was set and is what they received.
I appreciate this complaint has come about because the values given after the endowments 
maturity date were greater than the value at maturity. But if the fund had decreased in value 
post maturity, and so they were given lower quotes when they called, Mr and Mrs J wouldve 
still been entitled to the value on 7 March 2021  as this is the date their investment 
matured.
Mr and Mrs J have asked why they werent chased about the endowment or sent reminders 
when they didnt reply to the January 2021 letter. But Scottish Friendly did chase them in 
March 2021. And, it seems this complaint point is linked their belief that the endowment 
value was variable post maturity, so better communication couldve given them a better 
return. However, as above, this was not the case. Im satisfied the reminder Scottish Friendly 
did send is sufficient and that this didnt impact the endowment value, as the maturity value 
was set at of 7 March 2021.
I agree that Scottish Friendly couldve provided a better service in terms of responding to 
Mr and Mrs Js queries, both in terms of content and timeliness. But Im satisfied £125 total 
compensation is fair for this and accounts for the inconvenience they were caused. I dont 
agree there are any additional losses, so Im not increasing this figure or awarding for 
anything else.  If any of this amount hasnt been paid to Mr and Mrs J, Scottish Friendly 
should now make this payment.
My final decision
My decision is that the compensation offered by Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited 
is fair in Mr and Mrs Js case.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman