DRN-4421016
Complaint
Mr H has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) irresponsibly provided 
him with an overdraft which it continued applying charges on even when he was in financial 
difficulty.
Background
Nationwide initially provided Mr H with an overdraft that had a limit of £50 in December 2019. 
Over the course of the following three months the limit on the overdraft was increased until it 
reached £2,000.00 in March 2020.
In April 2023, Mr H complained that Nationwide irresponsibly provided him with his overdraft 
and that this caused him financial difficulty.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Hs complaint and thought that Nationwide hadnt done 
anything wrong when initially providing Mr H with his overdraft or increasing the limit. 
However, she also thought that Nationwide should have realised that Mr Hs overdraft had 
become demonstrably unsustainable for him by March 2021 and that it needed to refund all 
the interest, fees and charges added to the account from this point onwards. 
Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators view and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for review.  
My provisional decision of 20 September 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 20 September 2023 - setting out why I was intending to 
partially uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
In summary, I thought that Mr Hs complaint should be partially upheld because:
I was satisfied that Nationwide hadnt acted unfairly when initially providing Mr Hs 
overdraft or increasing the limit to £500.
However, the checks carried out before the limit was subsequently increased (over 
£500) werent reasonable and proportionate and the information provided suggested 
that Mr H wasnt in a position to be able to sustainably repay £2,000.00 within a 
reasonable period of time. So Nationwide didnt act fairly and reasonably towards   
Mr H when increasing his overdraft limit.
Nationwide ought reasonably to have realised that Mr Hs overdraft had become 
demonstrably unsustainable for him by March 2021 and therefore should not have 
continued offering the facility on the same terms. Nationwide continuing to offer the 
overdraft to Mr H in this way, was another reason why it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards Mr H.
I then set out a method of putting things right which I considered addressed Nationwides 
shortcomings and Mr Hs resulting loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H confirmed that he accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide anything further 
to me to consider.
Nationwide disagreed with my provisional decision stating:
It is neither reasonable nor proportionate to undertake the type of review I suggested 
needed to be carried out before Mr Hs overdraft limit was increased to £2,000.00. 
There is no regulation that asks lenders to complete this type of review and therefore 
what I stated in my provisional decision, in respect of what Nationwide ought to have 
done before lending to Mr H, was in direct contradiction to the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), specifically CONC 5.2A.
Its lending policy is compliant with CONC both now and at the time it lent to Mr H.
Where account conduct was taken into account lenders would have different views of 
this. And new overdraft lending on new current accounts wouldnt be able to be 
scrutinised in the same way because lenders wouldnt have the transaction history to 
consider the account conduct.
My provisional decision ultimately suggested that Nationwide should have, with 
hindsight, gone above and beyond the regulatory requirements.
I failed to recognise the industry wide agreement not to remove overdraft facilities 
during the unprecedented situation of the pandemic and that the regulator supported 
this approach.
Taking the sort of steps I set out in my provisional decision would have resulted in 
similar measures having to be taken for other customers in a similar situation. And 
this would have come at a huge financial cost, which would have been in addition to 
the costs that lenders had already incurred due to regulator instructed payment 
holidays on loans and mortgages. Such steps would not have been realistic to 
implement. 
Had Mr H reached out and agreed a payment plan all future interest and charges 
would have been suppressed. The steps proposed in my provisional decision would 
nonsensically provide customers with the incentive not to engage with it.    
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Nationwides response to my provisional decision. But having done so, as 
well as considering everything else provided from the outset, Ive not been persuaded to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision and Im still partially 
upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Nationwide needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Nationwide needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether        
Mr H would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Nationwides initial decision to provide Mr H with an overdraft and then increase the limit 
Nationwide has said that its lending policy was (at the time it lent to Mr H) and remains 
compliant with CONC. In my provisional decision, I wrote that Nationwide hadnt really said 
anything at all about the checks it carried out before its initial decision to provide Mr H with 
an overdraft and then increase the limit and that it hadnt even properly explained when 
exactly Mr Hs overdraft limit increases actually took place. 
And despite continuing to reiterate its lending criteria is compliant with CONC, Nationwide 
still hasnt properly explained what it did to establish that Mr Hs overdraft and subsequent 
limit increases were affordable for him. Indeed, Nationwide appears to believe that I will 
accept it as fact that it did what is what required to if it keeps on insisting that it did.
While Nationwide might wish for a blow-by-blow account of why its checks prior to lending to 
Mr H werent reasonable and proportionate, without it telling me exactly what checks were 
carried out, I simply cannot provide such an account. To be clear, my finding here is that as 
Nationwide is either unable or unwilling to explain what it did to determine that Mr Hs 
overdraft and subsequent limit increases were affordable for him, despite having been 
provided with plenty of opportunity to do so, Im not prepared to accept that Nationwide did 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before making any of these lending 
decisions. 
For the avoidance of doubt, this means that Nationwide hasnt provided sufficient evidence 
and information to satisfy me that it did undertake a creditworthiness assessment and had 
proper regard to the outcome of that assessment in respect of affordability risk, both when 
entering into a regulated credit agreement with Mr H and when significantly increasing his 
credit limit. 
As this is the case, Ill now proceed to consider what I think reasonable and proportionate 
checks are likely to have shown.
The £50 and £500 overdraft limits 
 
Mr Hs overdraft was an open-ended (running account) agreement (in other words, while 
Nationwide was required to periodically review the facility, there was no fixed end date) 
where there was an expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due 
within a reasonable period of time. CONC didnt set out what a reasonable period of time was. So I think its important to note that a reasonable period of time will always be 
dependent on the circumstances of the individual case. 
It's fair to say that overdraft limits of £50 and £500 required relatively small payments in 
order to clear the full amount owed within a reasonable period of time. Furthermore, Ive 
seen that Mr H was earning enough to clear these amounts should he borrow them, 
relatively quickly. And the risk of limits of £50 and £500 proving to be unsustainable for Mr H 
(and therefore the risk of harm of Mr H getting into financial difficulty) given what he earned 
at the time, was relatively low.
So while I cant say that Nationwide carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
providing Mr H with his overdraft and then increasing his limit to £500, I nonetheless think 
that carrying out such checks are unlikely to have shown Nationwide that Mr H didnt have 
the funds to make the low payments required to clear such amounts within a reasonable 
period of time. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint about initially being provided with an 
overdraft or his first limit increase. 
The limit increase to £2,000.00
There can be no dispute that the limit increase to £2,000.00 was a significant increase. So, 
as per CONC 5.2A.4R (3), Nationwide was required to undertake a creditworthiness 
assessment and have proper regard to the outcome of that assessment in respect of the risk 
of Mr H being able to repay £2,000.00 and all of the interest accrued within a reasonable 
period of time. As Ive repeatedly pointed out, Nationwide hasnt properly explained what it 
did to understand that Mr H would be able to repay £2,000.00 within a reasonable period of 
time. 
In any event, whatever it did, in my view, Nationwide appears to have placed limited weight 
on Mr Hs account conduct in the period leading up to the overdraft limit increase of 
£2,000.00. Nationwide states that that my suggestion that this was a matter it ought to have 
taken into account when deciding whether to lend is in direct contradiction to CONC and 
specifically CONC 5.2A. Considering CONC 5.2A has 37 sections and a number of 
subsections within this, Nationwide seems to be using the term specifically rather loosely. 
But, in any event, while Im considering whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr H, rather than carrying out a compliance check, I nonetheless dont believe that 
my analysis directly contradicts CONC. Indeed, CONC 5.2A.7R states:
A firm must base its creditworthiness assessment on sufficient information:
(1)of which it is aware at the time the creditworthiness assessment is carried out;

the information must enable the firm to carry out a reasonable creditworthiness assessment.
Given Mr Hs account conduct was information Nationwide will have been aware of (it may 
have chosen not to use this but it will have been aware of this) at the time, I dont see how 
expecting this to play a part in Nationwides assessment is in direct contradiction to CONC 
5.2A. On the contrary, I would say that this is entirely consistent with CONC 5.2A.7R.
Nationwide says not all lenders will have access to transaction history in order to scrutinise 
account conduct in the way that I suggested that it should have been scrutinised in Mr Hs case. And this would likely result in lenders reaching different outcomes. This might well 
happen, particularly as a firm will typically only be aware of the customers current account 
conduct in relation to any current accounts held with the firm. 
But given CONC 5.2A.20R states that the extent and scope of a creditworthiness 
assessment should be dependent on and proportionate to the individual circumstances of 
each case, a one size fits all approach utilised by the entire industry is very unlikely to result 
in compliance with this provision in every case.   
Given Mr Hs limit was being increased to an amount which was significantly more than his 
monthly salary and Nationwide had information relating to the account conduct available, Im 
satisfied that it is fair and reasonable to expect Nationwide to have taken this into account in 
this instance. 
I particularly consider this to be the case, as although Nationwide hasnt confirmed this, 
some of the information provided appears to suggest that it relied on the total amount of 
funds coming into the account, rather than Mr Hs actual income, when assessing his ability 
to repay his overdraft. Its also worth noting that Nationwide didnt suggest otherwise in its 
response to my provisional decision.
And as I explained in my provisional decision, Im concerned that Mr Hs account statements 
showed a number of transactions which ought to have called into question his ability to 
sustainably repay twice his monthly salary, on demand and in any event within a reasonable 
period of time. I remain satisfied that it was not fair and reasonable for Nationwide to on the 
one hand rely on the credits as consisting of income without also considering the debits. 
Particularly as Nationwide appears to have concluded that Mr H would be able to repay 
£2,000.00 within a reasonable period of time despite his actual monthly income being 
significantly less than this.
In these circumstances, and in the continued absence of anything from Nationwide which 
demonstrates what it considered Mr Hs monthly income to be and how it validated this, I 
remain satisfied Nationwide ought reasonably to have concluded that there was a significant 
risk that Mr H might not have been able to repay what he owed without borrowing further or 
experiencing financial difficulty. 
Nationwide has said that the level of checks suggested in my provisional decision extends 
beyond the regulations. Its not entirely clear which regulations it believes this extends 
beyond, given it also argues that this sort of check directly contradicts CONC. Nonetheless, 
for the reasons Ive already explained, Im satisfied that my conclusions on what Nationwide 
ought to have taken into account when determining whether Mr H could sustainably repay an 
overdraft limit of £2,000.00, in order to have acted fairly and reasonably, does not go beyond 
the regulations that were in place at the time. In fact, I consider it is entirely consistent with 
Nationwides responsible lending obligations as outlined in CONC 5.2A.
As Nationwide increased Mr Hs overdraft limit to an amount which significantly exceeded his 
monthly income, without any other obvious indication that he had the funds to repay this in a 
sustainable manner, I dont think that Nationwide treated Mr H fairly and reasonably when it 
increased his overdraft limit to £2,000.00 in March 2020. 
Mr H paid additional interest and charges on credit he shouldnt have been provided with in 
the first place. So I think that he lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong and this 
finding is relevant to the first part of how Im intending to direct Nationwide to put things right 
for Mr H in the Fair compensation  what Nationwide needs to do to put things right for          
Mr H section of this final decision.The position from March 2021 onwards
In addition to carrying out an assessment of affordability before providing Mr H with an 
overdraft and any limit increases, Nationwide was also required to continue reviewing Mr Hs 
account usage to see whether any limit remained sustainable for him going forwards.   
Nationwide ought to be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out here.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Nationwide acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Mr Hs entire balance 
(including the £500 portion it was reasonable to provide in the first place) from March 2021. 
By this point, Mr Hs account hadnt seen a credit balance in the year since his limit had 
been increased. 
Mr Hs statements show that he was taking on additional borrowing elsewhere including with 
one high-cost lender too. So the activity on Mr Hs account didnt suggest he was in any sort 
of position to repay what he already owed without undue difficulty or borrowing further either.
And, in these circumstances, I think that by March 2021, at the absolute latest, Nationwide 
should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Mr H with 
forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft. 
Nationwide says that both our adjudicators conclusions and my provisional decision on this 
matter fail to acknowledge that the overdraft usage referred to occurred during the pandemic 
and so it was limited in what it was able to do, because of an industry wide agreement 
regarding overdrafts and regulatory guidance not to remove overdraft lending from existing 
borrowers. 
It also says that Mr H was identified as being a repeat use overdraft customer in December 
2020 and was sent letters in December 2020, April 2022 and April 2023 directing him to 
consider his overdraft usage. But action wasnt taken because there was an agreement that 
overdrafts wouldnt be removed.
In response to my provisional decision, Nationwide has asked me to acknowledge that there 
was an industry-wide agreement not to remove overdraft facilities even in situations where 
the facility was set to expire, or as part of its risk appetite, it would look to revoke the facility. 
And it wants this final decision to acknowledge that the regulator supported this and every 
UK lender was implementing this practice during the pandemic.
I dont know if the banking industry took the decision not to remove or reduce overdrafts 
under any circumstances during the course of the pandemic. Indeed, my experience of 
deciding overdraft complaints about events from this period lead me to think that there 
wasnt an absolute prohibition on this. 
Furthermore, I do find Nationwides argument that it was merely doing what other 
banks/lenders were doing to be somewhat ironic. Nonetheless, regardless of what the 
industry position might have been, I do think that Nationwide is only telling half the story 
when it comes to the regulators requirements and guidance at the time. Nationwide hasnt 
specifically stated what in particular it feels demonstrated the FCAs support of its (and the 
industrys) position.
 However, the FCAs Overdrafts and coronavirus: additional guidance for firms1 (the 
additional guidance) published in September 2020 does set out some idea of the FCAs 
thinking around the time my provisional decision concluded that Nationwide ought 
reasonably to have acted in relation to Mr H.
Section 2.8 of this guidance states:
2.8. A firm should not reduce the credit limit or suspend or remove the overdraft facility of 
a customer receiving help under this guidance if that reduction, suspension or 
removal would cause financial hardship to the customer.
Its unclear whether Mr H received any help under the coronavirus guidance. Nonetheless 
section 6 of the guidance does cover repeat use strategies. And Section 6.6 states:
6.6.      In line with paragraph 2.8 above, firms should not reduce or withdraw the overdraft 
facility where it would cause financial hardship to the customer.
Having considered the additional guidance, I dont think that there was an absolute 
prohibition on reducing or removing overdrafts in the way that Nationwide suggested. More 
importantly, I havent seen anything at all to suggest that Nationwide took any steps to 
assess what if any financial hardship would be caused to Mr H should his overdraft have 
been reduced or removed.
So it isnt immediately clear to me how Nationwide continuing to allow Mr H to use his 
overdraft in the way that he was, rather than taking corrective action, was in his best 
interests or with a view to preventing him from experiencing financial hardship.
For the sake of completeness, Id also point out that even if I were to accept that Nationwide 
couldnt or shouldnt have reduced or removed Mr Hs overdraft because of the pandemic, I 
do find Nationwides argument that it couldnt take any action at all to be fallacious. I firstly 
say this because even if it genuinely believed that it wasnt able to remove Mr Hs overdraft 
during the pandemic, this didnt mean that it had to continue applying interest, fees and 
charges in the same way. Nationwide almost presents it as fact that it had a binary choice 
between removing Mr Hs overdraft or continuing to charge him in the same way.  
However, section 5.6 of the additional guidance stated:
5.6       When providing support to customers experiencing difficulties with their finances as a 
result of circumstances related to coronavirus, whether under this guidance or in 
accordance with the repeat use rules in CONC 5D, firms should provide forbearance 
that is appropriate to the individual circumstances of the customer, including doing 
one or more of the following where appropriate: 
 reducing or waiving interest 
 transferring the overdraft debt to an alternative credit product on more 
favourable terms ('refinancing') 
 agreeing a programme of staged reductions in the overdraft limit (and 
balance), ('agreeing a repayment plan')
And at section 5.10 the additional guidance stated:
1 https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/finalised-guidance/finalised-guidance-overdrafts-coronavirus-
additional-guidance-firms.pdf5.10.    Firms should not take a 'one size fits all' approach and a firm offering a single 
solution to all customers is unlikely to be consistent with this guidance, or CONC 5D. 
Firms should not repeatedly pursue one forbearance option, when it is more 
appropriate to consider alternative options.
Additionally, Nationwides position ignores that there isnt anything within CONC (and 
specifically CONC 7, which the regulators temporary guidance made clear remained in 
force) that requires a lender to default an account, or remove a facility, before assisting a 
customer who is struggling financially. This is a position that lenders such as Nationwide 
have chosen to adopt. If Nationwide was concerned about acting contrary to the industry 
agreed position not to remove overdrafts, it could have taken some of the other actions 
suggested in section 5.6 of the additional guidance - such as providing the facility interest 
free for an extended period  and left his overdraft in place.
Nationwide says that Mr H wont have been the only customer affected this way. And it is 
logical to assume that my provisional decision suggests that interest should have been 
frozen for all overdraft customers in Mr Hs position and this would have come at huge 
financial cost. However, my role is limited to deciding whether Nationwide acted fairly and 
reasonably towards Mr H given the particular circumstances here. I cannot and do not make 
any suggestion on what Nationwide should do for other customers. 
Nationwides advancement of, what I consider to be, a straw man argument here betrays a 
fundamental misunderstanding of the concept of proportionality and the need for a tailored 
solution. As set out in section 5.10 of the additional guidance a one size fits all approach (for 
all customers) is unlikely to have been consistent with the guidance. So it doesnt 
automatically follow that all customers should have had interest, fees and charges 
suspended on their overdrafts just because thats what I think should have happened here - 
given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case.
In this case, Nationwides response to its identification of Mr Hs problem - namely that his 
overdraft usage had become demonstrably unsustainable (as I explained in my provisional 
decision Nationwides own records appear to indicate the facility was earmarked for removal 
in April 2022) was to continue with its usual process and send further letters and emails. 
Indeed, if I take Nationwides argument to its logical conclusion here, I see it as being that it 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr H because it sent him letters as it had identified that 
his overdraft usage had become a problem. And because Mr H didnt respond to the letters it 
was reasonable to continue allowing Mr H to use his overdraft in the same way. In my view, 
this ignores the fact that there comes a point where a lender cannot continue simply relying 
on a borrower not responding to letters or not wanting to discuss the situation. 
After all there are many reasons why a consumer might not want to get into discussions 
about their finances even though theyre in a situation where theyre struggling, or they may 
even go further and say they can and will make payment when the reality is they cant. While 
Mr H didnt contact Nationwide, most likely because he didnt realise the impact failing to 
deal with the matter at hand was having, I dont think it was reasonable for Nationwide to 
conclude that hed be able to clear the persistent debt he was in. 
Particularly as Nationwides actions (and Mr Hs continued usage of overdraft in the same 
way) were never likely to remedy the situation. Pointing Mr H towards self-help and money 
guidance simply wasnt working. Whether or not Nationwide followed the same process for 
other customers during this period (even in the face of similar results), is neither here nor 
there, particularly as Im not familiar with the circumstances of those other customers. My proposed direction, of Nationwide refunding all of the interest, fees and charges added to 
Mr Hs overdraft, was (and remains) based on the particular circumstances of Mr Hs 
complaint. In other words, I was (and still am) looking towards a fair and reasonable way of 
putting things right, sometime after action should have been taken, as a result of 
Nationwides actions causing Mr H to pay high amounts of interest and charges (relative to 
the amount he owed) for the privilege of being allowed to continue holding, what Mr Hs 
actions and Nationwides earmarking of Mr Hs overdraft for removal suggested, was a debt 
that had become unsustainable. 
So as far as Im concerned Nationwides actions in allowing Mr H to continue using his 
overdraft and incurring further charges, when everything it had was suggesting he would 
struggle to be able to, worsened Mr Hs problem rather than helped him. These are my 
findings given the circumstances in this case and Im satisfied that this means that 
Nationwide needs to put things right for Mr H.
Overall and having considered Nationwides further arguments, I remain satisfied that it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably towards Mr H by not taking corrective action in relation to 
his overdraft when it ought to have realised he was struggling to repay what had become a 
problem debt by March 2021 at the latest. 
It follows that Im still upholding Mr Hs complaint on this basis and Im satisfied that my 
direction to Nationwide on how it should put things right for Mr H should also reflect this. This 
finding is relevant to the second part of how Im directing Nationwide to put things right for  
Mr H in the Fair compensation  what Nationwide needs to do to put things right for Mr H 
section of this final decision. 
Fair compensation  what Nationwide needs to do to put things right for Mr H
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Hs complaint for Nationwide to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Hs current overdraft balance so that:
a) interest, fees and charges are only charged on the first £500 of any 
overdrawn balance from March 2020 to March 2021. Any interest, fees 
and charges applied to balances over £500 between March 2020 to 
March 2021 should be removed. This is to reflect the fact that Mr Hs 
overdraft limit should not have been increased from £500 to £2,000.00 in 
March 2021.
b) all interest, fees and charges added to the overdraft from March 2021 
onwards are removed. This is to reflect the fact that Nationwide ought to 
have realised that the overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable 
for Mr H by this stage at the latest and he should have been offered 
forbearance.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once adjustments a and b (set 
out above) have been made Nationwide should contact Mr H to arrange a 
suitable repayment plan Mr H is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate 
with Nationwide to reach a suitable agreement for this. If it considers it 
appropriate to record negative information on Mr Hs credit file, it should reflect 
what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking corrective 
action on the overdraft in March 2021. Nationwide can also reduce Mr Hs overdraft limit by the amount of any refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, 
as long as doing so wouldnt leave him over his limit.
OR
If the effect of carrying out the above adjustments results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr H along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the 
date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding 
balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Nationwide should 
remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file. Nationwide can also 
reduce Mr Hs overdraft limit by the amount of the refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 20 September 2023, 
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Nationwide Building Society should put things right in the 
way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman