DRN-2248219
The complaint
Miss C has complained about the way esure Insurance Limited deal with a claim made 
under her car insurance policy. Shes also unhappy with its decision to settle the claim as a 
fault claim.
What happened
Miss C was involved in an incident with another vehicle and reported it to her insurer, esure 
in March 2020. Based on the circumstances as she described, esure told Miss C the claim 
would most likely be settled as a non fault claim. And esure told Miss C her excess would 
be waived.
However, in April 2020 esure told Miss C that her claim would be settled as a fault claim on 
a without prejudice basis.
esure accepted that it didnt properly manage Miss Cs expectations and for this it 
apologised. But it said its decision as to how to settle the claim was correct. For its poor 
handling of the claim, esure paid Miss C a total of £250 compensation.
Miss C asked us to look at her complaint. She said esures handling of the claim had caused 
her stress and anxiety. She said shed spent the equivalent of a working week having to deal 
with the claim and she wanted compensation to reflect that. Miss C said she was left injured 
by the incident and doesnt feel esure properly considered the circumstances of the incident 
and reached the wrong decision on liability. Miss C wants esure to refund the excess as it 
told her she wouldnt have to pay it. And she wants it to record the claim as a non fault 
claim.
Our investigator explained that we dont decide liability, but look at whether an insurer 
reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. In this case, she thought esure 
had settled the claim fairly and had done enough to put things right for its poor service. 
Miss C didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to read that Miss C was injured in the incident. I think it would help to set out our 
role when looking at complaints about how a claim has been settled. Its not for us to decide 
liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether an insurer reached its 
decision reasonably and in line with the policy. Miss Cs policy has a very common term 
which says esure can take over the defence and settlement of a claim as it sees fit. This 
means esure might make a decision Miss C disagrees with, but the policy allows esure to do 
this. We dont disagree with this term in principle provided esure can show it treated Miss C 
fairly when applying it. 
Miss C and the third party gave different accounts as to what happened when the incident 
occurred. Miss C says that she pulled out from a left hand lane to overtake a vehicle on the 
motorway in plenty of time and when it was safe. When she had done so, the third party 
collided into the rear of her car. 
The other driver said that Miss C had pulled out in front of them and then braked, causing 
the collision. 
There were no independent witnesses and no CCTV available. esure considered both 
versions of events and decided that Miss C would most likely be held at fault if the matter 
went to court. The other driver was established in the lane and proceeding forward   Miss C 
overtook another vehicle and changed lanes to go in front of the other driver while travelling 
at around 50mph. In this case, esure considered the reduction in the breaking distance for 
the other driver as a result of Miss Cs manoeuvre. The other driver said they were travelling 
at 60mph. 
In esures opinion, the chances of successfully proving the other driver was at fault for the 
incident was low if the matter went to court. esure is entitled to make a decision that its 
better to settle a claim on the best terms possible, than risk significant costs by pursuing the 
matter to court with what it considers a low chance of success. So while I understand Miss C 
doesnt agree with esures decision, I think esure properly considered the circumstances and 
reached its decision in a reasonable way, based on the evidence it had. 
I think esures handling of the claim was at times poor and it provided conflicting information 
to Miss C a number of times. esure initially proceeded on the basis the claim would be 
settled as a non fault claim and so it referred Miss C to a solicitor to look to recover Miss 
Cs uninsured losses. 
When things go wrong, we look at what should have happened and what an insurer did to 
put things right. In this case, I think esure caused confusion and misled Miss C. I think it 
should have managed Miss Cs expectations better from the outset at the possibility that the 
claim might not certainly be settled as a non fault claim. And I agree with Miss C that she 
was told she wouldnt have to pay her excess more than once. 
I understand the impact the incident and the handling of the claim has had on Miss C as she 
has described. Being involved in an incident is upsetting. And having to deal with a claim is 
an event which  fortunately doesnt happen often  but will take up some time and 
inconvenience. This is inevitable. However, I think esures poor handling added to what 
would be a reasonable level of inconvenience and distress for Miss C in the circumstances. 
The excess under Miss Cs policy is  as with all insurance policies  the first payment owed 
when a claim is made. Depending on how a claim is settled  sometimes if liability is clear 
from the outset  an insurer can decide to waive the excess. Had esures communication 
been clearer, I think Miss Cs expectations might have been better managed much sooner. 
However, it doesnt follow that esures failings mean that it should refund Miss Cs excess, 
as this was correctly owed. So I dont think esure should refund the excess Miss C paid. But 
for the upset and confusion esure caused by its poor service, I think it should compensate 
Miss C. And I think the £250 it paid is reasonable and in line with awards which we give in 
similar cases. 
I realise Miss C will be very disappointed with my decision. But taking everything into 
account, I think the compensation esure has paid is enough to resolve Miss Cs complaint 
about the service she received. And I think its decision to settle the claim as a fault claim was reached reasonably and in line with the policy. As its settled the claim as a without 
prejudice basis, this doesnt prevent Miss C from seeking alternative action if she wishes. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman