DRN-4262564
The complaint
Mr M complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) misinformed him about drawing his 
pension benefits causing a delay whilst the value of his fund was falling. He would like 
compensation for the losses. 
Your text here
What happened
Mr M had a personal pension plan (the plan) with Zurich. He says he wanted to take benefits 
after 6 April 2022, as hed received State benefits that would have to be repaid if he took his 
pension before then. In August 2021 he contacted Zurich to ask if he could just take tax-free 
cash. It said the plan didnt offer this but could be transferred to a different provider if 
required. A few days later the Origo electronic transfer system was discussed, and Zurich 
sent Mr M transfer forms. He called again on 27 January 2022 about taking all his benefits in 
one go (Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum - UFPLS) and it sent him the necessary 
form. 
On 1 March 2022 Mr M called and asked if the fund value could be frozen until 6 April 2022. 
Zurich said this wasnt possible. He said the value of his fund had fallen and there was a 
discussion about the investment funds held. The process of taking benefits was discussed 
again including the option to postdate the paperwork to be dealt with on or after 6 April 2022. 
Mr M said hed think about this. 
Mr M then called Zurich on 8 March 2022 to chase the transfer of his plan to another 
provider, via the Origo system. Zurich said it hadnt received a transfer request which 
needed to be made by the other provider. He said he was concerned about sharp falls in the 
value of his investment and wanted to access his fund urgently and asked the quickest way 
to do this. Zurich said Origo was the quickest way. Mr M asked if there was another option 
and Zurich explained how he could draw the benefits and the timeframes involved. It said the 
value used would be the day of the request if received before noon, or the next day if after. 
But could then take up to three weeks to complete. Mr M asked again if the value could be 
frozen. Zurich said it couldnt but as he was quite distressed it opened a complaint. He 
completed the forms already sent to him, returning them by next day delivery. 
On 10 March 2022, Zurich called Mr M because hed been distressed on the call of 8 March 
2022. It said it had received his claim form and the value had been frozen that day and it 
would prioritise the claim reducing the timeframe from ten working days to five. Mr M said 
hed lost money on the policy due to Zurichs poor advice and confusion over the transfer. 
Zurich said if hed mentioned he was concerned that his funds were high risk it could have 
discussed other funds with him. It asked him if he wanted to continue taking his benefits and 
he confirmed that he did, and payment was made on 18 March 2022. 
Zurich said it thought there had been a misunderstanding about what Mr M wanted and it 
would look into it. But it didnt uphold his complaint. It said no incorrect or misleading 
information had been provided and there werent any delays or poor service. It said 
investment funds prices changed daily so it couldnt guarantee any value until it received all 
its requirements. And the recent falls in the stock markets were outside its control.
Mr M said he understood Zurich didnt provide financial advice but it was there to provide 
factual information and options under the plan so he could make the correct choices. He 
said if it had told him about the option to switch his investments to a safer fund before 10 
March 2022 or provided him with documents by email earlier the losses suffered in March 
2022 could have been avoided.  
Mr M referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold it. 
Our investigator said Zurich didnt provide advice, so it couldnt recommend Mr M switch 
investment funds even though he was concerned about falling values. He said the annual 
statements confirmed Zurich couldnt give advice about switching. And also reminded Mr M 
to review his investment fund choices and to take financial advice if required. He said the 
core reason for Mr Ms calls was to discuss transfer or the process to take his benefits rather 
than switching investments. 
Our investigator said that Zurich had correctly confirmed its processes in earlier calls. But Mr 
M had confirmed his plans had changed on 8 March 2022 and the confusion over the Origo 
system, but this related to the other provider rather than Zurich. He said Origo was the 
quickest way to transfer but Mr M now wanted to access his funds immediately due to his 
concerns about further falls in value. Our investigator said when Zurich called Mr M on 10 
March 2022 it gave him the option to cancel the withdrawal and did discuss switching funds. 
But Mr M chose to proceed with the withdrawal, which was processed promptly. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said Zurich hadnt provided any alternative options until 10 March 
2022 when it was too late. He said hed told it he wanted to stop the losses, but it had only 
discussed transfer via Origo or a postal application to take benefits. 
Our investigator said Mr M main concern was whether to transfer the plan or to take benefits 
rather than switching investments. And it would have been inappropriate for Zurich to 
recommend he simply switched funds. Mr M said his complaint was about what was not 
offered and had Zurich had dealt with things correctly he wouldnt have wasted time 
considering transfers. 
As Mr M doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 18 May 2023; I explained the reasons why I was planning 
to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I am planning to 
uphold the complaint.
At this stage I dont think Zurich has treated Mr M fairly. There was some confusion about 
the process involved in taking the benefits or transferring the plan to another provider. I think 
Zurich explained these matters fairly, and unfortunately, Mr M either somewhat 
misunderstood these explanations or has forgotten the specific details since then. 
These misunderstanding were a contributing factor to what happened. However, I think the 
key issue of this complaint is that Mr M was repeatedly expressing concerns about the falling 
value of his investment during a very turbulent period for investment markets. I think it was 
clear he was seeking was the most expedient option to protect the capital value of his 
investment before accessing his benefits. Zurich has said that information about fund switching and that investors should check fund 
choices remain appropriate, is set out in annual statements and other documents sent to Mr 
M during the life of his pension. So, he would be aware of these options. It says the wording 
of this information is carefully selected to avoid providing any advice. And it says if hed 
specifically asked about fund switches during the calls it:
would have confirmed this was an option and factual information about the funds 
available would have been provided.
But that:
being told unprompted of the possibility to switch into a less volatile fund could easily 
have been construed by Mr M as financial advice
That investment losses were Mr Ms primary concern is very clear on the calls made in 
March 2022. Particularly the call of 1 March 2022, where his investments were discussed in 
some detail. Zurich wasnt providing advice and nor was it able to do so. But it did provide 
some information about investment funds during this call and, unfortunately, I think it may 
have inadvertently confused Mr M as well. 
During this call Mr M asks:
Can I freeze or protect the funds?
The call handler says:
unfortunately no its on the stock market, you cant protect it
A discussion follows about the investment funds held in Mr Ms plan. Principally the 
geographical spread of one, the Far East fund, which he is concerned about and whether it 
had holdings in Russia. The call handler checks and explains where the fund predominately 
invests. Mr M then asks how frequently the funds can go up or down. The call handler says 
they go up and down every day and continues:
I know a lot of the stock market has been hit with the conflict in Russia and Ukraine 
and it has hit everything not just pensions 
Whilst I think it was unintended these comments could be construed as meaning that there 
was no option but to sit the current investment volatility out. Discussion then turns back to 
whether Mr M could give instructions to draw benefits after 6 April 2022 and whether this 
would freeze his fund, it is reconfirmed it wouldnt. 
Whilst Mr M didnt specifically ask about switching investment funds I think its clear from 
this call that he wasnt aware that he could. I think its reasonable that Zurich should have 
reminded him of this option, or that he might want to take financial advice. It could have 
directed him to where there was information about the investment funds offered by his plan. 
And this is what Zurichs complaint handler seems to think should have happened when she 
called him on 10 March 2022. Had it been mentioned it would have provided Mr M with an 
alternative option to taking or transferring his benefits. 
As Zurich has said, information about the option to switch and ensuring the selected 
investment funds remain appropriate are detailed in the annual statements sent to Mr M. But 
as noted above, I think that its quite clear that Mr M wasnt aware of this at the time. The 
annual statement issued in October 2021 gave a valuation and breakdown of the investment funds held. Following this in a section headed Are your funds right for you? is the following 
information in bold:
Savers who are close to retirement and planning to take their savings as a lump sum 
or annuity often hold more of their pension pot in cash and bonds, while those with 
longer to invest or who plan to take drawdown may typically hold more as shares and 
property.
We offer a range of funds to suit the amount of risk you want to take. If you're 
thinking of changing funds, please speak to your adviser. If you don't have an adviser 
you can call us instead. While we can't tell you what funds to invest in, we can point 
you in the right direction to get the help and support you need.
Mr M was repeatedly and expressing concerns about valuations and investment markets. 
Reminding him of this information or directing him to it wouldnt have constituted providing 
advice in my view. It would have been no different from the information given on the annual 
statement, which actually suggests calling Zurich to be pointed in the right direction.
Had Zurich confirmed earlier that Mr M could switch investment funds whilst stating it 
couldnt advise him what to do or whether he should. I think he would have made his own 
enquiries and switched into a fund offering a high degree of capital security like a Cash or 
Deposit fund that were available with Zurich. Mr M acted promptly on 8 March 2022 when 
hed clearly decided the ongoing losses couldnt be continued and it was worth incurring the 
tax and benefit costs to take control of the situation. So, there is no reason to think he 
wouldnt have acted equally as promptly had he been aware of the option to switch. Had he 
been informed and placed switch instructions on 1st or 2nd March 2022, I think its likely that 
Mr M wouldnt have accessed his benefits before the new tax year. 
So, I dont think Mr M has been treated reasonably. If hed been made aware I think he 
would have placed switch instructions the same day. Depending on what time these were 
received by Zurich, these would have been processed either the next day or the day after 
that. This may have reduced some of the losses Mr M says were incurred. If so, I think its 
reasonable that he be put back in the position he should have been in. Ill set out how I think 
this should be done below.
Ive also carefully thought about what happened after 8 March 2022 when Mr M submitted 
the request to access his benefits immediately. I dont think he would have done this had he 
been provided with information about the option to switch investment funds sooner. And 
doing so did give rise to tax and benefit repayment costs that he says wouldnt have been 
incurred post 6 April 2022. But I dont think it is reasonable for me to hold Zurich responsible 
for these costs.
I say this because, whilst I understand Mr M was distressed at the time, I think during the 
very long call of 10 March 2022, Zurich did treat Mr M fairly. It did explain switching options 
and that Mr Ms funds were now frozen. And it offered to stop the benefit withdrawal process. 
This was discussed at some length and Mr M was adamant he wanted to proceed with the 
withdrawal and was fully aware of the consequences of doing so and Zurich could only 
complete his instructions. 
Putting things right
Had Mr M been told about the option to switch I think he would have provided instructions 
the same day. So, the time of the call on 1 March 2022 is relevant and Zurich should provide 
evidence to confirm whether the fund switch would have been processed on the 2nd or 3rd 
March 2022.Zurich should compare the actual value of Mr Ms plan on 10 March 2022 when it 
was frozen for him to access benefits to the notional value available had he switched 
all funds on the relevant day (the 2nd or 3rd March 2022) to a Cash or Deposit fund (I 
understand this is to be the Fixed Interest Deposit Fund with Zurichs plan) which I 
think he would have done had he been made aware of the option to switch. 
If this notional value would have been higher, then Mr M has suffered a loss and he 
should be compensated for it.
As Mr M has fully encashed his plan it wont be possible for Zurich to pay any 
compensation due into the plan, so it will need to pay any compensation to him 
directly as a lump sum. 
Had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr M wont be 
able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
If either Zurich or Mr M dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must let 
us know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified, and Mr M 
receives appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this 
assumption once any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
If there is a loss Zurich should add interest at 8% per year simple to the net 
compensation it has calculated to the date of settlement. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Zurich deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Zurich should give Mr 
M a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
Zurich should provide Mr M with a simple calculation of how it arrived at its figures.
I think Mr M has been caused distress and inconvenience by what happened and 
that it is fair that Zurich pays him £150 compensation in respect of this. 
I asked parties should now send me any further information or comments they would like me 
to consider.
Response to provisional decision
Mr M said he accepted my decision. He said the income tax deducted by Zurich on the 
pension payment had been refunded by HMRC once hed submitted his tax return due to 
losses incurred in his start up business. He said he was also unlikely to be a taxpayer in the current tax year and said it wasnt fair that the compensation Id proposed be notionally 
reduced by 15% to allow for tax. 
Zurich disagreed with my decision. It said it was very disappointed I had dismissed the 
evidence showing it had repeatedly made Mr M aware he was responsible for reviewing his 
investment selections and making changes, if necessary, in its regular correspondence to 
him. This included when it sent a pre-retirement pack to him in August 2021. It reiterated its 
operatives couldnt provide advice on switching and telling Mr M about switching 
unprompted could have been construed as financial advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
I dont think Mr M has been treated fairly. I dont dispute that Zurich had previously provided 
Mr M with information that would have made him aware he options to switch funds, and I 
havent dismissed this. It isnt the role of our service to tell a business how it should 
administer products, but we can award compensation when we think procedures used have 
resulted in unfair outcomes as I think they have here.
I think when Mr M called Zurich, he was clearly concerned about what was happening to the 
value of his pension. He wanted to take action to protect the value of his fund. And in my 
view, he wasnt aware  at the time of the calls, probably due to stress and worry - that he 
could do anything about this other than to draw or transfer the benefits, having repeatedly 
asked if the value could be frozen and being told it could not. 
I dont think it was reasonable for Zurich to discuss in some detail one of the existing funds 
held, state that all investments were similarly impacted by World events (arguably advice 
itself on Zurichs interpretation argued here), but then not notify Mr M of features his plan 
offered that it was prepared to refer to in routine documents issued to him. 
Reading a similarly worded script about switching options to the information on the annual 
statements to Mr M in response to his request that his fund be frozen would not constitute 
advice in my opinion and I wouldnt construe it as such. That is information and very different 
from call handler saying, you should switch to fund x as its low risk or similar. A caveat 
could be added that advice wasnt and couldnt be provided and that Mr M might like to take 
advice if he was unsure about what to do. 
This would be merely pointing out features that Mr Ms plan provided. Taken to a logical 
conclusion Zurichs argument would prevent it from discussing any features of Mr Ms plan at 
all, such as what options it offered to take benefits for fear that it may direct him down a 
particular route and inadvertently advised him. I dont think that was reasonable not to 
mention appropriate features offered by the plan. And the staff member who called Mr M 
after the complaint was logged also seemed to think he could have been told about 
switching and to take financial advice if he wasnt sure about what to do. 
So, I dont think Mr M has been treated fairly and if he has suffered losses as a consequence 
Zurich should put him back into the position he should have been in as closely as possible.Putting things right
Had Mr M been told about the option to switch I think he would have provided instructions 
the same day. So, the time of the call on 1 March 2022 is relevant and Zurich should provide 
evidence to confirm whether the fund switch would have been processed on the 2nd or 3rd 
March 2022.
Zurich should compare the actual value of Mr Ms plan on 10 March 2022 when it 
was frozen for him to access benefits to the notional value available had he switched 
all funds on the relevant day (the 2nd or 3rd March 2022) to a Cash or Deposit fund (I 
understand this is to be the Fixed Interest Deposit Fund with Zurichs plan) which I 
think he would have done had he been made aware of the option to switch. 
If this notional value would have been higher, then Mr M has suffered a loss and he 
should be compensated for it.
As Mr M has fully encashed his plan it wont be possible for Zurich to pay any 
compensation due into the plan, so it will need to pay any compensation to him 
directly as a lump sum. 
Mr M has confirmed that the PAYE tax deducted when he encashed his Zurich 
pension has been repaid by HMRC due to his overall tax position. And due to 
historical losses carried forward, he doesnt expect to be a taxpayer in the current tax 
year. So, it isnt necessary to notionally reduce the any compensation due for income 
tax. Mr M should make any further evidence available to Zurich should it wish to see 
this. 
If there is a loss Zurich should add interest at 8% per year simple to the net 
compensation it has calculated to the date of settlement. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Zurich deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Zurich should give Mr 
M a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
Zurich should provide Mr M with a simple calculation of how it arrived at its figures.
I think Mr M has been caused distress and inconvenience by what happened and 
that it is fair that Zurich pays him £150 compensation in respect of this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Zurich Assurance Ltd.
I direct Zurich Assurance Ltd to undertake the loss calculation set out above and if this 
shows a loss pay compensation to Mr M as outlined. 
I further direct Zurich Assurance Ltd to pay Mr £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he has suffered. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman