DRN-3345538
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money was 
irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In August 2019 118 118 Money provided Mr R with a loan of £1,000. The loan was 
repayable over 12 months with monthly repayments of £100.90. It was repaid the following 
August. Mr R said the purpose of the loan was for a holiday.
Mr R complained that 118 118 Money hadnt carried out proper checks before lending to 
him.
118 118 Money looked into his complaint. It said it had carried out proper checks and it 
thought the loan was affordable. 
Mr R referred his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think 
118 118 Money was wrong to have offered the loan to Mr R. 
As Mr R didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Rs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr R would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr R wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Rs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr R undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr R. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
When he applied for the loan, Mr R told 118 118 Money that his monthly income was £2,125 
and his expenses came to £1,170.96 (being £240 rent, £469 on other credit commitments 
and £461.96 on other living expenses). This suggested that Mr R shouldve been able to 
afford to make the monthly repayments on the loan out of his disposable income according 
to the figures he had declared.
118 118 Money validated his income and carried out a credit search. There was nothing very 
concerning revealed by the credit search. The only negative information on the credit file 
was two historic defaults in the 36 months prior to his application. Mr R had had a county 
court judgment in the past but that had been satisfied by the time of his application. I think 
its fair to say that borrowers applying for loans of this type often have other credit on their 
record and sometimes an impaired credit history.
Overall, I think 118 118 Moneys checks were proportionate given the size and term of the 
loan and the value of the repayment in relation to Mr Rs monthly income. And these checks 
showed that the loan repayments were affordable. 
Ive also thought about whether 118 118 Money acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman