DRN-3621602
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) provided a poor service and 
incorrectly dealt with part of a refund for a holiday they booked but was subsequently 
cancelled.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr C booked a holiday in July 2019. They were due to travel in May 2020. Four 
separate instalment payments were made to the holiday provider from July 2019 up to 
February 2020. However, the holiday was cancelled.
But only three of the four instalments were returned to Mrs C and Mr Cs bank account. 
Mrs C and Mr C queried this. BoS located the missing instalment and advised it had been 
processed as a refund to a card number that was no longer valid. BoS initially put in place a 
temporary refund. But then realised this wasnt correct so it set up an incorrect account 
number dispute instead and the instalment was returned to the originating account (in this 
case the holiday provider). BoS awarded Mrs C and Mr C £50 for the inconvenience caused, 
and they were told to contact the holiday provider to get the remaining refund it had sent 
back. 
But Mrs C and Mr C say that BoS hasnt done enough. They say that after numerous 
attempts to contact the holiday provider they are just being ignored. They say that they are 
at their wits end and nobody is helping. As it stands, and after two years, theyre still down 
£400. So, they complained to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. The investigator agreed that the holiday 
provider was now responsible for the refund not BoS. But he recommended that BoS pay 
Mrs C and Mr C a further £100 for the inconvenience it had caused for the initial errors it 
made. 
Mrs C and Mr C disagreed. They say BoS still hasnt done enough. Theyve asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
All the payments were made from the same account. But the debit card used to make 
the first payment has expired. So, when the holiday provider attempted to return this 
specific payment to this specific card an issue arose as the card details were no 
longer valid.
BoS initially misinterpreted Mrs C and Mr Cs problem, and it provided a temporary 
refund. However, when it reviewed the issue again it realised this was the incorrect 
action, so it took the temporary refund back, and set up an incorrect account number 
dispute instead with the card provider. This meant the instalment amount of £400 
was returned to the holiday provider.
The original incorrect action and subsequent reversal caused distress for Mrs C and 
Mr C. BoS recognised this and paid Mrs C and Mr C £50 for the inconvenience 
caused. 
But, our investigator, felt that this error had caused more than the levels of frustration 
and annoyance you might reasonably expect from day-to-day life, and the impact had 
been more than just minimal such as a single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort 
or a few weeks to sort out. The investigator felt a compensation award of £150 in 
total was a fairer reflection of what happened. 
And I agree. Looking at the file, Mrs C and Mr C have been inconvenienced by BoSs 
actions and they do deserve a higher compensation award. I agree that an award of 
£150 (in total) is a fairer compensation amount for the inconvenience theyve 
suffered, caused by the error BoS has made. 
However, Mrs C and Mr C still havent been able to retrieve the missing £400. They 
tell us theyve sent numerous emails to the holiday provider but theyre being 
ignored. They cant get through to the holiday provider via phone. 
However, this issue is outside of the remit of this final decision and I wont be making 
any further comments about the issues with the holiday provider. I do note that our 
investigator has gone back to Mrs C and Mr C with some alternative solutions on how 
to possibly resolve this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Bank of Scotland plc to:
Pay a further £100 in compensation (£150 in total) for the inconvenience Mrs C and 
Mr C have suffered for the reasons Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman