DRN-2614526
The complaint
Mr G complains RAC Insurance Limited wont pay costs he thinks they should under the 
onward travel element of his roadside assistance policy.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr Gs car broke down, and he called RAC. He said they took many hours to 
arrive and couldnt fix the problem when they did. So, they took Mr Gs car to a garage, and 
his passengers got a taxi to their destination. Mr G says RAC told him due to him not having 
a valid MOT on his car, they wouldnt pay for the costs of taking his car to the garage  but 
would for his passengers onward travel. Mr G was advised to send in a receipt for the taxi. 
The fare came to £350, and he asked RAC to pay this. RAC replied and said they wouldnt 
because Mr G had no MOT, and they felt the cost of the taxi was excessive. As RAC 
wouldnt pay for the taxi, Mr G contacted us. 
When doing so, Mr G said hed been with RAC for a long time and had paid them a 
substantial amount in premiums. He added leaving elderly people with disabilities for several 
hours isnt the service hed expect from RAC. And as a result of Covid there was an 
extension for MOTs but he didnt realise that had expired four days earlier. RAC said twice 
theyd pay for onward travel, so he didnt think it was OK to then not pay for the taxi. Mr G 
also wasnt happy RAC claimed £350 for a taxi to take someone over 100 miles at night time 
was excessive, when this was the cheapest option he could find.
Because of these issues, he asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so. 
She asked RAC if theyd meet the costs of the taxi given Mr G was told on two occasions 
they would. RAC said that wouldnt be appropriate under the policy terms. Our investigator 
considered everything and explained we only had authority to consider Mr Gs complaint 
about the cost of the taxi under the onward travel element of his policy. And, having 
considered that, she found Mr Gs policy meant RAC didnt have to meet his costs for this. 
So, she didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr G didnt accept this, saying he felt theyd acted unfairly because under the terms of the 
policy he expected to be refunded the taxi costs  and they knew about the MOT issue but 
still asked for the receipt. So, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained to Mr G, the only aspect I can consider in this decision is the 
onward travel element of Mr Gs policy  which is where Mr Gs taxi claim falls under.
I think its important to explain that, generally, I can only require RAC to meet Mr Gs claim if 
Im satisfied they should do under the policy terms  or if theyve done something wrong 
leading to a loss for Mr G. While I understand Mr G will be disappointed, I dont think RAC 
have to meet his claim.
Its not in dispute Mr Gs car didnt have a valid MOT. So, Ive looked carefully at the policy 
terms. Under General Conditions which apply to all elements of Mr Gs policy, including the 
onward travel that Im considering, it says This policy does not coveryour vehicle if it is 
not holding a valid MOT.
So, it seems RAC have acted correctly in turning down the claim as the policy terms dont 
allow it.
Ive noted Mr Gs concerns about RAC implying his costs would be covered by asking for the 
receipt when they already knew about the MOT. While I think thats disappointing, I dont 
think that means itd be fair for me to require RAC to meet his costs. I say that because 
although they have misled Mr G, I cant see its resulted in any losses for him. The correct 
position for his claim was always that it shouldnt be met, and the taxi fee would always have 
been incurred.
Ive also thought about his comments that the MOT wasnt long outside of the relevant 
extension period. I appreciate his point here, but it also doesnt appear to be in dispute it was 
outside the extension period  meaning an MOT should have been in place. And, as Ive 
explained above, under the policy terms this means Mr G isnt entitled to any cover for this 
incident.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman