DRN-3670125
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car supplied to him under a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (trading as Moneybarn). 
Mr M also complains that the car was misrepresented and had the wrong tyres fitted when it 
was supplied. 
What happened
In November 2020 Mr M entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for a 
used car. The car was over six and a half years old and had travelled around 98,000 miles. 
The cash price was £18,450. Mr M says the dealer told him the car had full service history. 
Mr M says a drivetrain warning sign came on the first time he drove the car after collecting it. 
In December 2020 he took it to a manufacturers garage for a diagnostic check. Mr M says 
this confirmed multiple faults with the car. He also discovered the service history was 
incomplete. 
In February and March 2021 Mr M took the car back to the manufacturers garage for more 
investigation and repair of the fault that had caused the drivetrain warning. The dealer 
covered the cost of diagnostics and repairs up to this point. 
But Mr M says this didnt resolve all the issues. In July 2021 he took the car to a garage to 
find out why the engine management light had come on and the car was losing power. The 
garage advised Mr M the intake manifold needed to be replaced. 
Mr M made a formal complaint to Moneybarn. He says he had no option but to go ahead 
with a repair, which cost him £1,859.27. 
In September 2021, Mr M had two new tyres fitted to the car, costing £399.98. He says he 
found it very difficult to pay these repair costs as well as the monthly payments due under 
the agreement.
On 30 September 2021 Moneybarn sent a final letter of response to Mr Ms complaint. They 
said theyd seen no evidence to confirm hed been advised the car had a full service history - 
or that it had missed a service. They said they had no evidence that the dealers repairs had 
failed, and they were unable to investigate further as the problem had since been put right.  
Mr M says he continued to have problems with the car. In November 2021 he had to pay for 
a repair to the suspension. And in January 2022 the prop shaft broke whilst he was driving 
on the motorway, causing the engine to fail. 
Mr M complained to Moneybarn again, but they said theyd already issued their final 
response about the issues with the car. So, he brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She noted the dealer had paid for the 
diagnostic test and repair in March 2021. She said she didnt think the faults that occurred 
after this were present or emerging when the car was supplied, because if they had been, 
she didnt think Mr M would have been able to cover the 55,726 miles hed travelled in it.
The investigator said she hadnt seen any evidence that Mr M had been told the car had 
been fully serviced in accordance with the manufacturers recommended servicing schedule 
 and she didnt think it was reasonable for Mr M to assume it had been. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view. He said the first diagnostic test had revealed 
numerous faults, all linked and contributing to loss of power. He didnt agree that all these 
problems had been resolved by the repairs the dealer paid for. Mr M said the car had also 
been fitted with the wrong tyres, which was affecting the differential mechanism. 
Mr M said the car was beyond economical repair within two years of ownership. He didnt 
think it was reasonable for him to pay the total amount payable under the agreement, as well 
as having to buy a new engine costing £18,000. Mr M felt the cars service history was 
worthless because it wasnt carried out by reputable garages. He asked for an ombudsman 
to review his case. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M complains about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can 
consider Mr Ms complaint against Moneybarn.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  in this case Moneybarn  has a 
responsibility to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account any relevant factors. 
I consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, and mileage. 
The cash price of the car was £18,450. It was more than six and a half years old and had 
travelled 98,000 miles. I dont think a reasonable person would expect this car to be in as 
good condition as a newer car with a lower mileage. But I do still think theyd expect it to be 
in reasonable condition - and I think theyd expect it to be free of anything other than minor 
faults when it was supplied.
Engine performance problems
Mr M told us that the drivetrain warning came on very soon after he got the car. He says this 
didnt specify what was wrong  all he knew was that the engine was losing power at 70mph. 
Ive reviewed the evidence about the diagnosis and repair of this problem.  
Mr M obtained a diagnostic from a manufacturers garage on 15 December 2020. I havent 
seen a copy of the full document, but Ive seen the following extract which Moneybarn 
included in their final response to Mr Ms complaint:The vehicle has a charge air pressure too low faults stored, this could be a turbo fault, 
heavily cocked intake ports, vacuum lines leaking for the turbo actuators, pressure 
accumulator defective? We have carried out a smoke test on the intake system and there 
is a leak coming from the airbox, this is due to a non gen, poorly fitted airfilter .. this isn't 
causing the issue though.
Ive seen a copy of an estimate, dated 2 February 2021, for diagnostic and repair work that 
was carried out to the car. This says:
Replace air filter
Replace air mass meter
Replace nitrogen oxide sensor after SCR.
Ive also seen a copy of an email from the manufacturers garage to the dealer, dated 8 
March 2021, discussing problems theyd found. It says:
We have found that the intake manifold has excessive carbon build up, I have attached 2 
photos of this also. 
I would recommend removal of the intake manifold and carrying out a decoke. This 
involves cleaning the intake system and checking the swirl flaps. Whilst the manifold is 
removed we can also replace the hose which we previously noted is incorrect. There are 
also faults with the back pressure sensors which I have included on the estimate.
It is important for me to stress that further testing would be required once completing this 
work as it may eventually require a replacement manifold.
Having reviewed the photos showing excessive carbon build up in the intake manifold, 
together with the evidence from the garage recommending that it needed a decoke, Im 
satisfied there was a fault with the car. And, given how soon this came to light after Mr M 
collected the car, I find it most likely that the fault was either already present or developing 
when he got it. 
For these reasons, I dont consider the car to have been of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr M. I can see there was initially some uncertainty as to what was causing the 
problem. Ive gone on to consider whether it was fixed by the repair in March 2021.  
Ive seen a copy of the invoice dated 16 March 2021 for the following repair:
Carry out decoke  clean/remove carbon from intake manifold and inlet ports
Replace hose (whilst manifold is removed)
Replace exhaust back pressure sensors.
This invoice records the cars mileage to have been 105,973 at the time this repair was 
carried out. 
Mr M has told us he didnt have any problems for three to four months after this. But on 2 
July 2021 he complained to Moneybarn about numerous faults affecting engine 
performance. And Ive seen a copy of the invoice dated 9 July 2021, for the following work:
Fit New Inlet Manifold, top up Antifreeze and clear down DDE memory. Reset Adapted 
values and road test.
This invoice records the cars mileage to have been 121,442. Ive noted that, before carrying out the repair in March 2021, the manufacturers garage 
warned that a replacement manifold may eventually be required. But although Mr M reported 
engine performance problems within four months of the March 2021 repair, I can see the car 
had travelled more than 15,400 miles in this time. I consider this amount of mileage to be 
significantly more than an average car would travel in a year. 
Given the amount of mileage the car had covered in between these two repairs, Im not 
persuaded that the problem in July 2021 was due to the failure of the previous repair. I do 
think it was more likely that the inlet manifold needed to be replaced in July 2021 due to 
wear and tear. So, I dont find Moneybarn to be liable for the cost of that work. 
Tyres
Mr M says the wrong set of tyres had been fitted, and the car drove very differently after 
theyd been changed. He says he couldnt afford to do this immediately because hed had to 
pay other repair costs, as well as his regular monthly payments. 
Tyres are a wear and tear item, which need to be replaced periodically. The receipt dated 4 
September 2021 records the cars mileage to have been 132,281 when the two new tyres 
were fitted. Ive seen that Mr M had covered well over 34,000 miles in the car by this point, 
so Id expect the tyres to need replacement due to normal wear and tear.
I havent seen evidence from any of the garages confirming the tyres were incorrect, or that 
this was affecting the differential mechanism. So, I wouldnt expect Moneybarn to pay for 
replacing the tyres.
Suspension
Ive seen a copy of an invoice dated 5 November 2011, showing Mr M paid a total of 
£856.25 + VAT for diagnosis and repair of a problem with the cars air suspension. The 
invoice says the following repair was needed: Fit New EHC Compressor.
By this time the car would have been seven and a half years old  and the repair invoice 
showed it had covered around 143,342 miles. I do think ongoing repairs and maintenance 
are to be expected with a car of that age and mileage. As Mr M had been able to cover well 
over 45,000 miles in the car before this fault came to light, Im not persuaded that it was 
already present, or developing, when the car was supplied to him. 
So, although I appreciate this problem must have been frustrating for Mr M, I wouldnt expect 
Moneybarn to cover the cost of this repair. 
Prop shaft failure
Mr M has provided a copy of two invoices dated 1 March 2022, detailing work recommended 
and work carried out after the prop shaft failed. The first invoice says:
 Found prop shaft has failed and smashed into sump and has lost oil (requires 
replacement). Advised further stripping required to confirm if any damage has been done 
to Engine (swarth present in oil)
Customer declined engine strip at this point  authorised sump and prop shaft 
replacement.
The second invoice says:Removed engine to carry out inspection. Confirmed swarth has gone through engine and 
caused major component failure. 
Requires replacement engine.
Vehicle is not driveable.
The invoices record the mileage to have been 153,726.
I do appreciate how upsetting this must be for Mr M, and I sympathise with the situation he 
now finds himself in. But Moneybarn arent responsible for faults that werent either present, 
or developing, at the time the car was supplied to him. 
I bear in mind the fact that, by the time the prop shaft failed, the car was eight years old and 
had been driven more than 55,700 miles since Mr M got it. So, Im not persuaded that the 
prop shaft failed due to a fault that was already present or developing when he got the car. I 
find it more likely that this part failed due to wear and tear. 
I appreciate that Mr M feels he was only able to cover this amount of distance in the car 
because he was servicing the car. But as Ive said, I do think ongoing repairs and 
maintenance are to be expected with a car of that age and mileage. 
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn are liable for the cost of the repairs 
that are now needed. 
Service history
Mr M says the car had only been serviced twice before he got it, and he feels these services 
were done by cowboys. He believes the problems hes had with the car were due to lack of 
proper servicing. 
Mr M is effectively complaining that the car was misrepresented to him. For me to uphold 
this complaint Id need to be satisfied that Mr M was told a false statement of fact about the 
car, and that this led him to enter into the agreement. 
I do think theres an important distinction to be made here. If Mr M was told the car came 
with full service history, I think he could reasonably expect there to be evidence showing 
the car had been fully serviced in accordance with the manufacturers recommended 
servicing schedule. If he was told the car came with service history, I think he could expect 
there to be some evidence of servicing that had been carried out, but this may be 
incomplete. 
Mr M has provided a copy of the advert he saw for the vehicle. Ive seen that this said:
Last serviced on 23/10/2020 at 98,000 miles, Service history
Mr M says the dealer told him the car had full service history, but Ive seen no supporting 
evidence for this. Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as it is here, I have to 
consider whats most likely to have happened. In this case I find it most likely that the dealer 
told Mr M the car had service history. And I dont find that to be false because Mr M has 
told us there was some service history for this vehicle.
I appreciate Mr Ms disappointment that the servicing hadnt been carried out by a 
manufacturers garage. But Ive seen no suggestion that this was what he was promised. I dont think Mr M was told anything about the service history that was incorrect. So, Im not 
persuaded that there was any misrepresentation of the service history when the car was 
supplied to him.
I said I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. I invited both parties to send me any further 
information or comments theyd like me to consider. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Moneybarn didnt respond.
Mr M said he didnt agree with my provisional decision. Ill summarise the comments he 
made:
He was told the car had a full service history, which should have been recorded on 
the key.
Apart from the two recorded on the key, theres no evidence of service history. And 
Mr M feels faults identified in December 2020 invalidate the service on 23/10/2020.
The lifespan of the car will be affected by poor servicing. 
The tyres were changed because they were incorrect, which affected the differential. 
Mr M said BMW can support this. He said he spent £920 for four new tyres, not £400.
The car cost £18,450, Mr M paid a deposit of £4,200, the loan amount was £14,000 
but it was costing £32,000. The car had been parked on his drive since 31 January 
2022 with no engine, which will cost around £18,000 to fix.
Mr M said he feels a unilateral decision had been made without thorough consideration of 
the facts and the financial impact. He felt the finance company should be forced to reduce 
the interest they were charging him due to faults that had been identified from the first day, 
which were accepted to have been unsatisfactory.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr M for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. I want to 
reassure him that Ive given careful thought to all the information hes provided and points 
hes raised.
Mr M clearly expected the car to have full service history. But I havent seen any supporting 
evidence to show this is what the dealer promised him. Nor have I seen any supporting 
evidence showing the wrong tyres were fitted to the car. So, although I realise this isnt the 
outcome Mr M is hoping for, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional findings 
about these issues.
I explained in my provisional decision that Im satisfied that there was a fault with the car 
when it was supplied to Mr M. But I said Id seen evidence showing repairs were carried out 
at the dealers expense to fix it  most recently in March 2021. I explained that I considered it 
most likely that the problems Mr M experienced since were due to normal wear and tear. Ive 
seen no new evidence about this, so Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional 
findings. 
I do appreciate the very difficult financial situation Mr M now finds himself in. But I havent 
seen any new information to persuade me to change my provisional findings. So, although I realise how disappointing this must be for Mr M, I wont be directing Moneybarn to do 
anything more to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman