DRN-3857229
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) is refusing to refund him the amount he lost as 
the result of a scam. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr M found an advertisement for an investment opportunity on YouTube. Mr M 
completed an initial contact form and paid around £200 for a trial period. This payment was 
made using another of Mr Ms accounts with a different bank (Bank A). Bank A has since 
refunded this amount. 
Mr M was then contacted by a business called Trade Review (X). Mr M found X to be 
professional and it had positive online reviews which convinced Mr M it was legitimate. Mr M 
was also able to make small withdrawals from the investment which added to his confidence 
he was dealing with a genuine business.
X persuaded Mr M to invest more and more of his funds. But when he tried to make larger 
withdrawals, he was told he would have to make further deposits first. At this stage Mr M 
realised he had fallen victim to a scam.
Mr M made the following payments to X using his Visa debit card through the cryptocurrency 
exchange - Binance:
1. 7 June 2022 - £990
2. 7 June 2022 - £2,000
3. 9 June 2022 - £5,000
4. 9 June 2022 - £1,700
5. 13 June 2022 - £5,000
6. 13 June 2022 - £1,700
Mr M was able to withdraw £345 from the investment with X, meaning he lost a total of 
£16,045 to the scam.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. She 
said Revolut should have stepped in when Mr M made the second payment on 13 June 
2022, and that it was likely that this, and the payments that followed would have been 
prevented if it had. So, she said Revolut should pay Mr M back the amounts lost in the last 
three payments he made.
Revolut disagreed, in summary it said it had met its obligations to Mr M and didnt think it 
should be required to refund him for any of the payments he made.
As Revolut disagreed this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Recovering the payments Mr M made
As I havent suggested that Revolut refunds Mr Ms entire loss, Ive also thought about 
whether it could have recovered his payments (i.e. the first two). The only recourse for 
potential recovery of the funds for the payments made by debit card would be via the 
chargeback scheme. Revolut attempted a chargeback for the payments Mr M made to 
Binance. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr M was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr M didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, he paid a separate cryptocurrency exchange 
(Binance). This is important because Revolut was only able to process chargeback claims 
against the merchant he paid (Binance), not another party (such as X).
The service provided by Binance would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mr Ms payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Binance provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr M paid. As Binance provided 
the requested service to Mr M it is reasonable that Revoluts attempt to recover Mr Ms funds 
via the chargeback process was unsuccessful.
Should Revolut have reasonably prevented the payments Mr M made?
Mr M has accepted he authorised the payments he made to Binance, so the starting point 
here is that Mr M is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers 
(PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to 
undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
Mr M made two relatively small payments to Binance on 7 June 2022. While he had not 
made payments to Binance before Revolut didnt prohibit such payments, so I dont think the 
payee alone ought to have been an automatic concern for Revolut. I therefore dont think it 
was unreasonable that Revoluts fraud prevention systems werent triggered and that it didnt 
step in to prevent the payments being processed.
On 9 June 2022 Mr M made a further two payments to Binance of £5,000 and £1,700. Again, 
these payments individually were not for significant amounts, and I would not have expected 
the first payment on the day to have triggered Revoluts fraud prevention systems. But Mr M 
made the second payment of £1,700 within five minutes of making the first payment bringing 
the total amount in a very short space of time to £6,700. I think these payments in quick succession should have triggered Revoluts fraud prevention 
systems and Revolut should have stepped in to have a meaningful conversion with Mr M 
about the reasons he was making the payments.
Mr M has explained that he thought the investment was genuine, and I have no reason to 
believe he would have been dishonest with Revolut about the reason he was making the 
payments. So, I think that if Revolut had a meaningful conversation with Mr M at the time its 
likely he would have told Revolut he had become involved in an investment having found an 
advert on YouTube and was being asked to send money through Binance. With this 
information, and further probing, I think its likely the scam would have been uncovered by 
Revolut and Mr M would not have incurred any further losses.
I think Revolut missed an important opportunity to step in and prevent this scam from 
continuing. So, I agree with our Investigator, Revolut should refund Mr M the last three 
payments he made to Binance.
Revolut has told us that Mr Ms account was opened specifically for the purpose of making 
transfers, so it was reasonable that there were no triggers. But I think the operation of Mr Ms 
account had changed significantly since it was opened, and Revolut ought to be familiar with 
the increase in fraud and scams specifically relating to crypto over the recent years. This 
should have triggered Revoluts fraud prevention systems as explained above.
Did Mr M contribute to his loss?
I think this was a sophisticated scam and Mr M couldnt have reasonably foreseen that he 
was dealing with a scammer. Mr M was able to see balances on his trading account with X, 
and I dont think he could have reasonably known that the trading balance was likely fake or 
a simulation  unless prompted by his trusted bank.
Mr M was also able to see positive reviews for X online and was even able to make a small 
withdrawal from the investment.
Overall, I dont think Mr M contributed to his losses, so I dont suggest the overall settlement
be reduced.
Putting things right
Ive explained why I think, if Revolut Ltd had done what it reasonably ought to have done, Mr 
M would not have lost as much to this scam as he did.
Revolut Ltd should therefore pay Mr M £8,055 (total of the last three payments he made less 
the withdrawal hr was able to make). 
To compensate Mr M for having been deprived of this money, Revolut Ltd should also pay 
Mr M interest on the loss at 8% simple per year, calculated from the date of loss to the date 
of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Revolut Ltd to put things right by doing what I have 
outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman