DRN-4285213
The complaint
Mr U complains about AXA Insurance Plcs handling of his buildings insurance claim. 
All references to AXA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My decision covers events up to the date AXA issued its final response to Mr Us complaint 
in April 2023. Any reference to events following this are for the context of addressing this 
complaint only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for these reasons:
The claim was made in December 2022. But Mr U raised issues regarding the drying 
of the property around three months later, in February 2023, as it was still wet. 
Only one dehumidifier was present at the property. And when considering the size of 
the affected area and that some screed had been removed, this wasnt likely to dry 
the property in a timely manner. So, I can understand Mr Us frustration and concern 
at the slow progress. And I think AXA couldve done more here.
I can see also there was a disagreement between AXA and one of its contractors 
regarding whether some of the works were complete, but this issue appears to have 
become evident after AXAs final response. So, I havent considered this matter 
further as part of this complaint.
AXA accepted it couldve been more proactive in its handling of the complaint. Its 
accepted it delayed appointing contractors and validating the claim. And as Ive set 
out above, I think it couldve done more when addressing the initial drying at the 
property. 
The claim couldve been progressed quicker, therefore causing some avoidable 
delays, and Mr U had to regularly chase AXA for it to be progressed in its early 
stages. AXA has offered Mr U £200 compensation but considering what Ive set out 
here, I think £350 more fairly reflects the inconvenience and impact of AXAs actions.
I understand Mr U feels very strongly about what has happened and I appreciate why 
he considers I should award a significant amount of compensation. However, the role 
of this service isnt to make punitive awards and compensation awards arent linked 
to the potential value of a successful claim, so Im satisfied the award Ive set out 
above is fair and reasonable.
I acknowledge one of Mr Us main concerns relates to the loss of rental income at the 
property while it has remained uninhabitable. And I can see the policy provides cover 
for loss of rental income.
AXA said it would consider loss of rental income on production of sufficient evidence, 
such as Mr U providing accounts relating to the rental property for the same period in 
previous years. I dont think this is unreasonable as it would be for the policyholder to 
demonstrate they have a valid claim for the loss of rent in question. 
Mr U provided a list to our service he says shows upcoming bookings at the property 
- for the period covered in this complaint. Ive considered this, but it doesnt show 
confirmation of the bookings  like an invoice or online form would. And I cant see 
anything that shows Mr U has provided AXA with the information it requested  which 
as Ive set out above, I dont think was unreasonable for AXA to request in order to 
validate a potential claim..
Putting things right
To put things right AXA Insurance Plc should pay Mr U £350 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Us complaint.
To put things right I direct AXA Insurance Plcs to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman