DRN-3609714
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL)
handled her request for a refund in relation to a holiday she cancelled due to Covid-19. Mrs
D used her credit card to make a deposit for the holiday.
What happened
In November 2019, Mrs D booked a package holiday for 2 to 18 April 2020, through a
merchant who Ill refer to as S. The total cost of the holiday for Mrs D was £4,486 and she
used her AESEL credit card to make a deposit for the holiday. The invoice showed Mrs D
made a deposit of £100 but her AESEL bank statement shows Mrs D was charged £103.54 -
this was due to a non-sterling transaction fee. The rest of the cost of the holiday was paid by
bank transfer to S. The holiday was for Mrs D, her husband and their friend. Mrs D says her
friend paid for his part of the holiday himself and clarified that her complaint is in relation to
the amount she spent for her and her husband.
On 17 March 2020, Mrs D emailed S and said she wanted to cancel the holiday  Mrs D said
this was because the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) advised
against all but essential international travel. Mrs D was sent a cancellation invoice by S on
the same day. The invoice showed S were only willing to give Mrs D a partial refund rather
than the full amount. S explained that Mrs Ds booking was made up of three components:
Hotel and land arrangements for the tour  S said they were only prepared to refund 
£1,482 of the total £2,279 cost. S said the hotels were agreeing to adjust the amount 
for Mrs D to be able to travel at a later date, they hadnt cancelled Mrs Ds stay 
themselves.
International flights to and from the destination  S said the airline was only able to 
give Mrs D vouchers, rather than a full refund. Even though Mrs D wanted a refund, 
S said they wouldnt issue one and would arrange for the vouchers to be issued.
Domestic flights within the destination  S said they werent going to refund Mrs D 
the £412 that this was invoiced for because shed only be due a refund of the 
domestic flight if the airline cancelled the flight or if the ticket was a refundable fare. 
However, neither were the case here.
Mrs D didnt receive the refund of £1,482 S said they would give her. And despite several
requests over the year from 2020 to 2021, Mrs D still didnt receive the refund nor the airline
vouchers that S said theyd arrange for her and her husband. So, Mrs D raised a claim with
her insurer first. But this claim was declined.
Mrs D then contacted AESEL on 14 September 2020 and asked for her claim to be
considered under the chargeback rules. AESEL said this wasnt possible as shed raised a
claim outside of the time limits prescribed by its scheme rules. So, Mrs D raised a claim
under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) with AESEL the following day and
said she felt there had been a breach of contract as S hadnt refunded her the £1,482 nor did
she receive the airline vouchers. Mrs D said she actually wanted to claim back the full
amount of the holiday, which was £4,486 through her Section 75 claim. And that she still
hadnt received the partial refund S said theyd give her.
In December 2020, Mrs Ds husband contacted S via an online platform about getting the
partial refund. S apologised for the delay and explained they were still impacted by the
effects of Covid-19. S also confirmed Mrs D should get her refund by March 2021. But Mrs D
says she didnt get the refund by this date.
On 30 July 2021, AESEL sent their response to Mrs D about her Section 75 claim. In this,
they said they could see Mrs D had cancelled the holiday and not S. AESEL also said S
terms and conditions explained that although S didnt apply booking charges, the providers
of the services in the holiday package did. AESEL said the terms and conditions showed any
cancellation request made 30 days before or in the event of a no show would incur a
cancellation charge for the full package cost. So as Mrs D cancelled her holiday 15 days
before it was due, no refund was due under S terms and conditions. In relation to the refund
of £1,482 S said theyd give Mrs D, AESEL said this was made outside of S terms and
conditions and was therefore, not a breach of contract. AESEL also added the refund of
£1,482 was made by S as a gesture of goodwill and it didnt form part of Mrs Ds original
contract with S. Mrs D disagreed. She explained that S emails confirming the refund they
were prepared to give her along with what they told her husband via the online platform were
contractually binding.
Our Investigator looked into Mrs Ds concerns. Ultimately, she didnt think AESEL had acted
unfairly when considering Mrs Ds chargeback claim request as Mrs D had made her request
too late. In relation to Mrs Ds Section 75 claim, our Investigator said at the point Mrs D
cancelled the holiday on 17 March 2020, the services were still available to Mrs D. As S
terms and conditions said if a request was made to cancel less than 30 days before the
holiday was due to start, then no refund would be due. So, our Investigator concluded that
because Mrs D cancelled the holiday, rather than the holiday being cancelled, there had
been no breach of contract or misrepresentation. Our Investigator also felt the offer made by
S to give a partial refund and airline tickets wasnt part of Mrs Ds contract. So, she didnt
think AESEL had acted unfairly in not instructing S to do what they said theyd do.
Mrs D disagreed. In summary, she said shed sought legal advice about her claim and she
was told the offer made by S to give her a partial refund and the airline tickets became part
of her contract with them for the provision of services relating to her package holiday.
Therefore, Mrs D said she thinks AESEL could be held jointly liable for the breach of contract
for S failure to provide her with the partial refund and airline tickets. Mrs D also didnt think
S terms and conditions where it explained if a request was made to cancel less than 30
days before the holiday was to start than no refund would apply in her case because said 
she never received S terms and conditions  Mrs D only found these when searching S
website. Because of this, Mrs D didnt think S terms and conditions were applicable to her
contract with S. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Since Mrs Ds complaint has been with our service, AESEL offered Mrs D £50 compensation
for the delay in progressing her Section 75 claim as full and final settlement of her complaint.
However, I cant see Mrs D accepted this in full and final settlement of her complaint. So, Ill
consider whether I think this compensation is fair for the delay caused.
I issued a provisional decision and set out the below:
I thought it would be helpful for me to set out at this point that this decision is solely about
the actions of AESEL. Its not about S who arent party to this decision and who arent within
our services remit for complaints in relation to chargeback and Section 75. I hope this
distinction is clear.Chargeback
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant, as Mrs D does
here, AESEL (as the card issuer) can attempt a chargeback. AESEL told us Mrs D contacted
them to raise a chargeback claim on 14 September 2020  around five months after Mrs D
was due to go on holiday. AESEL said this was done outside of the timeframes that apply
under the chargeback rules, so Mrs Ds request for the claim was rejected.
I think what AESEL have said broadly seems right to me based on the information I have
about the way their scheme operates. With that said, I think there is another reason why Mrs
D should receive a full refund of what she paid for the holiday, which Ill go on to.
Section 75
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable I need to have regard to, amongst other
things, any relevant law. In this case, the relevant law is Section 75 which says that, in
certain circumstances, if Mrs D paid for goods and services, in part or whole, on her AESEL
credit card, and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, AESEL
can be held responsible.
In addition to this, I note our Investigator explained that she didnt think the Package Travel
and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTRs) applied in Mrs Ds case. This
was because the agent, S, werent based in the United Kingdom (UK). However, regardless
of their location, I think the PTRs do apply. I say this because having read The Package
Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018, Guidance for business it
explains the regulations apply to package travel contracts and linked travel arrangements
sold, or offered for sale, in the UK no matter where the seller is established. Therefore, Im
satisfied the PTRs ought to be considered in this case even though S were based outside of
the UK.
For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS)
arrangement in place. This means the creditor (AESL) must provide credit that finances a
transaction between the debtor (Mrs D) and the supplier (S).
AESEL say S acted as an intermediary and booked separate elements of the holiday on Mrs
D and her husbands behalf. Therefore, AESEL say they dont have a clear contractual link 
with the suppliers of the services booked and so Section 75 isnt applicable as the DCS
relationship was not made out.
Ive considered AESELs point and Ive also looked at Mrs Ds bank statement which shows
the payment Mrs D made using her AESEL card was directly to S. Additionally, Mrs D
booked a package holiday which is defined in the PTRs as a combination of at least two
different types of travel services for the purpose of the same trip or holiday. And the PTRs
imply certain terms into the contract  one of those terms is that the agent, in this case S, is
responsible for the delivery of all the different travel services in the package to Mrs D,
irrespective of whether those services are to be performed. So, the DCS relationship is
made out here.
Another condition necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided
by the website must have a cash price of more than £100 and up to £30,000. In this case,
Ive seen that Mrs D paid a total of £4,486 for the holiday. So as this amount is within the
limits, I think Mrs D could have a valid claim under Section 75.
So, Ive established that the necessary arrangements exist for a claim under Section 75 and
that the cash price of that service is sufficient for Section 75 to apply. Next, I need toconsider whether theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by S.
Mrs D emailed S on 17 March 2020 confirming that she wanted to cancel the holiday
because of the recent FCDO guidance which had been released advising against all but
essential travel. I can see the FCDO released this guidance on the same day Mrs D
contacted S to cancel her holiday. The guidance specifically states that consumers should
not visit the country Mrs D was travelling to unless it was for essential purposes.
Regulation 12 of the PTRs explain that in the event of an unavoidable and extraordinary
circumstances occurring at the place of destinationwhich significantly affect the carriage of
passengers to the destination, the traveller may terminate the package travel contract before
the start of the package without paying a termination feethe traveller is entitled to a full
refund of any payments made for the package but is not entitled to additional compensation.
With this in mind, at the point Mrs D contacted S to cancel the holiday, she was being
advised not to leave the UK for non-essential travel.
I think unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances would include FCDO advice not to
travel. I say this having due regard to The Competition & Markets Authoritys (CMA) open
letter to the package travel sector which sets out how suppliers should be viewing this issue
generally. They confirmed that FCDO advice against travel, or all but essential travel, to a
particular country or region amounts to compelling evidence of extraordinary and
unavoidable circumstances occurring at the holiday destination. Therefore, I think Mrs D was
able to cancel the whole package and receive a refund of the full cost of the holiday in
accordance with Regulation 12 of the PTRs. As a result of this, I think there has been a
breach of the terms implied into the contract by the PTRs by S. So, I think AESL treated Mrs
D unfairly when it declined to meet her claim under Section 75. I think Mrs D should
therefore, receive a refund of the £4,486.
Additionally, Mrs D is unhappy with how long it took AESEL to provide her with an answer to
her Section 75 claim. From looking at the notes, it seems Mrs D raised a Section 75 claim on
15 September 2020. Mrs D contacted AESEL on 28 March 2021 to let them know she still
hadnt heard from them about her claim and that it had been six months since she raised it.
AESEL responded to let her know that there was no specific timeframe for their investigation
to be completed in and that her Section 75 claim was still under review. AESEL then issued
their response to Mrs Ds Section 75 claim on 30 July 2021  in this they explained they 
werent upholding her Section 75 claim as they didnt feel there had been a breach of
contract by S. So, all in all, it took around ten months for AESEL to give Mrs D an outcome
on her Section 75 claim. AESEL recognised Mrs Ds claim was open for a length of time and
offered her £50 compensation for this. Ive thought about what AESEL have offered,
however, I think they should award more compensation. I say this because while I
appreciate AESEL told Mrs D that there was no set timeframe in which they needed to
investigate her claim, I think ten months is quite a long time to receive an answer. I can
understand it would have been frustrating for Mrs D to wait this long without any update or
explanation for why it was taking AESEL some time to provide her with a response. With that
in mind, I think AESEL should pay Mrs D £150 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
Lastly, Mrs D has also raised a point about not being given a copy of S terms and conditions
at the time. Therefore, she doesnt think they apply in her case. Mrs D has also raised the
fact that the partial refund and airline voucher promised to her by S should form part of her
original contract with S. Given Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint for other reasons, I dont find
it necessary to comment nor make a finding on these additional two points.
Putting things rightAs explained above, I find Mrs D had a valid claim under Section 75 for the cost of her
holiday. Therefore, I currently think AESEL should:
Rework Mrs Ds credit card account as though the payment of £103.54 made in 
November 2019, had been refunded on the date the Section 75 claim was originally 
declined. This means any interest, fees or charges relating to the payment from that 
date should be refunded, and any negative credit file reporting which may have been 
caused by it, removed. If a credit balance would have arisen on the account at any 
point, 8% simple interest per year* should be added to the refund, calculated from 
the date the credit balance would have arisen, to the date it would have ceased to 
exist.
Reimburse Mrs D the amounts she paid by bank transfer to S, namely:
- £1,704 paid on 9 January 2020
- £2,682 paid on 4 November 2019
Pay Mrs D 8% simple interest per year* on the reimbursed amounts above, 
calculated from the date the Section 75 claim was originally declined, to the date Mrs 
D receives the reimbursement.
Pay Mrs D £150 compensation.
*If American Express Services Europe Limited considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs D how
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
AESEL didnt respond to my provisional decision. But Mrs D did. She explained that on 21 
June 2022, she received the refund of £1,482 that S said they would pay her. Mrs D also 
said that when we relayed the £50 offer from AESEL, we didnt explain it was an offer in full 
and final settlement of her complaint. Mrs D says she believed this offer was being made for 
the delay in reviewing her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to clarify the offer of £50 AESEL said they wanted to make was for the delay in 
progressing Mrs Ds Section 75 claim. But Im sorry we didnt relay to Mrs D that they were 
offering this as full and final settlement of her complaint.
Putting things right
As Mrs D has received a refund from S of £1,482, I think its only fair that this amount is 
deducted (after interest) from the overall calculation as set out in my provisional decision. To 
confirm, I require AESEL to:
Rework Mrs Ds credit card account as though the payment of £103.54 made in 
November 2019, had been refunded on the date the Section 75 claim was originally 
declined. This means any interest, fees or charges relating to the payment from that 
date should be refunded, and any negative credit file reporting which may have been 
caused by it, removed. If a credit balance would have arisen on the account at any 
point, 8% simple interest per year* should be added to the refund, calculated from the date the credit balance would have arisen, to the date it would have ceased to 
exist.
Reimburse Mrs D the amounts she paid by bank transfer to S, namely:
-£1,704 paid on 9 January 2020
-£2,682 paid on 4 November 2019
Pay Mrs D 8% simple interest per year* on the reimbursed amounts above, 
calculated from the date the Section 75 claim was originally declined, to the date Mrs 
D receives the reimbursement. 
Then deduct £1,482 from the total amount due to be reimbursed to Mrs D.
Pay Mrs D £150 compensation.
*If American Express Services Europe Limited considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs D how
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. And I require American Express 
Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to carry out the actions as set out under the putting things 
right section of this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman