DRN-2847382
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Europa Group Limited (Europa) incorrectly cancelled his motor 
insurance policy. 
Reference to Europa includes its agents.
What happened
Mr H took out a motor insurance policy through Europa in September 2020. He was asked to 
provide evidence of his no claims discount (NCD), which he did. However, Europa said what 
hed submitted wasnt enough and requested further supporting NCD evidence. Mr H 
provided what was requested and then followed up a few days later to ask what the next 
steps were. But by the time Europa replied stating the supporting evidence provided still 
wasnt sufficient, the policy had already been cancelled.
So, Mr H complained to both Europa and this service at the same time. Europa told Mr H 
that it would reply in 6-8 weeks. Mr H didnt know what to do. He needed his car to keep 
working so he kept his car on temporary cover whilst awaiting a response to his complaint. 
Eventually he took out a policy with another insurer at a higher cost.
Europa replied to Mr H in November 2020. Europa said it should never have cancelled his 
policy. Europa apologised and refunded any premium Mr H had overpaid along with a refund 
of a telematics box fitting fee (totalling £66.12). Europa said the cancellation would not be 
recorded as enforced and that the final response letter should be shown to other insurers to 
support this. 
An investigator reviewed this complaint and initially recommended that Europa pay Mr H 
£150 in compensation for the inconvenience hed suffered. However, Mr H didnt feel this 
was enough. He provided supporting evidence of nearly £500 in what he said were 
additional costs and he raised a concern about the cancellation and how it would affect him 
with other insurers. Mr H would like a letter from the Financial Ombudsman Service stating 
that he doesnt have to declare a cancellation. 
So, the investigator revisited the complaint, and recommended that Europa pay the 
additional costs with interest plus £150 for inconvenience. The investigator suggested 
Europa provide a letter stating the cancellation was made in error. 
However, Europa doesnt agree, and its asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Europa has admitted making an error. So, I wont be making a finding in relation to this. I will 
be making a finding about the compensation thats been recommended because of this error 
and its impact on Mr H.
As a service we have a long-standing approach to awarding compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Some of the questions we ask are; 'Is it appropriate?; How did the business 
respond? and Whats been the impact of the businesses error on the complainant? 
Europa say it has done enough following its error. It says Mr H was only charged for his time 
on cover. It says its error hasnt caused Mr H a financial loss and it says theres no reason 
been given as to why Mr H required emergency cover. It says it accepts there wouldve been 
a degree of inconvenience. But Europa doesnt agree that the recommendations made are 
reasonable or proportionate.
I need to take into account what actually happened. Mr H provided everything that was 
asked of him, yet the policy still cancelled. Mr H then asked for an explanation from Europa, 
and he was told he could make a complaint. Now, I appreciate anyone can make an error 
and I understand there are processes in place to deal with complaints when accusations of 
errors are made. But to me it feels like nobody listened to Mr H, and he was just directed to 
make a complaint without anyone actually checking to see if any errors had been made in 
the first place. And not only was an error made with the documentation that was received, 
there was an 11-day delay in replying to Mr H, even when the requested documentation was 
received. The policy cancelled in this time, leaving Mr H uncertain as to what to do next.
So, Mr H had to submit a complaint and wait for Europa to deal with it. In this time Mr H was 
really struggling to get affordable insurance. He tried some of the insurance aggregator 
websites, but the cancellation meant the premium was too high. When he tried an alternative 
insurance provider his cover was restricted to social, domestic and pleasure cover only, 
because of the cancellation, and this wasnt suitable for his purposes.  So, he had to resort 
to a higher cost pay as you go policy. Over the time the complaint was with Europa this 
amounted to a cost of £198.66 for Mr H, and he has provided documentation to support this. 
I also note that the original underwriter couldnt reinstate Mr H back onto this scheme as his 
application wasnt supported. The underwriter did say it would accept him back on cover 
after the policy was cancelled. But this information doesnt seem to have been 
communicated to Mr H. So, he was left with no choice but to go with an alternative and more 
expensive insurer. And Mr H felt he was left with no choice but to pay the higher premium, 
which amounted to an additional £271.65. As such, its clear that Europas actions, or lack of 
action, had both a distressful and financial impact on Mr H.  Europa accepted this when it 
said there had been a degree of inconvenience to Mr H. But I dont think Europa has 
compensated Mr H fairly for this. 
So, looking at everything that happened, Europas error had an impact on Mr H. And I agree 
that the recommendations set out by our investigator are appropriate and are in line with 
what I wouldve asked Europa to do. So, just to clarify, Im recommending that Europa pays 
Mr H £470.31 for the alternative covers he had to put in place following Europas error. 
Without the error, Mr H wouldnt have incurred these costs. Simple interest of 8% should be 
added to this amount from the date the policy was cancelled to the date its paid. Europa 
should also pay Mr H £150 in compensation, for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
its poor service.
Mr H has also raised the issue of the cancellation marker on his record. Mr H says that when 
this first happened he was made aware by other insurers that there was a cancellation on his 
record. Mr H would like a letter from the Financial Ombudsman Service stating that he 
doesnt have to declare a cancellation to any new or potential insurers.Europa has advised that the policy cancellation will not have been recorded as having been 
enforced by the insurer. It says Mr H can use the final response letter as evidence the 
cancellation wasnt enforced. 
Its not our role to tell Mr H what he should and shouldnt say about the cancellation at his 
next renewal or if he takes out a new policy. We have no idea what question Mr H will be 
asked so we cant reassure Mr H as he would like us to. Its his responsibility to answer any 
question hes asked accurately.
However, we can make sure Europa has done enough to make things right for Mr H. And 
recording the cancellation marker as not enforced isnt enough. Europa has said very 
clearly in its final response that it shouldve accepted Mr Hs NCD proof. So, its not a case of 
the policy being cancelled and then accepted or not enforced. This was an error, and the 
policy should never have cancelled in the first place. So, Europa now need to make sure that 
this is recorded correctly. As such Europa needs to make sure that this cancellation has 
been deleted from all internal and external databases. Europa should also provide a letter to 
Mr H stating this has been actioned and completed. I appreciate that Europa has told us its 
own system has a specific way of recording the cancellation. So, Europa need to make sure 
that no matter which way its system deals with this, Mr H should not have anything 
incorrectly recorded on his record on its internal system.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Europa Group Limited to:
Pay Mr H what he paid in additional costs, a total of £470.31. 8% simple interest 
should be added to this amount from date of claim to date of settlement.
Pay £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr H has suffered.
Make sure this cancellation isnt recorded on Mr Hs record on any internal and 
external databases.
Provide a letter to Mr H confirming the cancellation isnt recorded on any internal or 
external databases. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman