DRN-4116668
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H have complained that Connells Limited didnt cancel a life insurance policy.
What happened
In 2018 Mr H and Mrs H were looking to remortgage as their fixed deal was about to end. At 
the same time the adviser at Connells reviewed their protection requirements. He said he 
could get Mr H and Mrs H a better deal on their life insurance. He did so, but their original 
policy wasnt cancelled. They only realised this in 2022.
Connells didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr H and Mrs H referred the matter here. Our 
investigator didnt find that Connells had done anything wrong. Mr H and Mrs H appealed.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine. I 
apologise for the time taken to reach this final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Connells say that the adviser told Mr H and Mrs H at the point of sale to cancel their 
old policy. Mr H and Mrs H think that the adviser said he would cancel it for them. I 
havent disregarded Mr H and Mrs Hs evidence, but Im not persuaded that the 
adviser would have said hed cancel the old policy  as he wouldnt have been able 
to cancel the direct debit. I find Connells evidence more persuasive  that the 
adviser told Mr H and Mrs H that they would need to cancel their old direct debit 
when the new policy came into force.  
It is unfortunate that Mr H and Mrs H didnt notice that they were paying for both 
policies for some years. I dont doubt they would rather have spent the money on 
other things. It will be of little comfort to them to know that in the event of a claim both 
policies would have paid out. I understand Mr H and Mrs Hs explanation for not 
noticing they were paying two direct debits. They came out at different times of the 
month and online banking was done on a mobile phone. Nevertheless, I cant say 
Connells is responsible for this.
Im sorry that my decision doesnt bring Mr H and Mrs H more welcome news, but in 
all the circumstances I dont find that Connells have done anything wrong. It follows 
that there is no basis for me to require Connells to refund the premiums paid to the 
insurer for the old policy after the new policy came into force.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman