DRN-2640971
The complaint
Ms O says American International Group UK Limited (AIG) mis-sold her a travel insurance 
policy (the policy).
All references to AIG include the appointed representative who sold the policy on its behalf.
What happened
When buying her flights for a trip abroad through a particular online travel agency, Ms O also 
bought a travel insurance policy - underwritten by AIG.
Ms Os trip was subsequently cancelled. She didnt make a claim on the policy for the cost of 
the flights; she made a claim for the cost of the accommodation. 
But, as she didnt book her accommodation via the online travel agency, her claim was 
declined. Thats because, under the policy, services and products not brought via the online 
travel agency werent insured. 
Ms O says she wasnt informed of that exclusion when taking out the policy  and if she had 
been, she wouldnt have taken it out. So, she says the policy mis-sold. Our investigator didnt 
uphold Ms Os complaint. He said shed been given sufficient information about the main 
terms of the policy at the time of sale. 
As Ms O disagrees, her complaint has been passed to me to look at everything afresh and 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. I know Ms O will be disappointed but hopefully shell 
understand my reasons when I explain why.
AIG didnt recommend the policy to Ms O; the policy was sold on a non-advised basis. But 
AIG was still required to provide her with clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
main terms of the policy at the time of sale so that she could make an informed decision 
about whether to buy it. 
AIG has provided a screenshot on the online process when selling the policy. 
I can see that Ms O was presented with two options. 
The first option was a cancellation plan. The second, which Ms O ended up buying, was a 
classed as a protection plan. It was a more expensive policy and had additional benefits, 
including trip delay, trip interruption, baggage loss and cover for emergency medical 
expenses. 
Im satisfied Ms O was presented with the main features of the policy and links were 
provided to the relevant Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and policy 
wording. 
The first page of IPID contains a prominent box which sets out side by side what is, and 
what isnt insured under the policy. Listed first on the what isnt insured side of that box is: 
products and services not booked through the online travel agency. 
So, I think this exclusion was made clear to Ms O when taking out the policy in a fair and not 
misleading way  along with the other main benefits and exclusions of the policy, and other 
key features like the price of the policy, the start and end date of the policy coverage and 
cancellation terms.  
Overall, Im satisfied AIG met its obligations when selling the policy and I dont think the 
insurance was mis-sold. 
When making this finding, Ive taken on board what Ms O says about using her electronic 
tablet to book her flights and take out the policy. And that additional documents are 
minimised into little boxes and my pop ups were blocked. I couldnt get them to unblock.
But the screenshot of the online sales journey contains a customer declaration which says 
by clicking yes (to the policy) and clicking the following button to complete my booking, I 
confirm I have received, read & accept the IPID & Policy Wording, am eligible for cover, 
consent to receive documents electronically & acknowledge you consider this product to 
meet my Demands and Needs. 
Further, after the policy was sold, AIG sent Ms O an email containing a link to the policy 
portal where she was able to review and / or download the policy documents including the 
IPID and policy terms. So, if she was unhappy with the policy not covering products and 
services not booked through the online travel agency, she couldve cancelled within the 
cooling off period. 
Ive also taken into account that Ms O says shed assumed from the title of the insurance 
and from its product placement that is was a general travel insurance and not a product 
which was only relevant to products and services bought through the online travel agency. 
However, Im not persuaded that the title of the policy  or the information about the policy 
given as part of the online sales journey - was in any way misleading. 
Ms O couldve benefitted from the policy; its just that the accommodation costs  and any 
other products and services shed arranged as part of her trip but not booked through the 
online travel agency  werent covered under the policy.
All in all, Im persuaded that AIG met its obligations when selling the policy to Ms O. And Im 
not persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint to 
conclude that the policy was mis-sold to her.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman