DRN-1320672
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Paragon Bank Plc (Paragon) didnt accept the identification 
documents she provided when she applied to open an account.
What happened
Mrs M wanted to open an account with Paragon. She applied online and was asked to 
provide two forms of identification. She provided a letter about Income Tax and a letter from 
her utility provider. But Paragon said they couldnt accept these documents because they 
didnt meet their identification criteria. So they werent able to open the account. 
Mrs M wasnt happy about this and raised a complaint with Paragon. She said shed had to 
travel a long distance to post the documents and wanted to know why Paragon hadnt 
accepted them.
Paragon didnt uphold the complaint. They said the documents provided by Mrs M werent 
on the list of specific documents which they can accept as proof of identity. So they said they 
couldnt open the account on the basis of those documents. They invited Mrs M to send 
alternative documents and confirmed the date by which she needed to do that if she wanted 
to proceed with the account opening.
Mrs M wasnt happy with Paragons response so she brought her complaint to this service. 
She said the documents shed provided met Paragons criteria. She thought they should pay 
her compensation for the inconvenience shed been caused and the expense she incurred in 
sending the documents.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he didnt think Paragon had made a mistake. 
Mrs M didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She says 
shed provided documents showing her name and address. And that she was disadvantaged 
by Paragons approach because her husbands application had been approved without him 
having to provide documents.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that its right for banks to have procedures in place to check the 
identity of their customers. As to exactly what those procedures are and how they are carried 
out, that is a matter for the bank to decide. What I need to look at here is whether Paragon 
followed their procedures correctly and fairly.
There are certain specific documents which Paragon say theyll accept as proof of identity. 
These are set out in two lists  List A and List B. List A contains the documents theyll accept 
as proof of identity. List B shows the documents theyll accept as proof of address. Mrs M 
was asked to provide one document from each list.One of the documents specified on List A is a tax notification which is valid for the current tax 
year or the previous tax year. Mrs M provided a letter which had been sent to her about rates 
of Income Tax. This isnt a tax notification. So its not one of the documents which Paragon 
say they will accept. Therefore Im satisfied they were acting within their policy when they 
said it didnt meet their criteria.
Paragon also say that the letter doesnt contain any specific information which would enable 
them to check Mrs Ms identity. I think thats a reasonable explanation for why they cant 
accept it. So I dont think it was unfair that Paragon didnt accept this document as proof of 
Mrs Ms identity.
The other document provided by Mrs M was a letter from a utility provider confirming the 
registration of her online account. This isnt a utility bill. And it isnt one of the other 
documents specified in List B. So Im satisfied that Paragon were acting in line with their 
policy when they said they couldnt accept this document as proof of Mrs Ms address.
Mrs M says her husband applied for an account successfully without having to provide 
documents. I cant comment on that here as Im only looking at Mrs Ms application. I realise 
Mrs M feels strongly about her complaint. But I think Paragon were entitled to ask for 
identification documents. And I dont find that either of the documents she provided met 
Paragons criteria.
From the information available to me, Im satisfied that Mrs M was made aware of the 
documents which Paragon would accept. And they gave her the opportunity to provide 
alternative documents before closing her application. So I dont think Paragon have acted 
unfairly here and Im not going to ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2020.
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman