DRN-3304697
The complaint
Mrs K complains about advice and service received from St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc in regard to her investments.
Mrs K is using a representative to bring this complaint. But for ease I will refer to all actions 
as being those of Mrs K.
What happened
In late 2020 Mrs K moved her investments away from St Jamess Place and complained 
about the way in which her investments had been handled. The issues raised were around 
fund selection, performance, ISA allowances and investment management approach.  
St Jamess place looked into Mrs Ks concerns but didnt uphold the complaint. Whilst 
acknowledging Mrs K was disappointed with the performance of her investments, they were 
satisfied that no errors were made.
Remaining unhappy Mrs K brought her complaint to this service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought the fund recommendations were 
suitable, any fees had been charged as agreed, and that Mrs K was made reasonably aware 
of her ISA allowance. Overall they didnt think St Jamess Place had done anything wrong.
Mrs K disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K has provided a lot of information about her complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
she feels about what happened. Ive summarised a lot of things which reflects the informal 
nature of our service and I mean no disrespect by doing so. Instead, Ive concentrated on 
what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
However I want to assure Mrs K that Ive read and considered everything that has been 
submitted. 
Also St Jamess Place and our Investigator both went into a lot of detail about what 
happened and it seems those facts arent really in dispute. So theres no need for me to 
repeat everything again here.  
There are several areas of concern about what happened. Ive looked into these as well as 
reviewing all the information provided holistically. And having done so Im satisfied 
St Jamess Place treated Mrs K fairly and reasonably for reasons I will explain. 
Mrs K has concerns about the level of risk her investments which had been agreed at 
medium. Looking at the different investments they were diversified across different markets. 
This is the type of approach I would expect to see and minimises any effect on a particular 
market across the wide spread of investments.
All of funds were rated at medium or medium low  with one exception which was a higher 
risk fund. But looking across the portfolio of investments as a whole Im happy overall it met 
the risk rating of medium. The funds also met the requirement for capital growth and the 
possibility of future income needs. 
Mrs K is unhappy with the management of her investments and provided a letter from a new 
adviser questioning, in part, why only one fund switch was made in ten years.
Firstly I think its important to say that St Jamess Place offered products from a limited 
number of companies and not all of the investment market. So there is a limit to the variety 
of investment opportunities available. And Im satisfied this was made clear. 
Also each individual investment fund is managed within itself. This means that each fund is 
monitored to maintain performance and levels of risk. So having a variety of those funds in a 
portfolio means there is usually a lesser need to switch funds around. 
I know Mrs K is disappointed with the performance of her investments overall but that 
doesnt necessarily mean any mistakes were made. Being careful not to apply hindsight, I 
think the portfolio was managed in the way that was agreed and in a way that met the 
agreed investment objectives. The lack of changes doesnt necessarily mean that 
management wasnt taking place.
For the management of her investments Mrs K was charged a fee. Her new adviser asks 
what service was being paid for? Considered what Ive said above about how the 
investments were managed Im satisfied the charges were applied fairly and reasonably and 
in-line with the agreement between Mrs K and St Jamess Place. 
Another area of concern is around Mrs K saying she wasnt advised to use her yearly ISA 
allowance. 
St Jamess Place say they made Mrs K aware of her ISA allowance on several recorded 
occasions over the years especially soon after she moved her investments to them. They 
also say the adviser said that during the annual review meetings utilising ISA allowances 
was a regular part of the conversation.  
Theres limited documentation about the ISA discussions over the years but taking 
everything into account I think, on balance, that Mrs K was made aware of her allowances. 
In response to our Investigator Mrs K asks if due to her lack of knowledge and experience, 
along with a lack of capacity for loss, St Jamess Place shouldve treated her as vulnerable. 
But looking at all the available evidence I dont think this is the case. When taking Mrs K 
onboard as a client I think St Jamess Place conducted an appropriate level of investigation 
to ascertain and agree the level of risk. Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Mrs K 
shouldve been treated as vulnerable. 
Having carefully considered all the information Im satisfied St Jamess Place treated Mrs K 
fairly and reasonably so wont be asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman