DRN-3778449
The complaint
Ms T has complained that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (Hargreaves 
Lansdown) sold US shares held in her SIPP because she hadnt completed the relevant 
form in time. Ms T thinks that it was unreasonable for Hargreaves Lansdown to have sold 
the shares and this has caused her a loss.
What happened
Ms T holds a SIPP with Hargreaves Lansdown. Ms Ts SIPP held shares in a US company. 
Ms T had opted into Hargreaves Lansdowns paperless service, meaning that they 
communicated with her by secure email.
Towards the end of September 2021 Hargreaves Lansdown sent a secure email to Ms T to 
inform her that she needed to renew her W-8Ben form. The email told Ms T that she had 
until 31 December 2021 to renew her form, and that if she didnt do so by then her shares in 
the US company would be sold.
In late November 2021 Ms T logged on to her Hargreaves Lansdown portal. Ms T firstly 
updated her address information so that it showed her new address. After Ms T had updated 
her address details, she then attempted to renew her W-8Ben form.
Hargreaves Lansdown says that its online portal displayed a message to tell Ms T that her 
attempt to update the W-8Ben form had been unsuccessful. However, Ms T has said that 
she thought she had successfully renewed the form. 
Hargreaves Lansdown sent Ms T another secure email towards the end of December 2021 
to tell her that she needed to renew her W-8Ben form. 
A further and final secure email was sent to Ms T towards the end of January 2022. This 
email told Ms T that her shares in the US company would be sold unless she renewed her 
W-8Ben form. It also said that if you have recently renewed your W-8Ben please disregard 
this message. Ms T has said that as she thought she had updated her W-8Ben form then 
she did disregard the email. 
Hargreaves Lansdown subsequently sold Ms Ts US company shares in early February 
2022 as they hadnt received an updated W-8Ben form from Ms T. The US shares were sold 
at a loss for Ms T. 
Ms T has said that Hargreaves Lansdown should have known that she had attempted to 
renew her W-8Ben form in late November 2021 and therefore they should have contacted 
her to say that her attempt had been unsuccessful. Ms T has also said that she thinks 
Hargreaves Lansdown should have been more proactive in contacting her about the 
outstanding W-8Ben form before they sold her US company shares. 
Ms T has also said that she would not have sold the US company shares at a loss, but 
would instead have held onto them until the share price had recovered. Ms T therefore 
thinks that she has suffered a financial loss as a result of Hargreaves Lansdown selling her 
US shares when they did.
Ms T complained to Hargreaves Lansdown. In their response Hargreaves Lansdown said 
that they had given Ms T sufficient warning to renew her W-8Ben form before they sold her 
US company shares, and as a result rejected her complaint.
Ms T did not accept Hargreaves Lansdowns response. So, she referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. An Investigator with the Financial Ombudsman Service 
completed a review of Ms Ts complaint. They thought that Hargreaves Lansdown had given 
Ms T sufficient warning and notice that she needed to renew her W-8Ben form, or else her 
US shares would be sold, and therefore didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms T didnt agree with the Investigators view so asked that her complaint against 
Hargreaves Lansdown be referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the Investigator.
The Terms and Conditions applying to Ms Ts SIPP say as follows in section A14:
You must sign the appropriate US Internal Revenue Service form (which we will supply on 
request) and submit it to us before we accept a trade from you for securities listed in the US. 
If you have not previously provided us with a valid form, and you already hold US securities, 
you must complete a form. If you do not submit the form before the date we specify (usually 
30 days) we reserve the right to sell US securities held in your Account. 
This meant that if Ms T didnt renew her W-8Ben form when needed, then Hargreaves 
Lansdown would sell the US shares held in her SIPP.
Ms T had opted into Hargreaves Lansdowns paperless service. This meant that Hargreaves 
Lansdown would communicate with Ms T by secure email.
Hargreaves Lansdown sent Ms T a secure email message in late September 2021 to tell her 
that she needed to renew her W-8Ben form, otherwise her US company shares would be 
sold. Therefore, Hargreaves Lansdown gave Ms T three months notice that she had to 
renew her form.
Hargreaves Lansdowns internal audit log shows that Ms T attempted to update her W-8Ben 
form through her online portal in late November 2021. However, this attempt was 
unsuccessful.  The audit log recorded this as follows: Failed to submit W-8Ben form due to 
address is not updated yet.Hargreaves Lansdown explains that this attempt failed because the form could only be 
completed when five days had expired after Ms T had updated her address details. This time 
period allowed for Hargreaves Lansdowns systems to be successfully updated with Ms Ts 
new address. 
While Ms T says she believed she had completed the form at that time, Hargreaves 
Lansdown says the process wasnt completed successfully, as recorded in their audit log. 
Hargreaves Lansdown also say that their audit log shows that the page containing the error 
message informing Ms T that her W-8BEN renewal had failed was viewed. I have seen 
Hargreaves Lansdowns audit log but I havent seen the page that Hargreaves Lansdown 
say Ms T wouldve viewed on the portal.
Ms T says she didnt receive an error message to notify her of this. But on balance I think Ms 
T wouldve understood that her attempt to renew her W-8Ben form had failed. 
But even if I could accept that Ms T didnt understand that her attempt to update the form 
had failed, this ought to have been clear when she received a further secure email from 
Hargreaves Lansdown in late December 2021. This message said: 
This is a final reminder your W-8Ben form will expire on 31 December 2021. You need to 
renew before then to continue holding and trading US shares otherwise well have to sell 
your US holdings.
Renewing is quick and easy, and your form will run for three calendar years, so wont expire 
until December 2024. If you dont renew your holding in (XXXX) as well as any other US 
holdings you have will be sold.
I think that this message clearly told Ms T that her US company shareholding would be sold 
unless she renewed her W-8Ben form. Although Ms T says that she believed that she had 
successfully updated her form a month before, I think that on reading the secure email Ms T 
wouldve understood that something had gone wrong here and the renewal of her W-8Ben 
form was still outstanding. Given that Ms T had been warned her shares would be sold if the 
form wasnt updated, I think she ought to have known she needed to take action to update 
her form. 
The expiry date of Ms Ts existing W-8Ben form was 31 December 2021. However, it is 
evident that Hargreaves Lansdown gave Ms T an extension until 28 January 2022 for the 
form to be renewed. Hargreaves Lansdown sent Ms T a final secure email in late January 
2022 to tell her of this and that her US company shareholding would be sold if Ms T didnt 
renew her W-8Ben form. 
This message said Your US shares are to be sold. You have until 28 January to renew your 
W-8Ben before we take this action. We will not send any further reminders or confirmation 
that your shares have been sold.
The message then went on to explain how Ms T could renew her W-8Ben form and then 
said: If you have recently updated your W-8Ben please disregard this message.
While I note the email told Ms T that she could disregard the message if she had recently 
completed her W-8Ben form, I dont think it was reasonable for Ms T to ignore the message 
in the circumstances. I say this because Ms T had attempted to renew her form in late 
November 2021, which was two months before this final email. I therefore dont think that Ms 
Ts attempt to submit her W-8Ben form could be described as recent. Furthermore, she had 
by this point already had an earlier message telling her that her form still needed to be 
updated. So, I think that it would be reasonable on reading this final warning to understand that the W-8Ben form renewal was still outstanding and that the US shares would be sold if it 
wasnt updated by 28 January 2022. 
Ms T has said that during the telephone calls she made in February 2022, the Hargreaves 
Lansdown representative told her that there was a known problem with the completion of the 
W-8Ben form.
I have listened carefully to the recordings of these telephone calls and I have not heard any 
evidence that the Hargreaves Lansdown representative said that there was a known 
problem with the online completion of the W-8Ben form. Instead, the representative said that 
they thought that it was likely that Ms T hadnt completed the W-8Ben form correctly, which 
is why it was still outstanding.
I note that Ms T has further said that she should have received from Hargreaves Lansdown: 
A clear, fair and not misleading communication should have advised that I needed to go 
back and submit the form I had completed.
But I think that the secure emails sent to Ms T in late December 2021 and late January 2022 
did communicate clearly that the W-8Ben form renewal was still outstanding and if this was 
not actioned then Ms Ts US shares would be sold. 
Ms T has said that in addition to sending the secure emails, Hargreaves Lansdown should 
have been proactive and telephoned her to say that the W-8Ben form was still outstanding 
before they sold her US shares. But Ms Ts preferred method of communication was by 
email as she had opted into their paperless service. As Hargreaves Lansdown had sent 
secure emails to Ms T, telling her that the W-8Ben form was outstanding and that action was 
needed or else her US shareholding would be sold, then I think that it would be 
unreasonable to expect Hargreaves Lansdown to telephone Ms T as well.
Overall, I dont think that Hargreaves Lansdown have acted unreasonably. They notified Ms 
T that she needed to renew her W-8Ben form on three occasions. Hargreaves Lansdown 
extended the expiry period of Ms Ts current W-8Ben form from the end of December 2021 
to late January 2022 to allow for a final opportunity for the form to be renewed. It was only 
after the expiry of this extended deadline that the US company shares were sold, in line with 
Hargreaves Lansdowns Terms and Conditions. It follows that I dont think Hargreaves 
Lansdown has treated Ms T unfairly. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Ts complaint against Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman