DRN-2674400
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs S are unhappy as they believe Santander UK Plc have administered their 
mortgage incorrectly. 
What happened
Mr K and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Santander in September 2005. It was 
recommended to them by an independent broker. They borrowed £55,450 - £450 of which 
was for fees.
Mr K and Mrs S have complained to Santander that they think there were errors with the 
account in the months after it was taken out. They say the balance increased and did not 
begin reducing until several months after it was taken out  so they think fees and additional 
interest have been added to the balance incorrectly by Santander. And they say this calls 
into question how the balance has been calculated throughout the life of the mortgage.
Santander said it did not think any errors had been made in administering the account or in 
the calculation of the outstanding balance.
Unhappy with this response, Mr K and Mrs S asked our service to look into their complaint.
One of our investigators considered matters but didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong. He said that the amount of borrowing appeared correct and was in line with the 
mortgage offer issued  which confirmed borrowing of £450 in respect of fees. And he 
thought the information available supported that the account had been operated correctly  
with the initial increase in the amount outstanding and the delay in the balance starting to 
reduce being due to missed payments in the first couple of months after the account was 
opened.
Mr K and Mrs S did not agree and asked for their complaint to be reviewed. As a result, it 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage offer, provided to Mr K and Mrs S at the time the mortgage 
was taken out, confirming what theyd agreed to borrow. This confirmed the borrowing was 
£55,450, of which £450 was for fees. And Ive seen account statements confirming that this 
was the amount that was owing when the mortgage started in September 2005. I havent 
seen anything that suggests additional fees were added or that the amount owing at the start 
of the mortgage was higher than was agreed. So, I think the account was set up correctly.
The mortgage account statements that Ive seen indicate that the repayments due in 
October, November and December 2005 were missed by Mr K and Mrs S  due to the direct 
debits for these being returned unpaid. There was however a manual payment in December 
2005 that did go through successfully, although this did not cover all of the payments 
missed. So, no payments were made to reduce the amount owed in the first couple of 
months, and another was missed shortly after this. 
Interest continued to accrue in those months though, in line with the mortgage agreement. 
This interest was added to the outstanding balance meaning it increased to just over 
£55,900 - higher than the amount originally advanced  by the end of November 2005. 
I understand it is this increase in the balance owing that Mr K and Mrs S believe means 
Santander has administered the account incorrectly and added fees and interest wrongly. 
But I dont agree. As Ive said, it was the contractual repayments being missed, coupled with 
contractual interest being correctly applied that caused the outstanding balance to initially 
increase. Ive not seen anything to suggest the interest applied was calculated or charged 
incorrectly.  And I cant see that Santander made any error in how the account was 
administered at that stage.
I can see in December 2005 a repayment was made as required. And the statements 
indicate the outstanding balance reduced accordingly. I havent seen anything that suggests 
payments made after that point were not correctly credited to the account. And I havent 
seen anything that leads me to think interest applied was calculated incorrectly or that the 
running account balance was wrong.
So, taking everything into account I dont think Santander incorrectly increased the balance 
of Mr K and Mrs Ss mortgage in the months after it was taken out. And I havent seen 
anything that leads me to think that the balance it has reported as owing since has been 
calculated incorrectly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman