DRN-3661201
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled their claim 
under their buildings insurance following a fire at their home. For ease of reading, Ill refer 
only to Mr B throughout my decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint for broadly the same reasons as 
our investigator. 
Mr B provided extensive information to support his complaint. Firstly, Id like to reassure him 
that Ive looked at all his evidence, but I wont comment on everything hes submitted. Ive 
taken the approach of commenting on evidence where I think it helps to explain my decision, 
while considering the complaint as a whole.
Theres no dispute that UKI didnt handle Mr Bs claim as well as he could reasonably 
expect. UKI acknowledged the avoidable delays it caused; failure to communicate fully or in 
a timely manner; poor workmanship; damage caused by contractors; outstanding repairs, 
and loss of enjoyment of his home during the 18 months leading up to this complaint. During 
that time, there was also a change of contractors which caused further delays, and Mr B was 
unhappy with the repeated visits without seeing progress. 
In recognition of the overall inconvenience and distress caused, UKI paid Mr B £800 
compensation. Our investigator recommended that UKI pay a further £700 compensation, 
which it agreed. To clarify, this would be total compensation of £1,500 in recognition of UKIs 
failure to treat Mr B fairly and the inconvenience and distress caused. Ive thought carefully 
about the compensation and I consider it reasonable in the circumstances. Thats because 
UKI will separately arrange to rectify workmanship issues and progress the claim  the 
compensation is to address the inconvenience and distress only. Therefore, Ill require UKI 
to pay a further £700 compensation by way of apology for the inconvenience and distress 
caused.
The outstanding issue, now, is that Mr B doesnt think the compensation offer is enough, and 
he doesnt think compensation alone resolves his complaint. He would like to see clear 
evidence of claim progression.
As Ive said, Im satisfied that the overall compensation is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr B would always have experienced inconvenience simply because his home was 
damaged by fire. And claims of this nature do take time. The compensation Ive required 
here is to address the additional inconvenience and distress caused which couldve been 
avoided. Its not intended to compensate Mr B for any inconvenience he experienced during 
times when UKI was carrying out necessary work to repair the damage.
While I understand Mr B wants me to require a clear way forward with his claim, thats not 
something I can do. Thats because UKI has offered to employ different contractors to rectify 
the poor workmanship and to progress the overall claim, or to pay Mr B a cash settlement so 
he can make those arrangements himself. Until he informs UKI which route hed like to take, 
its difficult for the claim to progress.
Having looked at Mr Bs objection to UKIs offer of new contractors or a cash settlement, its 
not clear which option hed prefer. He said it should be the contractors who made the 
mistakes that put matters right, but I see hes lost faith in their ability. Mr B doesnt think new 
contractors should do the work because it will necessitate starting again. And he doesnt 
think a cash settlement is appropriate because he doesnt see why he should have to make 
the arrangements.
I take his point here. But theres little UKI can do until he decides how hed like to proceed. 
Mr B would like specialist contractors to complete each element of the outstanding repairs. 
UKI explained that it would prolong work completion which I understand would be because 
of the difficulty coordinating. Even so, its for UKI to decide how to complete the work if Mr B 
chooses the option of using UKI contractors. So, in all, I think UKIs offer of new contractors 
or a cash settlement is a fair offer and should allow the claim to progress.
Ive noted Mr Bs comment that the policy terms and conditions shouldnt apply to repairs for 
damage that was of UKIs making. I dont agree. Thats because UKI has offered to put it 
right using its contractors. If Mr B chooses to take a cash settlement, theres no reason UKI 
should have to incur a higher cost than if it used its own contractors. So, while the damage 
might not be an insured event covered under the policy, Im satisfied that applying the terms 
and conditions here offers a fair and reasonable approach to covering the cost of the repairs 
in the circumstances.
Im sorry that Mr B experienced fire damage to his home and that reinstatement to a 
satisfactory standard has become a prolonged matter. However, my view is that UKI has 
made a fair and reasonable offer to put matters right, and that an additional £700 
compensation is reasonable for the additional, yet avoidable, inconvenience and distress 
caused.
I understand Mr B has outstanding issues he wants UKI to address beyond those which I 
have considered here. He didnt raise these issues sooner because hed hoped to have the 
full claim considered in one go once the repairs were completed. Unfortunately, I cant 
consider the issues which arose after, or which Mr B hadnt raised before bringing his 
complaint to this service, so hed need to raise these issues with UKI in the first instance.My final decision
Having considered all the evidence, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint and U K Insurance Limited must:
pay £700 compensation in recognition of the additional, yet avoidable, inconvenience 
and distress caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman