DRN-4276060
Complaint
Mr M has complained about personal loans Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. 
He says the loans were unaffordable and were therefore irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
L2G provided Mr M with a loan for £500 in December 2021. This loan had an APR of 770% 
and a term of 18 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £1,850.04, 
including interest, fees and charges of £1,350.04, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly 
instalments of £102.78. This loan was settled early in June 2022.
L2G then provided Mr M with a second loan for £1,000.00 in September 2022. This loan had 
an APR of 937.8% and a term of 78 weeks. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£3,700.32, including interest, fees and charges of £2,700.32, was due to be repaid in 78 
weekly instalments of £47.44. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ms complaint and eventually reached the conclusion 
that L2G ought to have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr M with loan 1 but that it 
didnt do anything wrong when providing loan 2. So he thought that Mr Ms complaint should 
be partially upheld. 
Neither party agreed with our adjudicators assessment. So the case was passed to an 
ombudsman as per the next step of our dispute resolution process. 
My provisional decision of 18 July 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 18 July 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold           
Mr Ms complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Mr Ms complaint. 
L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is L2G 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M could 
afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G said that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr B prior to 
providing him with both of his loans. It said that it also carried out credit checks. And, in its 
view, once Mr Ms committed expenditure was deducted from his income he was left with 
enough to be able to make the payments to these loans. 
I thought about what L2G said. But I was concerned that L2Gs own checks in the lead up to 
loan 1 showed that he had recent payment difficulties in the form of some missed payments 
and one account that had recently been in an arrangement to repay arrears. 
I did appreciate that Mr M repaid loan 1 well ahead of schedule and the credit search carried 
out appeared to show that he didnt miss any payments to other credit in the period between 
loans 1 and 2. But the credit search also showed that Mr M took out loans elsewhere. 
And not only was loan 2 for a larger amount than loan 1, it was also taken not too long after 
loan 1 had been repaid. Furthermore, L2Gs checks appeared to indicate that it wasnt 
confident in the amount Mr M declared for his income either. 
All of this led me to think that L2G needed to take steps to verify Mr Ms actual monthly 
expenditure. As I couldnt see that this L2G did take further steps to verify Mr Ms 
expenditure, I didnt think that the checks it carried out before providing Mr M with loan 2 
were reasonable and proportionate. 
Mr M provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for both 
of his loans. I accepted that different checks might show different things. And just because 
something showed up in the information Mr M provided, it didnt mean it would have shown 
up in any checks L2G might have carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from L2G showing what this information would have 
shown, I thought that it was perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place 
considerable weight on what this information said as an indication of what Mr Ms financial 
circumstances were more likely than not to have been at the time. 
I also thought it important to note that L2G was required to establish whether Mr M could 
sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on 
a strict pounds and pence basis might have been an indication that a consumer could 
sustainably make the repayments. 
But it didnt automatically follow that this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to 
borrow further in order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make 
their repayments if it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. 
I carefully considered the information available in light of all of this.
The information provided showed that the reason for Mr Ms indebtedness and apparent 
inability to manage his money was because he was spending significant amounts of money 
gambling. And Mr Ms ability to make the repayments to his loans would in large part be 
dependent on his success as a gambler. Given this, it was apparent to me that Mr M was 
unlikely to have been able to repay these loans without borrowing further or experiencing 
financial difficulty. As this was the case, I thought that Mr Ms existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to these loans, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
like than not have shown L2G that it shouldnt have provided these loans to Mr M. 
As L2G provided Mr M with these loans, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that 
it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. And this left me intending to uphold the 
complaint. 
I then set out a method of putting things right which I thought addressed L2Gs failings and 
Mr Ms resulting loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M confirmed that he agreed with my provisional decision and that he had nothing further 
to add.
L2G confirmed receiving my provisional decision. It said that it had nothing further to add 
and that it would await my final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 2 in my 
provisional decision of 18 July 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the 
parties to consider, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. 
So Im still upholding Mr Ms complaint about loan 2. And I remain satisfied that L2G needs 
to put things right for loan 2 in the same way that it has already agreed to do so for loan 1. 
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable for L2G to put 
things right for Mr M by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr M paid on his loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr M to the date of settlement
removing any and all adverse information it recorded about these loans from Mr Ms 
credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give           
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 18 July 2023, Im 
upholding Mr Ms complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman