DRN-3204793
The complaint
Ms R complains about Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) who declined her 
claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms R contacted Acromas as she could smell damp coming from a cupboard. She noticed 
that the cupboard had swollen and thought there was a leak. Acromas accepted the claim 
and sent an engineer to investigate further. 
The engineer checked the waste pipe, the tap and overflow and found no leak. The plinth 
was removed for further inspection and the area was dry and had no sign of a leak. The 
engineer noted that there had been previous water damage and that there was a small gap 
between the top of the unit and underside of the worktop, which couldve allowed water 
ingress. 
Acromas told Ms R that as the water damage had occurred over a long period of time and 
not because of a leak, this fell outside of the scope of her home insurance policy. So, it was 
unable to help and declined Ms Rs claim. 
Ms R was unhappy and raised a complaint as she said that her plumber had found the leak 
and repaired it. Also, that the Acromas engineer didnt replace her plinth. In its final 
response, Acromas maintained that the claim would be declined as it said there was no leak 
and Ms Rs policy didnt provide cover for gradual wear and tear. It apologised for the plinth 
not being replaced and said that it would return to replace the plinth. 
Ms R remained unhappy and referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that Acromas 
provided evidence that showed that the area was dry and that there was no leak. She was 
satisfied that the damage had occurred gradually, and this wasnt covered by the policy. She 
confirmed that Acromas would be willing to replace the plinth which was reasonable. But 
there was nothing further she could ask Acromas to do. 
Acromas accepted the view, Ms R did not. Ms R requested a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. My findings are broadly the same as our 
investigator, which I expect Ms R will be disappointed with, but I will explain why I think this 
is fair.  
Ms R had a home insurance policy with Acromas. It should be noted that the policys 
overriding principle would be to put Ms R back into the position she would have been had an 
insured peril not happened. The policy specifically does not provide cover for gradual 
damage or wear and tear: This policy does not insure the following: 11. Loss or damage 
arising from: gradual causes, wear and tear, corrosion, deterioration or similar causes, wet or 
dry rot.
The main issue with this complaint is whether there had been a leak and whether this 
insured peril had caused damage to Ms Rs property. Both parties accept that Ms R reported 
that she could smell damp and saw damage to her cupboard. She reported this to Acromas, 
and I can see that Acromas correctly sent an engineer to carry out further investigations, 
which I think was fair and reasonable. 
That engineer complied a report and the report concluded that there was no leak present 
and the area was dry. That there had been previous water damage, but this previous water 
damage had occurred gradually and not because of a one-off incident. Because of this, 
Acromas were unable to help and declined the claim. 
Ms R said that she had to get a plumber in (which she had to pay for) and that plumber fixed 
the leak. Ms R was asked to provide further evidence (such as a report from her plumber) in 
support of her complaint. No further evidence was received. 
In the circumstances, the only evidence that can be considered to come from an expert, is 
from the engineer who came to investigate the leak. Given the conclusion that he reached, 
and having reviewed the photos of the area, I am satisfied that the area did not show signs 
of a leak and that there was no evidence of any water damage showing. Consequently, it 
would be unreasonable of me to conclude that there was an escape of water and I cant 
agree that Acromas were unfair to decline the claim for this reason. 
Further as previously mentioned, Ms Rs policy does not provide cover for damage that has 
happened gradually. Ms R hasnt provided any expert evidence that is contrary to Acromas 
engineer that there had been previous water damage that had happened gradually. In the 
circumstances, as the damage falls outside the policy terms, I dont agree that Acromas 
were unreasonable to decline the claim for this reason also. 
Finally, Ms R said that Acromas hadnt replaced a plinth that its engineer removed. I have 
asked Acromas why the plinth hadnt been replaced and it said it had contacted Ms R and 
made two offers one for it to replace the plinth and the other offer of £200 for Ms R to 
replace the plinth herself. Acromas said that both offers were rejected by Ms R. If Ms R now 
wishes for Acromas to replace the plinth or wishes to accept the offer of £200 for her to 
replace the plinth, then it is for Ms R to contact Acromas to arrange this.
Accordingly, whilst I understand the disappointment Ms R is likely to have with my findings, I 
wont be asking Acromas to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I wont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman