DRN-4177290
Complaint
Ms R has complained about guarantor loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as George 
Banco.com) provided to her. She says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
George Banco initially provided Ms R with a guarantor loan for £3,000.00 in January 2018. 
This loan had an APR of 61.84% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount 
to be repaid of £5,785.92, including interest, fees and charges of £2,785.92, was due to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just over £160. This loan was repaid early with some of 
the funds from loan 2.
Ms R was then provided with a second guarantor loan for £4,500.00 in August 2018. 
£2,809.87 went towards settling the outstanding balance on loan 1. This loan had an APR of 
49.7% and a term of 60 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£10,653.60, including interest, fees and charges of £6,153.60, was due to be repaid in 60 
monthly instalments of just under £180. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Rs complaint and she thought that George Banco 
hadnt done anything wrong when providing loan 1, but didnt act fairly and reasonably when 
providing loan 2, as loan 2 was provided in circumstances where it ought to have realised it 
was unaffordable. So she thought that Ms Rs complaint should be partially upheld. Ms R 
didnt disagree with out investigator. But George Banco did disagree and so an ombudsman 
was asked to consider the case.
As the parties are in agreement regarding the outcome on loan 1, this decision is looking 
solely at whether George Banco acted fairly and reasonably when providing loan 2 to Ms R.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Rs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Ms Rs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
George Banco needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is George Banco needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Ms R could afford to repay any credit it provided. The fact that George Banco may also have 
been able to seek payments from a guarantor did not alter or dilute this obligation in any 
way.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information George Banco has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Ms R was already 
significantly indebted and had taken out other loans in the lead up to this application.
Furthermore, George Bancos own income and expenditure assessment, which was 
calculated with the use of estimated expenditure in circumstances where Ms Rs existing 
indebtedness suggested she fell outside the profile of the average borrower, indicated that 
Ms R would have little left over after the monthly payments for loan 2. 
Ive also considered what George Banco has said about some of the funds for loan 2 being 
for consolidation. However, its unclear to me how or what was going to be consolidated and 
more crucially how this loan, which was on such disadvantageous terms, was going to 
improve Ms Rs outgoings going forward. 
I say this while particularly mindful that loan 1 was purportedly taken for consolidation and 
yet Mr R returned for further borrowing a mere matter of months later. I think it was 
unreasonable for George Banco to take it at face value that the funds would be used in this 
way given what had happened previously.
 
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Ms R has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time. And while its possible Ms Rs 
troubles reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of 
these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible 
arguments from George Banco, Ive been persuaded to accept Ms Rs version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Ms Rs existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan 2, without borrowing further or suffering 
significant adverse consequences. And Im therefore satisfied that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more like than not have shown George Banco that it shouldnt 
have provided loan 2 to Ms R. 
As George Banco provided Ms R with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied that it 
didnt act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms R ended up paying interest, fees and charges on loan 2 which she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Ms R lost out because of what George Banco did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what George Banco needs to do to put things right for  Ms R
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that George Banco should put things right for 
Ms R by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Ms R actually paid on loan 2;adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded interest payments from the 
date they were made by Ms R to the date of settlement;
removing any and all adverse information it may have recorded on Ms Rs credit file 
as a result of loan 2. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest. George 
Banco must give Ms R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Rs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman