DRN-2163836
The complaint
Miss J says Black Horse Limited has not fairly compensated her for the mis-sale of PPI 
policies.
What happened
Between 2001 and 2004 Miss J took out five loans with Black Horse. Miss J was sold PPI 
policies with the first four of these.
The fourth loan taken in January 2004 was a joint loan, the other four loans were taken out 
in Miss Js sole name.
Miss J complained to Black Horse about the sale of the PPI policies. In July 2019 Black 
Horse wrote to Miss J to say it had upheld her complaints. 
The letter went on to detail how it had calculated the compensation Miss J was due. In total 
Black Horse offered Miss J £2,740.54 net of tax, my understanding is Black Horse sent      
Miss J a cheque for this amount. 
Black Horse also explained that for loan four only it had paid half the compensation from the 
mis-sold PPI to the joint borrower.
Miss J remained unhappy with the amount offered by Black Horse.
Miss J says the fourth loan should have been set up in her name only with her friend as a 
guarantor and not a joint borrower.
 
Miss J says she tried to claim on the PPI in 2004 but found the PPI did not cover psychiatric 
conditions and her claim was declined.
Following this Miss Js health declined and she got into arrears with the loan which led to her 
receiving a county court judgement.
An adjudicator from this service found the compensation paid by Black Horse was fair.
Miss J disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So I wont 
look into how the PPI policies came to be sold to Miss J.
Instead, in this decision I am looking to see if the compensation paid by Black Horse is fair 
and calculated the way Id expect it to have been calculated.
When a PPI policy is mis-sold, we would expect the business to return the consumer (as far 
as is possible) to the position theyd be in if the PPI had not been sold.
That would usually involve the business refunding all the cost of the PPI and also any 
interest charged because of the PPI. Wed also expect the business to pay compensatory 
interest calculated at 8% simple for the time the consumer has been out of pocket. 
In this case I can see Black Horse has refunded all the premiums paid by Miss J. I can also 
see Blackhorse has calculated and refunded the extra interest Miss J paid because the PPI 
was added to the loans.
The five loans were in a chain. So each successive loan was higher than the last and was 
partly used to repay the previous loan early. 
The first four PPI policies were funded by single premiums which were added to the loans. 
When the loans were repaid early the insurer rebated some of the PPI premium. But the 
rebates were not enough to fully repay that part of the loans used to fund the PPI premiums. 
This meant that part of each single premium PPI was carried over to the following loan. This 
is called residual PPI and Id expect to see a business calculate and refund the cost of any 
residual PPI. Looking at the way Black Horse calculated Miss Js compensation I can see 
that it did this.
I also note that Black Horse added compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple for the 
time Miss J has been out of pocket.
So I am satisfied Black Horse has calculated the compensation in the way Id expect it to.
Miss J is unhappy that Black Horse offered half the compensation from the PPI sold with 
loan four to the joint borrower. She says the joint borrower was in fact only the guarantor.
Ive seen a copy of the original loan agreement for loan four. I can see it shows Miss J as the 
first borrower and the third party under the heading joint borrower. Both parties have 
signed the agreement. I cant know what was said in the meeting when the loan was set up. 
But in my view the agreement is clear that the third party was a joint borrower and not a 
guarantor. As a joint borrower the third party is entitled to half the compensation due from 
the PPI sold with the joint loan. So I dont think Black Horse has acted unfairly in doing this.
Miss J made a disability claim in 2004, but the claim was declined because the policy 
excluded claims in relation to mental disorders including stress and stress related 
conditions. Miss J says this caused her to get into arrears with the loan.
One of the reasons PPI was often mis-sold was because the policies contained  exclusions 
similar to the one which meant Miss Js claim was declined. And this is why Miss Js 
complaint that the policies were mis-sold has been upheld and why Black Horse has agreed 
to compensate her for the mis-sale. 
If Miss J had been made fully aware of the exclusion at the time the policy was sold she 
would either have declined the policy altogether or agreed to buy it in the knowledge that she 
couldnt make a disability claim for stress or stress related disorders. Either way she would 
not have been able to make the claim. So I dont think it would be fair for me to award 
additional compensation because of the declined claim.
Miss J has told us she got into financial difficulties which led to her receiving a county court 
judgement and experiencing more stress which affected her health. I could make an 
additional against Black Horse if I thought that the sale of the PPI was the main cause of the 
financial difficulties.But looking at the agreements I can see that the cost of the PPI was a relatively small part of 
the overall loan repayments. For example on loan one the overall loan repayment was 
£61.62 with the PPI responsible for only £9.67. And for loan two the overall loan repayment 
was £99.56 with  the PPI being £13.07.
So I dont think I can fairly say the PPI caused Miss J to experience financial difficulties. 
Even if no PPI had been sold to Miss J, I think its likely she would still have encountered the 
same difficulties. 
I note Miss J feels Black Horse did not treat her fairly when she got into financial difficulties. 
She says Black Horse harassed her and this made her health worse. Ive not looked at this 
aspect of her complaint in this decision as it only deals with matters related to the PPI and 
the compensation offered by Black Horse. 
If Miss J feels that Black Horse did not treat her fairly when she fell behind with her loan then 
that would be a separate complaint.
In summary I am satisfied Black Horse has calculated the compensation for the mis-sold PPI 
policies fairly and in the way Id expect. I think Black Horse was correct to split the 
compensation for loan four between Miss J and the joint borrower. I dont make any 
additional award for the declined claim because the claim seems to have been declined 
according to the policy exclusions and Miss J has been fairly compensated for the mis-sale 
of the policy. And I dont think I can fairly say the PPI sales caused Miss J to fall into financial 
difficulty.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman