DRN-4141593
The complaint
X complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) wouldnt continue to insure them when 
they changed the address on their motor insurance policy.
What happened
X had a motor insurance policy with Ageas, which was taken out through a broker.
They moved home and asked Ageas, via their broker, to update its records.
The new house address hadnt been registered yet, so Ageas said it couldnt assess the 
area as being one it could offer car insurance in.
It cancelled Xs policy and recorded that X had cancelled it. A pro-rata refund was made by 
Ageas.
X wasnt happy that Ageas couldnt continue the policy and they complained.
Ageas didnt uphold the complaint. It said it could take a few months to update its database 
and it wasnt able to offer cover in the meantime.
X remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. They say they had to take 
out a more expensive policy and had been caused distress. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt uphold it. She said she thought Ageas had acted fairly. 
X didnt agree with the view and asked that their complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Xs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ageas has explained why it wasnt able to offer X cover at the new address. The postcode 
hadnt been registered, which is usually a short process, but insurance companies then need 
to assess the area for suitability and to develop a pricing structure it can apply to customer 
premiums.
It said this might take a few months to complete this because its underwriters needed to 
gather data on the area, which might include claims, and this data takes time to prepare and 
calculate. 
I dont think its unfair of Ageas to need some time to carry this process out and I cant 
reasonably require it to provide insurance for a risk it hasnt been able to fully assess.
X commented that some insurers clearly were able to offer cover when Ageas wasnt. This is 
correct  different insurers will have different processes about how they assess risks, which 
in this case mean that Ageas could not offer cover but that other insurers can. X is free to 
exercise their own choice about where they source their cover from, but as I say above, I 
cant force a company to offer cover.
I can appreciate X found this interruption in cover unwelcome, as it meant they had to source 
cover elsewhere at a higher price. 
Having read the file, Xs broker wasnt able to provide a competitive alternative quotation, so 
X felt forced to buy cover elsewhere. 
But as I said above, I dont think thats the fault of Ageas.
I can also see Ageas recorded the cancellation of the policy as Xs meaning they dont need 
to disclose it to other insurers. It also waived charges and fees. I think Ageas actions here 
are fair and reasonable, so Im not going to ask it to do more.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman