DRN-2400584
The complaint
Mrs M is complaining that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) hasnt settled a claim she 
made for damage caused by a water leak fairly.
What happened
Mrs M contacted Fairmead at the beginning of June 2020 to make a claim for water damage. 
The shower in her bathroom had leaked and the water had damaged both the bathroom and 
the kitchen below. Mrs M also explained that when moving her table out of the way it had 
been dropped and this had caused additional damage to her kitchen floor tiles  which had 
already been damaged by the water.
A plumber visited Mrs M and thought the problem was down to failed grout and/or sealant 
around the shower. He fixed this  but a little while later Mrs M realised the leak was still 
happening. On his second visit the plumber found that the waste trap in the shower had 
failed and this was the main cause of the leak, not the grouting.
Fairmead agreed to meet the claim in part. But it said it wouldnt meet the cost of the floor 
tiling in the kitchen because this had been poorly laid  and also that there was a lot of flex in 
the floor, which suggested the sub-floor wasnt strong enough for the tiling used. It refused to 
consider a claim for accidental damage (caused by the dropped table) for the same reason.
Mrs M is very unhappy about this, and also with the amount she received as a cash 
settlement for the rest of the remedial work. She complained but Fairmead didnt change its 
stance, so she asked us to look at her complaint.
Our investigator thought Fairmead had done enough. He said Fairmead had based its 
settlement on the amount quoted for repairs  although it had then deducted the excess Mrs 
Ms policy required her to pay. And he thought it reasonable for Fairmead to refuse the claim 
for the kitchen floor given the comments made about it by the surveyor who assessed it.
Mrs E remains unhappy about this so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise that isnt what Mrs M wants to hear, but I will 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
I accept that Fairmead initially said it wouldnt meet Mrs Ms claim at all. That was because it 
thought the leak had been caused by failed sealant around the shower  as did Mrs Ms 
plumber. I think that was reasonable  Mrs Ms policy  like many others  doesnt cover her 
for damage thats built up gradually that she should reasonably have been able to prevent. I 
think its something Mrs M should have been aware of as perished sealant is easy to spot, 
and Id expect her to have had this replaced as part of normal maintenance. However, when 
Mrs Ms plumber re-visited and discovered a failed waste pipe, Fairmead accepted the claim 
and had the damage assessed. Thats what Id expect it to do.
Fairmead assessed the cost of repairs  and when Mrs M pointed out some discrepancies it 
made some changes in her favour. It also said that if she could provide any evidence that 
the materials shed used originally were more expensive than the allowances it had used  
the bathroom tiles for example  it would re-visit the settlement figure. That seems fair to me.
Fairmead did, however, say it wouldnt meet the claim for the kitchen floor tiles. It said that 
was because it didnt have to meet a claim where the main cause of the damage was wear 
and tear or poor workmanship. The surveyor it sent to assess the damage reported that he 
didnt think the sub-floor was strong enough to support the tiles, and that theyd been poorly 
laid. He said there was an amount of flex in the whole floor that would have caused the tiling 
and grout to crack and this was the main cause of the damage to the tiles rather than any 
water. Ive looked carefully at the photos he supplied and they do show tiles that appear to 
have been poorly fixed  some of them look like theyve been laid using a dot and dab 
technique. That means some parts of the tile arent supported at all and would likely crack 
under normal use. I think its reasonable for Fairmead to rely on this report when deciding 
whether to meet the claim  and the photos do seem to bear out the surveyors comments.
I think this argument applies to the claim for accidental damage caused by dropping the 
table, too. Poorly laid and partly unsupported tiling would be much more likely to crack if 
something was dropped, so I think its fair for Fairmead to conclude that its the underlying 
weakness thats the main cause of the damage. 
Taking everything into account Im unable to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman