DRN-1610121
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance renewal for 
her buildings and contents insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss C received a renewal quote from Triton to renew her buildings and contents insurance 
policy in April 2019. To ensure her policy remained in force, Miss C paid the full amount to 
Triton. The amount paid was £277.89.
In September 2019 Miss C received a letter from the insurers. The letter explained to her 
that the insurers had stopped providing Miss Cs insurance from the renewal date in
April 2019 and no insurance policy was in force. The letter told Miss C to get in touch with 
Triton. She tried to do this, and Miss C also took out alternative insurance. Miss C was 
concerned her money had been taken fraudulently and she wanted it refunded.
Miss C had sporadic contact with Triton, but she never received her money back. So, she 
raised a complaint about Triton through our service.
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Miss C. She asked Triton to refund the premium of £277.89, pay 
interest on that amount and pay Miss C £100 compensation for the upset the matter had 
caused her.
While the case was being investigated by our service, Miss C did receive her premium back 
from Triton. But she still felt that she was entitled to compensation. Our investigator looked 
at the complaint again and decided that Triton should pay Miss C £100 for the upset shed 
been caused.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Miss C has provided. I find her 
information plausible and persuasive.
Miss C paid Triton to ensure her policy remained active. And, once she was aware she didnt 
have any insurance cover in force, she made sure she sought cover immediately.
Miss Cs original insurers cancelled their agreement with Triton in January 2019. 
Unfortunately, Triton havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide Miss C with an explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton shouldnt 
have offered Miss C any insurance cover with the original insurer. And they should have 
refunded the money Miss C paid to them.
Given this, Im glad that Miss C received her full refund from Triton. But it took her several 
months to get this, and numerous phone calls and emails to Triton. Hardly any of her phone 
calls were returned and her emails were mainly unanswered. Because of this upset, its 
reasonable for Triton to pay Miss C £100 compensation. I think this amount fairly recognises 
the inconvenience and upset caused in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Miss C £100 compensation for the upset shes been caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman