DRN-2400692
The complaint
Mr S complains Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) incorrectly re-debited his credit card 
account following a chargeback request. 
What happened
Mr S says he purchased goods using his Vanquis credit card, but the goods never arrived. 
Mr S arranged for a chargeback with Vanquis and his credit card account was re-credited 
with the monies. Mr S says Vanquis then debited his credit card as they claimed they were 
provided with evidence from the merchant that the goods were delivered and signed for. Mr 
S Says the receipt of goods provided by the merchant evidencing this, wasnt with his 
signature and he has never received the goods. Mr S wants the refund to be honoured.
Vanquis says the courier company have provided evidence of the address the goods were 
delivered to along with a signature of receipt. Vanquis have said they do not hold a copy of 
Mr Ss signature as his application for their credit card was made electronically. Vanquis are 
satisfied they have acted correctly when debiting back the chargeback. 
Mr S was unhappy with Vanquis response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. The 
investigator felt the evidence provided by Vanquis supports their final response to Mr S that 
the goods were both delivered to the correct address and signed for.
Mr S wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator but for slightly 
different reasons and I will explain how I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would be upsetting for Mr S to have ordered and paid for goods and 
these not arrive. Mr S says he ordered goods from a mail order company and when these 
didnt arrive Mr S contacted Vanquis to arrange for a chargeback, which was initiated. The 
merchant challenged the chargeback and provided Vanquis with evidence to show the 
goods had been delivered to Mr Ss address and signed for. Mr S says he didnt receive the 
goods and the signature on the receipt wasnt his and this is central to his complaint.
Mr S is unhappy that Vanquis didnt investigate the matter thoroughly regarding the 
signature on the delivery document and the investigator at this service had also simply 
accepted the signature was his. What is important to stress here is our role in this complaint 
is to decide whether Vanquis acted correctly and in line with the rules of the chargeback 
scheme. So, when looking into this complaint I can only consider if Vanquis have acted fairly 
and in line with our expectations when they undertook the chargeback for Mr S. 
It is worth mentioning chargebacks are a voluntary scheme, and while we would expect 
Vanquis to attempt to make a chargeback if they felt it would be successful, it is just that, a 
voluntary arrangement. In this case Vanquis did attempt the chargeback but were 
challenged by the merchant, who provided documents to show the goods had been 
delivered to Mr Ss address and signed for. 
While I understand that Mr S says this wasnt his signature on the receipt of the goods 
delivered, my role is to consider whether or not Vanquis have been reasonable when 
deciding to accept the chargeback challenge by the merchant. In this case I have also seen 
the tracking information and receipt from the courier company, and it shows the goods were 
delivered to Mr Ss address and someone had signed for them. On balance, given the weight 
of this evidence provided to Vanquis, I am satisfied they have carried out their 
responsibilities here under the chargeback scheme and acted reasonably and fairly when 
accepting the merchants challenge to the chargeback. I should say, Vanquis are not obliged 
to take any further action once the merchant  has provided a credible challenge to the 
chargeback and from the information I have seen, I am satisfied Vanquis acted reasonably 
when challenged by the merchant. I am satisfied, for the reasons given before, Vanquis have 
carried out their responsibilities here and have tried to help Mr S through the chargeback 
process. 
While I understand Mr S says the signature wasnt his, that is a matter of dispute between 
him and the merchant and courier company and he is free to pursue this if he so wishes. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, but I will not be asking anymore of 
Vanquis here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman