DRN-2455402
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax changed the address it 
held on its system for them without consent. And sent text messages about their accounts to 
another family member in error.  
Mr and Mrs H are represented in this complaint by their daughter Ms H who has also 
complained about the way in which Halifax dealt with the complaint. 
To resolve the complaint Ms H would like Halifax to admit it made mistakes with her parents 
accounts and that it didnt handle the complaint properly.  
What happened
Ms H contacted Halifax on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf in April 2020. She explained that her 
parents had always lived at an address with the postcode ending **OQF and had always 
previously received statements at this address. But that they had not received a statement 
for some time. Ms H said her parents were concerned about the money in their account and 
they had been unable to repay friends who had been getting their shopping for them.
In addition, Ms H says that Halifax has sent text messages to another family member 
relating to her parents account. She says that Halifax should never have had this number on 
Mr and Mrs Hs records. She is concerned that Halifax may have made a mistake by using a 
telephone number from another account held with it in the family members name. 
Halifax said its records show that it has always held and address ending **2QX for Mrs H. 
But that it has never sent statements to that address. It explained that the address it holds 
for Mr H was the residential address Ms H had said her parents lived at. And as Mr H was 
the lead name on the accounts, this is where statements have always been sent. But it also 
explained that statements are not sent in the months where there is no outgoing activity on 
the account. And that the mobile number text messages were sent to had been on its 
records for Mr and Mrs Hs account since 2012.  
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. But he didnt uphold it. He found that the 
details held on Halifaxs records pertaining to Mr and Mrs Hs addresses had not been 
changed. And  on balance, it was most likely that Mr or Mrs H had provided the other family 
members mobile number as a contact number some years ago. He was also satisfied that 
statements had been sent to the correct address when there had been some out-going 
activity on the account. 
Ms H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the case afresh. She said the 
investigators comments contradicted some of the information she had provided when they 
had spoken on the phone. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I want to reassure Ms H that this includes 
reviewing all the correspondence she has sent us and listening to the telephone call 
between her and our investigator on 29 September 2020. 
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator. But before I 
explain further why this is the case, its important for me to note that I recognise Ms Hs 
strength of feeling about this matter. Shes provided detailed submissions in respect of the 
complaint. So, I hope Ms H wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented and decide if I think Halifax has made a mistake. And, if so, whether 
an award to redress any financial loss and/or material distress and inconvenience caused is 
warranted. 
Here, I understand the crux of the complaint to be that Mr and Mrs H stopped receiving 
statements and Ms H believes this is because Halifax changed the address on                            
Mr and Mrs Hs account records without permission. And that text messages about                      
Mr and Mrs Hs account were sent to another family member.  
So, Ive firstly considered whether Halifax changed Mr and Mrs Hs address on its records. In 
this respect, Halifax is unable to provide the account opening records as Mr and Mrs Hs 
accounts as these were opened many years ago. However, it has provided its computer 
records from 2011. And it has also provided copy statements for more recent years.   
Ive looked at these carefully and Im satisfied that the address it holds for Mrs H is the 
address ending ***2QX. Furthermore, Im satisfied that Ms H confirmed that this is the 
address Ms H says Mrs H used when she opened to accounts during the call with our 
investigator. The records also show Halifax has always held an address ending ***OQF for 
Mr H  the address Ms H has confirmed is her parents residential address. 
I can see that Ms H has said that Halifax told Mrs H in April 2020 that the addresses may 
have got mixed up due to the merger with the Lloyds Banking Group. And I dont doubt what    
Ms H has told us her mother was told is correct. But I havent seen that Halifax said this in 
the formal response to the complaint. So, I think its likely that the complaint handler was 
voicing this as a possibility as to why different addresses were held  rather than confirming 
that the merger was the reason. As mentioned above, Halifax has since explained that it has 
always held different addresses for Mr and Mrs H. Overall, I dont think Halifax has made 
any mistake regarding the addresses held for Mr and Mrs H.
Im also satisfied that the records show that Mr H is the lead name on the account. And that 
all the copy statements Halifax has provided are addressed to Mr and Mrs H at the address 
ending ***OQF. So, while Halifax held two different addresses for Mr and Mrs H, Im satisfied 
that statements have always been sent to the address held for Mr H as he is the lead name 
on the accounts.  
I do acknowledge that Ms H has provided a copy of a letter from Halifax addressed to Mrs H 
at *** 2QX. But this is not a statement. The letter is confirmation that one of the two accounts 
held by Mr and Mrs H had been closed in line with their instructions. In this respect, Halifax 
has explained that when a joint account is closed, a closure letter is sent to both parties. And 
as mentioned above, as Im satisfied that Mrs H held a different address from Mrs H on Halifaxs records, I dont think Halifax did anything wrong when it sent a closure letter to both 
addresses.
 
I can see that Ms H is concerned that our investigator told her that Halifax had referred to a 
note it had added to its records when Mrs H called it to request some copy statements in 
2019. Ms H has suggested this note may be inaccurate. So, I think it would be helpful to 
explain that banks generally make notes on its customer records when a customer contacts 
it. 
Here, Halifax has provided a screenshot of the note it recorded in 2019 when it says Mrs H 
contacted it in 2019. Halifax provided us with a copy of the note to explain that it thought    
Mrs H should have already been aware  before this complained with raided in 2020, that it 
held different addresses for her and her husband. This is because the note suggests this 
was discussed with her in 2019. Overall, Ive no reason to doubt that the note was recorded 
in good faith and broadly covers the content of conversation Mrs H had with Halifax at that 
time. But ultimately, I dont think this has any bearing on the outcome of this complaint. 
 
Overall, I havent seen anything that would make me think Halifax has incorrectly changed 
the addresses it held for Mr and Mrs H or that statements have been sent to anywhere other 
than their residential address.
Ive then gone on to consider if Halifax provided Mr and Mrs H with statements of account 
when it should have. The starting point here are the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs 
accounts - which they would have agreed to when they opened the accounts. These say that 
statements will be issued monthly, but only when there have been payments out of the 
account. 
Ive noted from the telephone conversation between Ms H and our investigator that Ms H 
says that her parents stopped receiving statements from around November 2019. But in her 
subsequent email, Ms H said they had not received statements on account ending 767 from 
April 2019. So, its not clear when Mr and Mrs H say that the statements stopped. So, Ive 
looked at the activity on account ending 767 from April 2019. And I can see that this account 
was mainly used for receipt of pension payments. Other than these credits, as the 
investigator has already set out, there are long periods of inactivity in relation to debit 
payments. So, when taking this into account along with the terms and conditions of the 
account, I wouldnt expect Halifax to have issued statements in the months when there were 
no debit transactions on their account. 
Similarly, account ending 318 was also mainly used for receipt of pension credit payments. I 
can see that there were the occasional debit entries on account ending 767 in July and 
October 2019. But from what Ive seen, Im persuaded that statements were sent in those 
months. But from November 2019 onwards I cant see any further debit entries on either 
account until April 2020 (around when this complaint was raised and account ending 318 
was closed). Considering all of this, I havent seen enough to say that Halifax failed to issue 
statements when it should have in line with the terms of the accounts.
I acknowledge that as a result of not receiving monthly statement Mr and Mrs H may have 
wanted an update on their account balance. But, considering the above, I dont think Halifax 
was required to issue statements every month. But Mr and Mrs H couldve called Halifax to 
check the status of their accounts or request a statement to be sent if required.  
Ive also considered whether Halifax acted incorrectly when it sent texts relating to                                       
Mr and Mrs Hs accounts to another family member. In this respect, Ms H has asked why the 
investigator has taken Halifaxs side when it cant provide evidence as to where it obtained the number from. As mentioned above, Halifax no longer has copies of the account opening 
application forms. But it has provided records that show the number used was the contact 
number held on its records for Mr and Mrs H since at least November 2012. 
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Im required to decide what I think most likely 
happened given the evidence that is available. Given the time which has elapsed since the 
accounts were opened, I cant be certain how Halifax got this number. But, on balance, I 
think its more likely than not that Mr and/or Mrs H provided Halifax with this number as their 
contact number in 2012, although I do appreciate, they may now have forgotten that they did 
so. 
Halifax has confirmed that this number has now been removed from its records. Given the 
above, I dont think Halifax did anything wrong when it sent a text message to this number, 
but it has now taken the appropriate action so this number is not used again.
I can see that Ms H has also mentioned that Mrs H experienced problems when attempting 
to withdraw cash from a branch as she didnt have her PIN (personal identification number). 
As the investigator has explained the PIN is used to verify the owner of the card when 
undertaking transactions such a cash withdrawals and card payments. Halifax has provided 
records that a PIN was first issued to Mrs H in 2011. Given the limited activity on the account 
using a card, I think its likely that Mrs H may have forgotten the PIN over the years. But I 
can see that Halifax issued a new PIN to Mrs H on 24 April 2020  around the time this 
complaint was raised, and that she self-selected to change the four-digit number on                            
30 April 2020. Overall, I dont think Halifax did anything wrong if Mrs H was unable to 
withdraw cash if she didnt have her PIN number at the time. 
Ms H has raised concerns about the way in which Halifax handled this complaint. But this 
isnt something I can consider. Complaint handling is not a regulated activity and, therefore, 
its not something that falls within the remit of this service. 
Overall, based on the information available, I dont think Halifax has done anything wrong in 
respect of the issues raised within this complaint. So, I wont be asking it to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H, 
or Ms H on their behalf, to accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman