DRN-1190296
 
The complaint
Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr L applied for a credit card in a branch of Halifax in 2002. The PPI was added to his credit 
card at the same time and it was designed to help protect his repayments if he couldnt work 
due to disability or unemployment. It also included life and critical illness cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr L disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to look into afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr L says at no point did Halifax explain to him that the policy was optional. I cant be sure, 
after all this time, what was said. But Ive looked at the credit card application form Mr L 
signed at the time and I dont believe it supports what he says. 
The form included a box to be marked if Mr L wanted PPI. The box was marked with a 
printed X. From experience of how Halifax sold PPI in its branches, I think its likely that 
happened following discussions between the adviser and Mr L about PPI. 
So, I think Halifax probably made it clear to Mr L that the PPI was optional and that he 
actively chose to go ahead with it knowing he didnt have to. I can understand why he might 
not remember that now so many years later.
I think Halifax recommended the policy to Mr L. That meant it had to look into whether the 
PPI was right for Mr L in his circumstances. From what Halifax and Mr L have said, I think 
the policy was right for him because:
Mr L was eligible for the cover. And I dont think he was affected by the policys main 
restrictions or exclusions. 
Mr L says he was entitled to generous sick pay and redundancy pay from his public 
sector employer. But he didnt have any savings or other insurance to help him make 
his repayments if he wasnt working. The PPI benefits would have paid out on top of 
his employers pay and for up to 12 months per claim. So, overall, I think the PPI 
provided him with worthwhile extra security.
 Theres nothing to suggest Mr L couldnt afford the PPI. And, as the PPI was paid for 
with a monthly premium, if he no longer wanted it he could have cancelled it at any 
time at no extra cost.
 
Halifax also had to make sure it told Mr L enough about the PPI, so he could decide for 
himself if it was right for him. And it had to do this in a clear, fair and not misleading way. I 
dont know for sure how much information Halifax gave Mr L or how well it was explained. 
But, for the same reasons I think the PPI was right for him, I dont think better information 
would have made a difference to his decision to take it out.
Taking everything into account, I dont find that Mr Ls lost out because of how Halifax sold 
him the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman