DRN-1614729
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (previously Pearl) mis-sold 
them a mortgage endowment policy as the term of the policy didn't match that of their 
mortgage; the mortgage term expired before the policy was due to mature.  
What happened
Mr H had an existing endowment policy when he and his wife were moving in 1997. They 
needed a top up policy as the new mortgage was for more than the existing policy covered. I 
understand there was a delay in the policy being set up due to requiring medical information 
from Mrs H. Mr H also said there was a delay due to the availability of the adviser. 
The policy was taken out in April 1997 and had a term of 23 years. In 2019, Mr H's previous 
policy matured. It was at this time they enquired about the maturity of this policy as they 
expected it to mature at the same time.  Mr H says this was when they discovered the policy 
wasn't due to mature until April 2020, even though the mortgage was due to be repaid in 
December 2019. So they complained. 
Phoenix said the overall suitability of an endowment policy for mortgage repayment 
purposes was time-barred from high risk warning letters issued. It didn't uphold the 
complaint about the term of the policy as it said Mr and Mrs H ought to have been aware of 
this. It also said it wasn't responsible for the mortgage advice given. 
Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to this office and surrendered their policy. When 
sending its file Phoenix said it didn't consent to us investigating the complaint apart from the 
term mis-match; it explicitly gave consent for us to look into that. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. As the seller of the policy, she found it was the 
representative's responsibility to ensure the policy term and the mortgage term matched.  So 
she asked Phoenix to calculate the difference in the policy value had it been set up with the 
correct end date and 8% simple interest (not taking into account any increase in premiums) 
Phoenix asked for a decision. It said Mr and Mrs H would have been aware of the difference 
in the terms and said this complaint had been made too late under the general time limit 
rules. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Phoenix as said the complaint about the term of the policy is out of time. I don't 
disagree with that. Mr and Mrs H ought to have known the term of their policy from policy 
information provided shortly after it was arranged, and the update correspondence (annual 
statements etc) sent since. 
But when sending in its file Phoenix gave explicit consent to us investigating this part of the 
complaint. Under DISP 2.8.2AR once consent has been given it can't be withdrawn. That means we can consider whether the term of the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs H's 
needs and circumstances, despite the complaint being late. 
This complaint isn't about the mortgage advice, but whether the policy had been set up 
correctly to enable the repayment of the mortgage when it was due. The adviser would have 
been aware of the mortgage end date (as they arranged the mortgage too). I understand 
there were some delays caused by the need for medical information and due to the 
availability of the adviser. This meant by the time the policy was set up the mortgage was 
already in place and had started. 
As the party responsible for ensuring the suitability of the policy, I'm satisfied it was for the 
adviser to make sure the policy maturity coincided with the mortgage due date or, if that 
wasn't possible, to mature prior to its due date. I'm not persuaded Mr and Mrs H being aware 
of the respective end dates, or ought having been aware, means that responsibility has 
shifted. 
The advice Mr and Mrs H were given meant they would have been left with part of their 
mortgage to repay before having the means to do so; as the policy was set to mature four 
months later. It also meant Mr and Mrs H would have been in the position of having to 
negotiate with their lender, and possibly extend the term of their mortgage, or at the very 
least pay interest for longer than should have been necessary. But Mr and Mrs H 
surrendered their policy to prevent that from happening; a step they shouldn't have had to 
take. 
I therefore uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. The 
advice given by the representative wasn't suitable for Mr and Mrs H's needs and 
circumstances as there was a term mismatch between the policy and the mortgage.  
Putting things right
As I have found that Phoenix did something wrong, it needs to put Mr and Mrs H in the 
position they would have been had the policy been set up correctly. I need to take into 
account that Mr and Mrs H chose to surrender the policy prior to the mortgage end date. I 
require Phoenix to:
Calculate the value of the policy at the point of surrender, had the policy been set up 
with a maturity date to coincide with the repayment of the mortgage - December 
2019. If that's not possible due to the start date of the policy, then that calculation 
needs to be carried out to the policy anniversary prior to the mortgage due date. 
Phoenix should not take any notional savings into account if Mr and Mrs H would 
have been required to pay higher premiums. 
If there is a positive difference between the value Mr and Mrs H received when they 
surrendered the policy and the value they would have received had it been set up 
correctly, Phoenix should pay Mr and Mrs H that sum, plus 8% simple annual interest 
on that sum from the date it was due to the date of settlement. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require Phoenix Life Assurance Limited to 
redress Mr and Mrs H in accordance with the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman