The complaint
Mr B complains about how National Savings and Investments handled his request to return 
the funds hed invested.
What happened
On 10 July 2019 Mr B purchased £50000 of National Savings and Investments (NS&I) 
Premium Bonds online for his daughter using his debit card. He said, immediately after 
making his purchase, he realised he didnt need to buy the Bonds until 31 July 2019 in order 
to enter the September prize draw. So, he contacted NS&I to ask it to return his funds.
NS&I informed Mr B it would take seven banking days for his funds to clear and credit the 
account hed opened for his daughter. It also said once the funds had credited it would take 
around three days to return them. 
Mr B was unhappy with NS&Is timescales. He thought his money should be returned much 
sooner. So he complained. NS&I investigated Mr Bs concerns but didnt uphold his 
complaint. It stated it didnt have the same facilities as a regular bank or building society and 
this was why the timescales involved in funds clearing and being returned to customers were 
longer. NS&I explained its timescales were outlined in its customer agreement, which Mr B 
agreed to when he opened his daughters account. And it said, when his funds had cleared, 
on 18 July 2019, it immediately arranged to refund his money. So, it didnt think it had made 
an error.
Being dissatisfied with NS&Is response to his complaint Mr B referred it to our service. Our 
investigator assessed all the evidence provided to our service. But they didnt uphold this 
complaint. Overall, they concluded that NS&I had neither made a mistake nor treated Mr B 
unfairly. But he disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr B experienced here. I can see how strongly he feels 
about the issues raised in this complaint. However, my role is to assess whether I think NS&I 
made a mistake, or treated Mr B unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr B and NS&I that Ive read everything that theyve provided. 
So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
DRN-1479162Ive carefully considered the customer agreement that applies to the account Mr B opened 
on 10 July 2019 to see what it says about the length of time it takes for funds to clear and be 
returned. Having done so I can see NS&Is customer agreement outlines in clear intelligible 
language that it can only return a customers funds once theyve cleared. And, where those 
funds have been paid by debit card, theyll clear no later than the seventh banking day after 
being received.
In this case Mr B purchased Premium Bonds on 10 July 2019 and the funds credited his 
daughters account on 18 July 2019. Im satisfied this was within the timescales set out in 
NS&I's customer agreement. 
Im not persuaded the time it took for NS&I to refund Mr B after his funds cleared was 
unreasonable. I say this because I can see NS&I acted in line with its customer agreement.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded NS&I did anything wrong 
either in the time it took for Mr Bs funds to credit his daughters account or in the time it took 
to refund him. As I've already explained, it acted in line with the terms and conditions of its 
customer agreement. Mr B accepted these terms when he opened the account for his 
daughter. So it is fair and reasonable it now relies on them given each agreed to contract on 
this basis.
I can see that, on 31 July 2019, Mr B made a further purchase of the Premium Bonds hed 
wanted to purchase earlier that month. This qualified the account to enter Septembers prize 
draw. So, Im satisfied he wasnt prejudiced in this regard.
I recognise that Mr Bs funds werent earning interest while they were in the process of 
clearing and being returned to him. But Mr B chose to purchase bonds for his daughter on 
10 July 2019. And then it was his choice to ask NS&I to refund his funds so he could make 
the same purchase later that month. I cant fairly hold NS&I responsible for that. 
Finally, I understand that Mr B wants our service to tell NS&I it should return funds to 
customers more quickly. However, as  our investigator has explained, were not the regulator 
of banks and building societies. So, we cant tell a business to change its policy or to adopt 
the changes that Mr B would like. That said, Im satisfied NS&I followed its policy properly 
regarding refunds in the overall circumstances of this complaint. So, Im not going to ask it to 
do anything further.
I realise Mr B will be disappointed with this decision but Im satisfied NS&I has acted fairly 
and reasonably here. So, Im not upholding this complaint. This now brings to an end what 
we, in trying to resolve Mr B's dispute with NS&I informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant 
help Mr B any further with this.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Julie RobertsonOmbudsman