DRN-3168697
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt fairly refunded the premiums 
they paid for an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
On 3 October 2019, Mr and Mrs M took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy to 
cover trips taken on a worldwide basis of up to 31 days. The policy was provided by Great 
Lakes. This cover started on 6 October 2019 and ran until 5 October 2020. 
Mr and Mrs M paid a total of £192.76 including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the 
standard level of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered them for a 
number of declared medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs M said they were able to travel separately within Europe prior to the pandemic. 
But their holiday planned for March 2020 was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Because of the global pandemic, Mr and Mrs M said they werent able to travel as theyd 
intended. And on 14 July 2020, they contacted Great Lakes to request a policy extension. 
Great Lakes responded to Mr and Mrs Ms request the following day. It informed them that it 
was looking at how to deal with refund requests as an insurer and would contact Mr and Mrs 
M once a decision had been made. Mr and Mrs M didnt cancel their policy. Mr and Mrs M 
said they didnt hear anything further from Great Lakes afterwards despite chasing it for an 
update. So, on 13 September 2020, they asked it to raise a complaint on their behalf.
Great Lakes investigated Mr and Mrs Ms complaint but it didnt uphold it. In its final 
response letter, Great Lakes explained that Mr and Mrs M werent entitled to a refund 
because of the length of time theyd been on cover.
Being dissatisfied with Great Lakes response to their complaint, Mr and Mrs M referred it to 
our service. After our service got involved, Great Lakes offered Mr and Mrs M a refund of 
£9.64, which was 5% of the premiums they paid.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and assessed the offer Great Lakes 
had made. They empathised with Mr and Mrs M and acknowledged the unique and 
unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. They also set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. 
Our investigator explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 3 October 2019 and 
the policy covered various risks during that time. And they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint as they were persuaded that the offer Great Lakes had made was fair and 
reasonable.
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mr and Mrs M didnt 
and requested an ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a 
fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
Cover under Mr and Mrs Ms policy commenced on 31 July 2020, which is confirmed by the 
insurance documentation they received. Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M were reasonably made 
aware of the terms that applied to their policy, which are typical of the cancellation terms 
found in most travel insurance policies.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
If you cancel within 14 days of the receipt of your documentation and you have not started a 
trip or made or intend to make a claim, we will give you a full refund. 
Following this 14 day period, you continue to have the right to cancel your policy at any time 
by contacting us. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside of the 14 day cooling-off period no premium 
will be refunded. However, discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such 
as bereavement or a change to your policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
The policy wasnt cancelled within the cooling off period and so there is no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. As Ive 
outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to pay any 
refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs Ms cooling-off period ended on 17 October 2019, which was 14 
days from the date the policy was purchased. But Mr and Mrs M didnt contact Great Lakes 
to discuss their policy until 14 July 2020  and at this point they requested a policy 
extension, which they were told wasnt possible. They didnt request the cancellation of their 
policy at any time. Even if they had done during their conversation on 14 July 2020, this 
would have been outside the cooling off period. So, there wouldnt have been a requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. I say this 
because its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear 
risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for cancellation 
outside the cooling off. I understand that the pandemic may have prevented Mr and Mrs M 
from travelling as theyd have liked or intended and that this was outside of their control. So, 
Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from 
industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms contract because of the 
exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Ms contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started on 6 October 
2019.
Mr and Mrs M were insured from 6 October 2019 for travelling on any number of trips on a 
worldwide basis of up to 31 days duration which they may have taken until the policy 
expired. Theyve said they only had the opportunity of travelling once separately due to the 
pandemic and I their candour in relation to the travel they were able to undertake while 
covered by this policy. But, because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an 
insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips a policyholder has taken since their 
policy was incepted. Even if there was only one holiday, Mr and Mrs M made use of their 
annual policy and Great Lakes was covering the risk of a claim during the time the policy 
was in force.
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mr and Mrs M for cancellation of any holidays which 
they may have had booked and were due to take from 6 October 2019 until 5 October 2010. 
So, they would have been covered if they had had to cancel any number of holidays 
because of any listed events insured under the policy including, for example, them falling ill 
with their declared pre-existing medical conditions. 
So, Great Lakes covered the risk of Mr and Mrs M making a successful cancellation claim for 
any number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of holidays, from 
6 October 2019 until 5 October 2020. And its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, 
if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mr and Mrs Ms cancellation rights 
were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain the premiums relating to the risk it covered.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mr and Mrs M contacted Great Lakes on 
14 July 2020 to request an extension of their policy. But they didnt cancel their policy and it 
ran until its expiry on 5 October 2020. By the time Mr and Mrs M contacted Great Lakes to 
request an extension, there was only 83 days left to run on the policy before it expired. 
After Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to our service, Great Lakes offered to resolve 
this complaint by refunding £9.64 or 5% of the premium they paid. This presents a change in 
Great Lakes initial proposed resolution to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs M feel they should receive a higher premium refund because 
they havent been able to use their policy as much as theyd intended and think the 5% 
refund offer is unfair. But I think Great Lakes has acted reasonably here in its offer to resolve 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because its treated the date they first contacted it in the same 
way it would have done had they requested the cancellation of their policy at that time.
If Mr and Mrs M had requested that Great Lakes cancel their policy on 14 July 2020, theyd 
have been on cover for around 282 days. Great Lakes has said that, in its claims 
experience, it receives varying percentages of claims across different months of an annual 
multi-trip travel insurance policy. This means that the risk of a claim is not spread evenly 
across the year. 
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the percentage refund in the way it has, Im satisfied its demonstrated that there was a 
material unevenness in the spread of risk throughout the term of this annual insurance 
policy. And Im satisfied that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly or any 
differently to other customers in similar circumstances. And I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to direct Great Lakes to offer a larger refund in the particular circumstances of 
this case.Given that Mrs and Mr M didnt cancel their policy, and because Great Lakes had been on 
risk for over 280 days before they contacted it to discuss their policy extension request, I 
dont think its unreasonable or unfair for it to offer a 5% premium refund. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that the offer Great Lakes made 
is both fair and reasonable. Great Lakes should therefore refund Mr and Mrs M £9.64 in line 
with its offer to resolve this complaint.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Great Lakes should refund Mr and Mrs M £9.64 for the reasons 
outlined above.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To resolve Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, 
Great Lakes Insurance SE should put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman