DRN-4188836
The complaint
Miss K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) did not update her 
address when requested, causing correspondence to be sent to an incorrect address.
What happened
Miss K moved house in 2018, she says she told Barclays of her new address at this time. 
She then moved again in February 2020, and again says she made Barclays aware of this 
change.
In 2022 Miss K asked Barclays to look into a complaint about her credit card, when she 
didnt receive a final response as expected she discovered that the final response letter had 
been sent to the address she had lived at in 2018.
Miss K was concerned that her address hadnt been properly updated, and that other 
correspondence  potentially including private personal details  may have been sent to her 
old address. She raised a complaint about this with Barclays. 
Barclays looked into what had happened, it said that Miss Ls address had been updated in 
2020, but that this updated address had not been transferred across to its complaints 
system, which is why the final response letter had been sent to the wrong address. It paid 
Miss K £100 to recognise any distress caused, and updated her address to the correct one 
across all its systems.
Miss K remained unhappy, she says that her address should have been changed in 2018 
and in 2020, and is concerned that personal information may have been sent to her old 
addresses. 
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened. They agreed that Barclays had 
made an error in updating Miss Ks address in 2020, but said they could not see any 
evidence of a request to change the address in 2018. And overall, they were satisfied that 
the compensation Barclays had paid to Miss K was an appropriate resolution to this 
complaint.
Miss K remained unhappy, so her complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. 
I appreciate that Miss K remembers updating her address in 2018, and I dont doubt that 
Miss K has given us her honest recollection of what happened. But without anything further 
to support what she has said, I think that it is more likely that Barclays notes from the time 
accurately reflect what was discussed. And those notes do not show that any address 
update was requested.
When Miss K did update her address in 2020, its clear that something went wrong, and 
Barclays has accepted that it did not ensure Miss Ks address was updated across all 
systems. But while I dont doubt that the final response letter being sent to an incorrect 
address was worrying for Miss K, Ive not seen any evidence to show that any other 
correspondence was sent to the wrong address. And Barclays has confirmed that it was only 
the complaints system where the address was not correctly updated, so I think its unlikely 
that any account specific information such as statements was sent to the wrong address.
I acknowledge that Miss K did receive a survey from Barclays following her complaint which 
also quoted the incorrect postcode, but this was sent out around the same time as the final 
response letter, so the postcode was likely incorrect for the same reasons as set out above. I 
also appreciate that Miss K was told on the phone at this time that her address was correct, 
but that appears to be as a result of the staff member she spoke to not checking all the 
available systems. I dont consider this is evidence of a wider issue with the address that 
was recorded.
I understand that Miss K does not feel the compensation paid to her is adequate in the 
circumstances, but having though carefully about all that has happened Im satisfied that the 
£100 Barclays has already paid was a fair resolution to this complaint. Compensation can be 
so subjective, but with all Ive seen Im satisfied that the compensation paid by Barclays is in 
line with what I would have awarded, so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman