DRN-3488263
The complaint
Mr J complains that Leeds Building Society wont tell him whether having two separate 
leases in his name after he buys out the housing associations interest in his property would 
be considered having 50% equity in his property and allow him to reduce the interest rate on 
his mortgage.
What happened
Mr J has a property which is 50% owned by himself and 50% owned by a housing 
association. At the end of 2020, Mr J approached Leeds about an application whereby he 
proposed buying out the housing associations interest in the property. On 17 February 
Leeds got an email from Mr Js solicitor saying that Mr J intended to purchase the remaining 
share of the property and merge the leasehold and freehold titles, but Leeds then noted that 
the solicitors werent on its panel.
Mr J was unhappy with this and phoned Leeds on 19 February with a number of questions 
mainly about the need to use a panel solicitor but also as to whether there were issues if he 
didnt merge the leases in the future and had two leases.
Mr J again contacted Leeds on 19 March where he enquired whether  having two leases in 
his name on the same property would restrict his ability to have a mortgage with a 50% loan 
to value on the property which would have allowed  him access to better rates of interest.
Leeds responded to say that 
In terms of the merging of the leases or having them separate, this can only be answered 
through independent legal advice and hence the need to appoint a solicitor from the 
Societys panel. You can either use a panel solicitor to act for Leeds Building Society and 
yourself or appoint a panel solicitor to act on behalf of the Society and your own solicitor to 
act on your behalf.
The Society cannot provide answers about the best course of action regarding the leases as 
this is a legal matter. As soon as you have appointed a solicitor from the Societys panel to 
act on our behalf, and they have confirmed the best course of action regarding the leases 
and title, you can then move forward with your staircasing application.
About this time, Mr J moved abroad for work and had contact with Leeds about support 
during this time and about selling the property and a possible shortfall sale and about a 
consent to let whilst he was abroad. Leeds accepts it should have told Mr J at an earlier 
stage that the solicitors he appointed werent panel solicitors and paid compensation of 
£180. Our investigator didnt believe that Leeds had done anything wrong and didnt 
recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr J disagreed saying that Leeds failure to 
answer his questions meant he spent months in limbo unable to proceed with the staircasing 
that he hoped would allow him to reduce his interest rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J wants an answer to several questions to do with how he structures the title to his 
property whenever he buys out the 50% held by the housing association. He raises a 
question about how best to hold it for selling on and how best to hold it for gaining access to 
lower interest rates.  Leeds answer as set out above was for Mr J appoint a panel solicitor 
who would confirm the best course of action regarding leases and title. Mr J is unhappy with 
that response.
I can see that Mr J sees these as simple questions and expects Leeds to answer it directly. 
But Leeds is a lender which lends money. Questions about the security of its title, it will 
generally leave to lawyers engaged on its behalf and on its panel. In this case there appear 
to be two leases and a freehold and Mr Js query arises is whether they should be merged or 
not during his application to purchase the housing associations interest. Leeds answer is 
that as Mr J is engaged in the purchase of the housing associations interest, he will have to 
engage the services of one of its panel solicitors to secure Leeds interest. It suggests to Mr J 
that he asks its legal advisers what structure of title would be acceptable to it to achieve Mr 
Js aims. Given as I note that Leeds arent lawyers and would take guidance from their 
lawyers on matters to do with property title, that in the circumstances doesnt seem an 
unreasonable response.
I appreciate that Mr Js solicitors couldnt assist him but as I understand it, they arent panel 
solicitors and so couldnt advise what structure of title would be acceptable to Leeds for Mr J 
to achieve his objective. I note that Mr J in his email of 12 December 2021 says that Leeds 
failure to answer his questions has left him in a state of limbo. But although Leeds didnt 
directly answer the question it did offer a reasonable way forward to Mr J.
From my reading of the file I feel that it was unfortunate at the start that Mr J wasnt aware 
that he had to use a panel solicitor to secure Leeds interest. I note that solicitors would 
normally be aware if they were on a lenders  panel or not but I sense that because Mr J 
found this out late that it may have caused the friction between the Mr J and Leeds in this 
case. Leeds says that the requirement is on its website and I would expect most solicitors 
would be aware of it and whether they are on the panel or not although it may not always be 
clear until an application progresses as to whether in that particular transaction a panel 
solicitor is required. The requirement to use a panel solicitor is not an unusual requirement 
but was not referred to by Leeds staff until February. Leeds accepts that it should have 
addressed this earlier and paid what seems to me to be a fair compensation of £180. But my 
view as set out above is that Leeds response to Mr Js questions was reasonable and I cant 
fairly uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman