DRN-2709007
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service he received from TSB Bank plc and says it has unfairly 
closed his accounts.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr R found screen shots of some charges that had been made on an 
account. He contacted TSB as he felt these charges should be refunded to him. TSB said it 
couldnt find any record of these charges on any active or closed accounts for him. Unhappy 
with this response, Mr R complained to TSB. TSB eventually located the details of the 
account to which the charges were made, however, it transpired that this was not an account 
belonging to Mr R. 
TSB then advised Mr R it had made the decision to close his accounts and provided a two 
month notice period. But Mr R didnt think this was fair and was unhappy about the way he 
was treated. He wanted his accounts to remain open. He said one of those accounts was an 
ISA which had a fixed interest rate for two years and a penalty charge if the money was 
removed before the two years had passed. He said that, by closing the account early, he 
would also lose the interest that he would have received if it had remained active for the full 
two years - there was still a further six months before that time period expired. So, Mr R 
made a further complaint to TSB.
TSB didnt agree that it had treated Mr R unfairly. It said it would still be closing his accounts 
but did agree to reimburse the cost of the interest penalty on his ISA. It said if Mr R 
transferred his ISA funds to a new provider before the notice period expired, it would include 
this sum when transferring the funds to the new account. But TSB said if this didnt happen, 
it would send him a cheque for the balance of his funds and include the amount for this 
penalty within the cheque amount.
As he remained unhappy with this situation Mr R brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into his concerns but didnt uphold his complaint. He said that the terms 
and conditions of the account Mr R had agreed to when he took out his account allowed the 
bank to close his account at any time as long as it gave him two months notice in which to 
arrange the transfer of his accounts - which it did. And so, he didnt think TSB had to keep 
his ISA account open. And he found that TSB had acted fairly by offering to reimburse him 
for the penalty charge as a result of the account closing early. The investigator also looked 
into Mr Rs concerns about the way he was treated by TSB staff in phone calls but didnt find 
that that TSB had acted inappropriately. 
Mr R disagreed with our investigator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr R feels very strongly about what has happened and Im aware that he has raised 
a number of issues when bringing this complaint to our service. But it is important to point 
out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts 
for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of 
the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made in turn. This isnt intended 
as a discourtesy to Mr R. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and 
my role in it.
Ive looked at what happened when Mr R first contacted TSB regarding the bank charges he 
believed had been mistakenly taken from his account based on the screen shots he had 
found. The screen shots didnt include any information about the account holder, nor the 
account number or even a sort code. So, I can understand why TSB was unable to locate 
these charges and why it told Mr R he would have to provide more information if he wanted 
to pursue this further. I dont think this stance was unreasonable. And whilst TSB was 
eventually able to locate the charges, which didnt relate to any of his accounts, I dont think 
the timeframe to do this was excessive, especially considering the lack of information 
provided. Im satisfied that TSB dealt with this matter appropriately.
TSB decided to end its relationship with Mr R and close his accounts. Mr R said that he 
didnt want to move his accounts and felt this was unfair. Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions applicable to TSB account holders. These say TSB can close accounts by giving 
two months notice and doesnt need to give a reason for doing so. From the details Ive 
seen, TSB gave Mr R the required two months notice of its intention to close down his 
accounts  so it acted in accordance with the terms and conditions he agreed to when he 
took out his accounts with TSB. So, while I can appreciate Mr Rs frustration, I havent found 
anything which shows TSB has made a mistake or treated him unfairly by deciding to close 
his accounts.
Mr R has told us he had an ISA account which was on a fixed interest rate for two years and 
that by closing it early he would lose the interest which would have been payable during the 
remaining six months. But as I mentioned previously, the banks terms and conditions state 
TSB is entitled to close the accounts at any time, as long as it gives the required notice 
period  which it did. Even though Mr R may not be able to obtain the same level of interest 
on accounts with other banks, this doesnt mean that TSB was wrong to close the account. 
Im satisfied TSB has acted in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
Due to the type of ISA account Mr R held, if money was withdrawn within the two-year period 
a penalty of 180 days interest would be charged. TSB agreed to cover the penalty charge, 
as it was closing the accounts. It agreed to transfer the money to the provider of a new ISA 
account if Mr R arranged this before the end of the 60 day notice period or, if the transfer to 
the new provider wasnt arranged in that time, TSB would include the payment amount in the 
cheque for the account balance when it closed the accounts. This was explained to Mr R in a 
letter dated 9 December 2020, which was approximately three weeks before the date the 
accounts were due to close. I think TSB made the options available to Mr R sufficiently clear 
and gave him enough notice in order to make any necessary arrangements. So, I dont think 
it needs to do anything more.
Mr R has commented about the way he was dealt with to by TSB staff. He has told us that 
staff were rude to him, refused his requests for information and terminated calls. So, Ive 
listened to calls that took place between Mr R and TSB during October and November 2020. 
And Im not persuaded that TSB has provided poor customer service. I appreciate that the 
answers TSB was giving Mr R were not the ones he wanted to hear, and its processes 
regarding manager call backs didnt meet Mr Rs expectations. Where a call becomes 
unproductive, either because the outcome is no different from previous calls or where Mr R 
was not prepared to accept what he was being told, I do not criticise TSB for ending the calls. Im satisfied that TSB were not deliberately obstructive or overall acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman