DRN-4424935
The complaint
Mr M complains that Alphabet (GB) Ltd (Alphabet) incorrectly recorded him as the second 
keeper of a car he acquired with an agreement he took out with them.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr M acquired a new car through a credit sale agreement with Alphabet. The 
duration of the agreement was 42 months and Mr M said it was part funded by his employer 
through a car ownership scheme. The cash price of the car was £36,694.64 and the 
agreement was to be paid in 42 instalments of around £522, followed by a final instalment of 
around £14,200. The V5 document displayed the first keeper of the car as Mr Ms name, 
followed by,  c/o Alphabet GB.
Mr M made the final payment under the agreement and intended to sell the car to a third-
party. So, when Mr M purchased the car, Alphabet updated the keeper details to Mr Ms 
name, and removed the  c/o Alphabet GB from it.
Mr M said that when he purchased the car, it showed him as the second keeper of the car 
from January 2023, when he should have been listed as the first. Mr M said the third-party 
he intended to sell the car to would not purchase it from him. Mr M said it led to a delay in 
him being able to sell the car which resulted in a reduction in its value.
Mr M believed Alphabet made an error in how they recorded the registered keeper details 
and so he complained to them. Mr M said he later sold the car in March 2023.
In April 2023, during an email conversation with Mr M, Alphabet asked him for details of his 
road fund tax and insurance policy, as they looked to, arrange for these to be refunded to 
[Mr M]..
In May 2023, Alphabet provided their final response. They said when registering employee 
scheme cars, the V5 document should show the first keeper as the drivers name, and the 
address as C/O Alphabet GB. They said they instructed the supplying dealership correctly 
at the time. They then went on to say that unfortunately, when the car was registered prior to 
being delivered to Mr M, the supplying dealership added the first keeper as Mr Ms name, 
followed by  c/o Alphabet GB Ltd. This meant when Mr M later purchased the car from 
Alphabet, a new keeper had to be added to remove the  c/o Alphabet GB from the name, 
along with the necessary address change. All this meant Mr M was added as a second 
keeper from the date he purchased the car in January 2023.
Alphabet apologised for the clerical error and the inconvenience caused to Mr M. Alphabet 
also said they provided a letter to Mr M in January 2023 to confirm it was a clerical error at 
the point the car was registered. This letter was provided to help Mr M sell the car to the 
third-party.
However, in an attempt to sell the car for a second time to the third-party, along with the 
supporting letter from Alphabet, Mr M was involved in a collision with the car. The car could 
no longer be sold and had to be repaired. 
Alphabet said as the contract with them had already ended and they were not involved in 
repairs, they were not in a position to reimburse Mr M for any loss of value or other costs. 
However, they acknowledged the clerical error and offered a £50 voucher to be sent to him 
for the inconvenience caused in obtaining the supporting letter from them. The final 
response did not comment on the road fund tax and insurance payments they said they 
would earlier refund.
Mr M, unhappy with Alphabets response, referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. She said, in summary that Alphabets offer of a 
£50 voucher was not a fair and reasonable offer and she instructed them to pay £150 as 
compensation. She also said that Alphabet should refund any insurance premiums and road 
tax incurred between January 2023 and March 2023 to honour what they told Mr M they 
would do. 
Mr M accepted the investigators findings. However, Alphabet disagreed with it. They said in 
summary, that they had already given Mr M a voucher of £50, and they didnt think an 
additional award of £150 was fair. They also reviewed the email conversation where they 
had offered to refund road tax and insurance premiums and they said this was not offered on 
an admission of liability, but was rather an attempt to resolve the matter with Mr M during 
their complaint investigation. They do accept, however, they could have been clearer in their 
final response to Mr M. In summary, Alphabet suggested a fair way to resolve the complaint 
was a £50 voucher (which Mr M was already in receipt of) as well as an additional £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. But they didnt think additional money to reimburse 
Mr M for road tax and insurance costs was fair.
Our investigator put the revised offer forward to Mr M, and he declined it and requested an 
ombudsman review. And so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
It isnt in dispute that something went wrong here; namely the clerical error which resulted in 
Mr M being recorded as the second keeper of the car in January 2023 when he purchased it.
Alphabet initially gave Mr M a voucher of £50 to acknowledge the inconvenience caused of 
having to obtain a letter from them to show it was a clerical error. During our services 
involvement, Alphabet later revised their offer to an additional £150 for the inconvenience 
caused.
So, ultimately, for me to resolve this complaint in a fair way, I need to consider whether 
Alphabets offer to Mr M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And if I dont think it is, I 
need to consider what would be a fair way to put things right.
When considering what is fair, Im mindful that there are significant variables to think about. 
Mr M has said due to Alphabets error, he eventually sold the car for £500 less than he 
intended to. But I dont think Alphabet can be solely to blame for this. Firstly, we cant be 
certain what value the car would have sold for. The evidence provided is an estimation, and 
subject to change, depending on the condition of the car when inspected. And secondly, Alphabet provided a clarification of the clerical error by letter shortly after they were made 
aware of the issue.
In addition, Mr M was also involved in a collision with the car, which resulted in delays in the 
car being sold to a third-party until it was repaired.
Considering all of this, I cant say with certainty that Mr M would have received an additional 
£500 for the value of the car if Alphabet hadnt made the mistake.
But, in any event, a mistake had been made and it is clear from Mr Ms testimony that it did 
cause some acute distress and inconvenience. Given how quickly Alphabet had attempted 
to put things right once they were made aware of their error, by providing a written 
statement, Im satisfied £150 is enough to put things right.
Mr M would also like additional costs refunded such as road tax and insurance, which he 
says he had to pay until the car was sold. However, I dont think it is fair for Alphabet to 
refund these here. I say this because, Mr M still had use of the car up until when it was sold. 
And it is a requirement for the car to be correctly taxed and insured during possession of it. 
Mr M also had the benefit of relying on his insurance due to a collision he had when he 
purchased the car. So I dont think Alphabet need to do anything in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I instruct Alphabet (GB) Ltd to 
pay Mr M £150 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. This amount 
is in addition to the £50 voucher already paid to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman