DRN-2378104
The complaint
The estate of Ms M complains Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a claim
Ms V is one of the executors of Ms Ms estate and has been representing it in this complaint. 
So, I will refer to her in my decision.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Fairmead accepted Ms V was misinformed a loss adjuster would assess the damage 
 this wasnt done as they were unable to locate the policy in order to register the 
claim
Fairmead said the property was unoccupied for more than 60 days as it was last 
occupied by Ms V at the end of September 2018  and the damage occurred in 
December 2018. Because of this they declined the claim.
The policy says loss or damage isnt covered if the home was unoccupied at the time 
of loss or damage. The policy defines unoccupied as the home not being lived in by 
a person authorised by you, or a person authorised by you, for more than 60 days in 
a row.
Ms V said a relative had been staying at the property occasionally whilst carrying out 
some general maintenance and to keep the house heated during the winter months 
before she was due to return to it around Christmas time. Ms V said this was as 
recent as the end of November 2018.  
I can see Ms V discussed this with Fairmead in December 2018. But I cant see they 
carried out any further investigation regarding the occupancy, only about what work 
was being carried out at the property. 
Ms V has since provided information on gas and electric usage at the property from 
her energy provider  showing usage at the property between June and December 
2018.  And I think this is information Fairmead couldve reasonably asked her for at 
the time to fully determine whether or not the property had been occupied by a 
person authorised by Ms V
Based on Ms Vs explanation and the energy usage information provided, I think 
what shes said is plausible and Fairmead also hasnt provided any information that 
persuades me it isnt. So I think its more likely than not the relative was staying at 
the property as Ms V says. And at the time she contacted Fairmead to make the 
claim, the property hadnt been unoccupied for more than 60 days.
I dont think Fairmead did enough to demonstrate the unoccupancy clause could 
reasonably be applied and this caused Ms V, on behalf of the estate, inconvenience. 
Because of this Fairmead should pay £300 compensation.
So for these reasons I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above I think Fairmead should consider the claim under the 
remaining terms of the policy. It should also pay the estate of Ms M £300 compensation as 
this fairly reflects the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint. To put things right Fairmead Insurance 
Limited should pay Ms M £300 compensation
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms M 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman