DRN-3474196
The complaint
Mr As representative has complained, on his behalf, that he was unsuitably advised by 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to establish a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (FSAVC) policy.
What happened
In April 1994, Mr A established an FSAVC policy through Colonial Mutual (now Aviva) and 
then incremented his contributions in 1995. 
In 1994, Mr A was 30 and had been employed as a teacher since 1989. His initial 
contribution was £40 pm, and the increment increased his contribution by £34 pm.
Following the complaint made by Mr As representative in February 2021, Aviva declined to 
uphold the complaint, saying that its adviser would only have been able to discuss and 
recommend its products, but that it would have been expected to make Mr A aware of the 
alternative in house arrangements.
It said that it couldnt find the fact find document from 1994, but in that created in 1995, in 
answer to the question Are you aware that you can pay AVCs into the scheme?, Mr A had 
answered yes.
Further, Aviva said, in the notes section of the fact find, it said the following:
When advising [Mr and Mrs A] to take out an FSAVC, I asked them on 11/10/95 to 
investigate and compare costs and benefits of past added years and scheme AVC options 
available from their current pension scheme. Having had an opportunity to do this they now 
wish to proceed with the Colonial contracts.
Aviva said that this declaration was signed on 31 October 1995. Mr A had also confirmed at 
this second meeting that he wished to retire at age 55, but the adviser explained that this 
would be at the discretion of the scheme.
The personalised illustrations projected to both 55 and 60 said the following:
You have 3 options to increasing your main scheme pension. You can purchase added 
years, pay into the scheme AVC or pay into a Free Standing AVC. You must examine all 3 
options before making a choice.
Aviva concluded that it had it had recommended a suitable product for Mr As needs and that 
he was made aware of the alternative in house AVC arrangements so that he could compare 
his options.
Whilst the sale documentation from 1994 couldnt be found, Aviva nevertheless considered 
that the 1995 sale evidenced that such discussions were held, and that if Mr A felt that he 
hadnt previously been informed of his options, he would have had the knowledge of this in 
1995.
Dissatisfied with the response, the representative referred the matter to this service. One of 
investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said that, with 
regard to the 1994 sale, as there was no documentation to evidence that the alternative 
options were discussed with Mr A, he thought that this aspect should be upheld.
As to the increment in 1995, although he acknowledged what had been recorded in the sale 
documents, the investigator didnt think that this had gone far enough. He said that, in 
addition to highlighting the different options available to Mr A, the adviser would need to 
have discussed and recorded the generic differences between the different options. And 
although Mr A was directed to carry out his own investigations, and the completed form 
indicated that Mr A had done this, the evidence didnt support the position that Mr A had 
been informed, for example, that the in house AVC would have been cheaper.
As such, the investigator recommended that Aviva undertake a redress calculation to 
determine whether Mr A had been financially disadvantaged in terms of higher charges 
levied within the FSAVC policy.
Aviva disagreed, however, saying that the records from the 1995 increment, and in particular 
the statement relating to the adviser having asked Mr A to investigate his in house options, 
had been approved by Colonial Mutuals quality assurance team as being in line with the 
regulators requirements at the time.
Having had the opportunity to compare the costs and benefits of the options, Mr A wished to 
proceed with the FSAVC policy increment. And it said that it was reasonable to assume that 
any information Mr A had obtained on his options would have been discussed with the 
adviser. The requirement upon the adviser was to explain that in house AVCs were likely to 
provide better value for money, but Aviva said that it hadnt seen any requirement of the 
adviser to record what was said or the generic differences.
By referring Mr A to his employer and then for the employer to provide details of the in house 
options, Aviva didnt think it would have been possible for Mr A to revert to its adviser and 
not have questions which he would want answering before proceeding with the increment to 
the FSAVC policy.
Aviva also said that, although it noted the investigator had proposed a redress calculation on 
the basis of Mr A instead having bought added years, it didnt think this was appropriate 
given that this would have been calculated as a percentage of his salary, and so would have 
increased in cost as his earnings also increased. The premium would have been based on 
affordability, and furthermore, as Mr A had indicated that he wished to retire early, added 
years wouldnt have met this requirement.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
similar reasons.
I dont think that the lack of evidence from the 1994 sale should automatically mean that the 
complaint should be upheld  in the absence this, Id reach conclusions on a balance of 
probability as to what was more likely than not to have been the case. And in this instance, I 
think the 1995 increment is indicative of the likely discussion which would have taken place a year earlier.
In 1994, under the LAUTRO code of conduct which was in place at the time, Aviva needed 
to have regard to Mr As right to contribute to an AVC arrangement and deal with him fairly.
But although Ive noted Avivas comments relating to the advisers recommendation that Mr 
A investigate his in house options, as with the investigator I dont think this went far enough. 
Making Mr A aware of the generic differences and benefits of the different types of solution 
for enhancing his pension should have included, as Aviva has itself identified, reference to 
the in house AVC scheme likely being cheaper in terms of costs than the FSAVC policy.
Mr A may well, as a result of the advisers recommendation, have looked into the in house 
options, but I think theres a difference between Mr A, as the pensions layman, drawing the 
conclusion of his own accord that there was a likely cost benefit in choosing the in house 
AVC route, and the adviser pointing this out to him when advising him to look into his 
options. 
I think that the latter would have been consistent with Aviva having regard for Mr As in 
house options and its requirement to deal with him fairly. And if this likely difference in costs 
had been brought to Mr As attention by the adviser, I can conceive of no reason as to why 
this wouldnt have featured in the documentation at the time.
And so I agree with the investigators position that the complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
Ive noted Avivas comments about the manner of calculating whether redress is due to Mr 
A, but I think some confusion may have arisen here. The investigator recommended that a 
comparison be undertaken on the basis of the difference in charges between the in house 
AVC arrangement and the FSAVC policy  not on an added years basis.
And so Aviva should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators 
FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data 
for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In my view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Aviva should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr As FSAVC plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
to undertake the above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman