DRN-4135455
The complaint
Mr K complains that Skyfire Insurance Company declined him a policy on the basis of 
incorrect information, which has affected the cost of his premiums. 
What happened
Mr K had a motor insurance policy with Skyfire from September 2021 to September 2022 
which was arranged through an intermediary. 
On renewal, Skyfire declined to offer cover because Mr K had 5 claims in the previous 5 
years. 
However, Mr K says this is incorrect because one claim was a windscreen claim, and three 
of the other claims are non-fault. 
Mr K also says that he was incorrectly told that he would need to declare the declinature to 
his new provider, and so he paid £1700 for a policy that should have cost him around £600, 
and he has to have a black box. Skyfire later told him that he didnt have to declare it as it 
was an underwriting decline. 
Mr K wants the declinature removed from his record, and compensation of the £420 extra he 
has paid for a policy. 
Mr K raised a complaint about this  but he was unhappy with Skyfires response and brought 
his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ks complaint but he thought Skyfire had acted 
fairly and within the terms of the policy. 
 
 Mr K disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether Skyfire have acted fairly and in line with their own 
underwriting criteria when declining cover, and whether they provided incorrect advice to Mr 
K about what he needed to declare to a new insurer.  
Im not upholding this complaint and I will explain why. 
Skyfire have provided their underwriting criteria, which says that they wont offer cover if 
there have been more than four claims in the previous five years regardless of fault - but 
excluding windscreen and key claims. 
They note that Mr K has had 5 claims on the following dates  23 July 2019, 1 November 
2019, 29 August 2021, 9 November 2021, 5 February 2022  which were all in the five years 
prior to renewal.  
Skyfire have sent me the claim data that was held on their systems, and I can see that all 
five of the above claims were accidents, although only one of them seemed to be a fault 
claim. There is also a sixth claim on 13 September 2022 which is for a windscreen. 
And so, on the basis of that information provided I am satisfied that Skyfire have fairly 
applied their underwriting criteria in declining cover to Mr K, as the evidence shows that he  
had 5 claims in the previous five years, excluding the windscreen claim.   I appreciate that 
Mr K feels this is unfair because some of the claims are not fault claims, and one of them 
was before he was insured by Skyfire, but unfortunately, as Ive said above, that doesnt 
matter for the purposes of Skyfires underwriting criteria, and they were clear about that from 
the initial renewal enquiry. 
Ive then looked at what advice Mr K was given about what he needed to declare to any 
future insurer. 
Ive listened to the call that Mr K had with Skyfire when he was renewing his insurance on 24 
August 2022. He was advised that they wouldnt be able to insure him for the next year, and 
they were clear that it didnt matter who was at fault in respect of the claims. They also 
advised Mr K that he would need to declare the five claims to his new insurer. However, they 
didnt advise that he would need to declare that he had been declined insurance by them.  
And so whilst I can understand how Mr K made the mistake of declaring the insurance 
decline to his new insurer, I cant fairly say that it was Skyfires fault that he did so, as they 
didnt tell him that he needed to do so. 
I can see that Skyfire have offered £75 by way of apology for misadvising about his no 
claims discount, and I dont propose to interfere with that award. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint about Skyfire Insurance Company Limited and so I wont 
be asking them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman