DRN-3282782
The complaint
Mr S complains HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to help recover money he lost when a 
forex trading company he was dealing with failed to provide him with the services it had 
promised.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Between June 2019 and July 2019, Mr S made three payments totalling over £8,500 
(inclusive of transaction fees) using his HSBC Visa debit card to a forex trading company, 
who Ill refer to as T. 
Several months later Mr S contacted HSBC for assistance with recovering the money. He 
asked that it raise a dispute through Visas chargeback scheme for the payments hed made 
to T as it wasnt authorised to provide the services it was offering. HSBC requested some 
information from Mr S and based on what he provided; chargebacks were processed, and 
temporary refunds for the disputed payments were credited to Mr S account. Ts bank 
defended the chargebacks at both first presentment and at the pre-arbitration stage. HSBC 
decided not to take Mr S claims any further and removed the temporary refunds. 
Mr S complained. HSBC maintained that it is unable to assist any further under Visas 
scheme. 
Unhappy with HSBCs position, Mr S referred his complaint to our Service. One of our 
Investigators considered the complaint and didnt think HSBC needed to do anything further 
here. In summary, she said declining to pursue Mr S chargeback claims further was neither 
an unfair nor unreasonable exercise of HSBCs discretion. She also didnt think HSBC 
couldve reasonably prevented Mr S losses. Mr S disagrees and asked for his complaint to 
be reviewed again. The matter was passed to me to decide.   
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the Investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. 
I recognise Mr S feels strongly about T and its actions. I know he thinks HSBC should have 
done more as it has the power and means to chase fake merchants such as T. I 
understand for him this is a matter of principle, and it is the reason why he insists for his 
case to be resolved in a way that will help banks construct better systems to combat such 
wrongdoing and protect innocent victims. But I must be clear my role here is to decide 
whether HSBC has acted fairly in the individual circumstances of Mr S complaint. Our 
Service isnt the regulator, as such we cant tell banks (and here HSBC) how to run their 
business and I cant investigate, punish or fine T. I also cant uphold a complaint because 
Mr S insists that by doing so, it will go some way towards driving banks to behave differently 
and help implement better systems to protect victims. For me to uphold this complaint and 
direct HSBC to pay Mr S losses Id need to be persuaded that HSBC made a mistake when 
processing the payments that resulted in Mr S losses or it has treated him unfairly when 
attempting the recovery of those funds.       
Firstly, like the Investigator Im satisfied the transactions wouldnt have appeared particularly 
unusual to HSBC and I dont think there were sufficient grounds for it to intervene before the 
payments were made. And, as the transactions were authorised by Mr S, the starting 
position is that he is responsible for them. 
I know Mr S has argued that although the amounts are similar to other legitimate 
transactions it is the destination that should matter. And the fact that T was not on HSBCs 
blacklist is its responsibility. In considering what Mr S has said Ive paid particular attention 
to the official organisations that publish warnings about companies that operate in the UK 
and abroad. Ive searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's 
securities regulators. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as the UK regulator also 
has its own warning list, which is in place to share alerts and insight about companies that 
have been identified as potentially being fraudulent or operating without relevant 
permissions. Upon checking both of these, its my understanding that T had no adverse 
information reported about it until 2020  which was after Mr S payments. So I dont think 
that HSBC couldve reasonably known that T were possibly operating dishonestly and/or 
illegally. Ive also not seen any evidence that would suggest that HSBC had internal 
information that T was operating a scam at the time of Mr S payments. And whilst HSBC do 
have the ability to stop payments where they have grounds for suspecting fraud or the 
misappropriation of funds, Im not persuaded it ought to have suspected T was operating 
fraudulent in absence of any credible evidence of this at the material time.  
Here, HSBCs only option to try to recover Mr S funds was through a chargeback which 
would be subject to the relevant scheme rules.
Chargeback 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme, which allows card issuers, on behalf of 
cardholders, to dispute payments for certain specified reasons set out by the card scheme 
operator. There is no obligation on a card issuer  here HSBC  to raise a chargeback claim. 
And where a claim is raised the card issuer is bound by the card scheme providers rules, 
which in this case is Visa. It is Visa  not HSBC, who will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute 
between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed.I consider it to be good practice that a chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable chance 
of it succeeding. Similarly, if an initial chargeback claim is defended we consider that the 
card issuer should pursue the claim where appropriate to arbitration when  for example  
the merchants defence appears weak and/or the cardholder was able to produce further 
strong supporting evidence. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration 
decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC ) 
acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on 
behalf of its cardholder.
  
Here, HSBC did raise chargeback claims on Mr S behalf but didnt pursue the claims 
beyond the pre-arbitration stage  that is to say it raised the claims, received a response 
from the merchant defending the claims, challenged this again, but didnt then pursue the 
matter to the final stage  arbitration, as it didnt think that Mr S claims had a reasonable 
prospect of success under the scheme rules. Mr S argues he has provided HSBC with 
compelling evidence and his claims had an excellent chance of succeeding at arbitration. 
Having carefully considered everything Im not persuaded that HSBC have acted unfairly by 
not taking the chargeback further. Ill explain why. 
Mr S has provided several reasons for why he believes his claims ought to succeed. 
Ultimately, he says that T were operating unethically and have failed to provide him with the 
services promised. I think it would be helpful for me to explain that whilst Visa does give 
chargeback rights in relation to investment disputes, these are very narrow and require 
specific evidence to succeed. The scheme does not investigate allegations of fraud or 
provide a dispute resolution process for allegations of a scam. Nor is Mr S under these 
circumstances automatically entitled to a refund. 
Having taken everything into consideration Im satisfied HSBC raised Mr S claims under the 
most appropriate Visa reason code  13.5: Misrepresentation. This allows a claim for 
misrepresentation for investments where the merchant refuses to allow the cardholder to 
withdraw available balances. But Visa requires very specific evidence  a copy of the 
cardholders investment account showing the date, the withdrawal amount, and the available 
balance at the time the withdrawal request was made. This specific evidence also needs to 
be provided for each withdrawal request.   
I appreciate Mr S believes he has provided compelling evidence to HSBC (as required by 
Visa under reason code 13.5: Misrepresentation) which show that his withdrawal requests 
had not been honoured even though he had the necessary balance in his account. He also 
provided rebuttals to some of Ts defence points. To be clear, much of what T said in 
response to HSBCs chargeback claims was irrelevant and I dont place any weight on the 
way in which the claims were defended  bar the only relevant point  that HSBC hadnt 
produced the evidence Visa required. As noted above Visa requires very specific evidence 
from cardholders in claims like this. It needs a dated screenshot, showing the available 
balance in the account and that the cardholder tried to withdraw sums equal to or less than 
the available balance on the same day. Ive looked carefully at all the information provided 
by Mr S and unfortunately, he did not have this very specific evidence. The screenshots he 
shared which show the cancelled withdrawal amounts, do not show what the available 
balance in the trading account was at the time. And the screenshots which do show the 
trading account balance (whilst not relevant as they show a zero balance) are not dated. The 
other entries Mr S has referred to on the transaction history he has provided only show profit 
or loss made on individual trades (when they closed) or amounts that were credited to the 
account. As the specific evidence required under Visas scheme rules hadnt been provided 
by Mr S. I dont think HSBCs conclusions that the claims stood no reasonable prospect of 
success if taken further and its decision to not take claims to arbitration was unreasonable.Whilst I note Mr S believes HSBC needs to provide clear evidence of the questions it raised 
and response it got from T in relation to his claims. As Ive already explained the test here is 
whether the evidence provided by Mr S met the criteria for a valid claim under Visas scheme 
rules. And if it didnt, I cant fairly say that HSBC have acted unreasonably in not taking Mr S 
claims to arbitration. However, Im satisfied HSBC had shared Ts representations with Mr S, 
as I can see he sent a detailed response to this to HSBCs Disputes Department in 
March 2020. But of course, if Mr S would like any other information HSBC holds in relation to 
his claims, as he rightly pointed out, under his personal privacy rights, he can request this 
information from HSBC.   
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC did try to help Mr S. It raised chargeback claims on his behalf 
and took them as far as pre-arbitration to try and assist him in the recovery of his funds. But 
in the absence of the evidence required under the scheme rules I dont think HSBCs 
conclusion that the claims would likely not succeed at Visas final stage of arbitration, and its 
decision to not pursue this further is unreasonable. 
I appreciate Mr S will likely be extremely disappointed with this. I know he feels very strongly 
that HSBC ought to have done more to protect him and assist him in recovering his funds. 
But, for the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that HSBC ought to have done more 
at the time the payments were processed nor do I think it has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in connection with any rights or responsibilities under Visas chargeback scheme, so I cannot 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman