DRN-2348284
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money that was debited to his 
account but not dispensed when he attempted a cash withdrawal.
What happened
Mr P says he twice tried to take out £250 from a cash machine on 28 October 2019. But that 
no money was given to him. He complained to Barclays as £250 had been debited from his 
account.
Barclays says that it contacted the third-party operator of the cash machine. And that it 
received confirmation that the money was dispensed, and the machine balanced. So, it 
wouldnt be making a refund.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and Mr P be refunded £250 
plus eight per cent simple interest. He said that Mr P had requested a withdrawal at 18:00 
that day. And he had made a further attempt for the same amount at 18:01. This was 
declined as it was said his daily withdrawal limit would have been exceeded. Hed listened to 
recordings of calls between Mr P and Barclays starting that from that evening. And seen 
evidence that he had repeatedly checked his balance through the mobile banking app 
including at 18:03, 18:08 and 18:20 that evening. Mr P had explained that he was to use this 
money for regular shopping. His bank statement showed that this withdrawal amount wasnt 
unusual.
The evidence Barclays provided from the third-party cash machine owner only stated the 
machine balanced over the period 25 to 30 October 2019. There was a log of the use of the 
machine between 17:58 and 18:07 that day. But there was no more detail about any 
amounts of money in the purge bin or the supporting information behind the balance 
certificate. Thats something wed expect to see and although hed asked the operator 
directly for that information it hadnt responded. We also hadnt had any information about 
whether thered been other claims against this machine. 
Barclays didnt agree and said it wanted an ombudsman to review the case. It had followed 
its process when requesting information from the third party. And this showed that the cash 
machine balanced, and it said that if there were any funds left it wouldnt have. This is 
sufficient evidence to show that the cash was dispensed correctly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the available recordings of the calls Mr P had with Barclays and our service 
about this complaint. I consider hes given a consistent and plausible explanation of what 
happened. He did try and make another withdrawal from the machine for which funds 
wouldnt have been available had the first one gone through. He reported the matter and had 
checked the balance on his mobile app. As our investigator says this isnt a withdrawal 
unusual for him and Mr P explained that he paid for shopping instead with money his wife 
had.
I dont think on balance he took the money from the machine. That in my view leaves two 
possibilities. The first is that he was distracted or didnt wait long enough for the money to be 
dispensed. I cant see any detail of the time between when the request was made and the 
money was actually dispensed, or of the notes involved. But I can see that during the short 
time between his first request and his repeated request for cash a different card had been 
inserted. It is possible that the person using this other card or another third party at the 
machine took Mr Ps cash especially as there was no withdrawal made using that different 
card. I know that this possibility was put Mr P him in a call with our investigator and he said 
that this didnt happen.
The other possibility is that the machine didnt work properly and for some reason the notes 
were either not taken and reclaimed by the machine or they were rejected due to a fault. 
Ordinarily that would mean that Mr Ps account wouldnt remain debited even if as Barclays 
explained when he called that could take 24 to 48 hours to correct for. We typically see a 
greater granularity of information about the way a machine was balanced and any cash in 
the purge bin. And thats something I think Barclays would have provided about one of its 
own cash machines. I can see why here it has relied on the information the third party has 
given it. And our investigator hasnt been able to get a further response from the third party.
Ive balanced all these factors in reaching my decision. In the circumstances of this specific 
case and putting weight on Mr Ps testimony Im not satisfied that its most likely that this 
cash was correctly dispensed to him. I think the level of information from the third-party 
leaves open the possibility of that error without further verification. And so, I am going to be 
finding in Mr Ps favour here.
Putting things right
Mr P was deprived of this money and I agree it should be refunded to him with simple 
interest at a rate of eight per cent per annum.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr P 
£250 plus simple interest at eight per cent per annum from 28 October 2019 to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman