DRN-4197450
The complaint
Miss S complains that Studio Retail Limited trading as Ace (Studio Retail) irresponsibly 
gave her a revolving credit account that she couldnt afford. For simplicity Ill refer to the 
revolving credit account as the account or the credit account in this decision.
What happened
On 6 March 2017, Miss Ss revolving credit account was opened by Studio Retail with an 
initial credit limit of £100. The credit limit was increased to £200 in June 2017 and to £300 in 
April 2018. The credit limit was decreased later in the account history. 
On 15 August 2022, Miss S complained to Studio Retail to say that the account shouldnt 
have been opened because it wasnt affordable and that Studio Retail ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before it provided her with credit. 
Studio Retail did not agree. Miss S brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the lending on the account was reasonable initially but thought that 
Studio Retail ought not to have increased the credit limits when they did. Studio Retail didnt 
agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I intend to partially 
uphold Miss Ss complaint. I explain why below. 
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Studio Retail should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include: 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged indebtedness 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Our investigator set out in some detail why she thought Studio Retail shouldnt have 
provided Miss S with any additional credit in June 2017 and thereafter. Studio Retail didnt 
agree with what our investigator said. It said the credit limits it set were affordable for Miss S. 
Miss Ss complaint is that Studio Retail made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Studio Retail told us it obtained credit reference data about Miss S at the time of the account 
opening and prior to each credit limit increase and that it took into consideration how the 
account was being managed. 
Its possible that Studio Retail failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss S with 
the initial credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused 
Studio Retail to think the initial credit limit was unaffordable. I say that because the initial 
credit limit was hugely modest and the maximum monthly payments for that credit would 
have been very modest. Studio Retails searches showed them that Miss S had no accounts 
in arrears at the time of the application and there was no public information showing any 
adverse financial information. I have seen insufficient evidence that Miss S was in financial 
difficulty, such that the very modest initial credit made the initial lending unreasonable. 
But in deciding whether to increase the credit to Miss S Studio Retail also had the 
knowledge of how Miss S was managing her account. So, for the credit increases, Ive also 
looked at the overall pattern of Studio Retails lending history with Miss S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Studio Retail should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean Studio Retail 
should have realised that it shouldnt have further increased Miss Ss credit limits. 
Having done so, I think there was such a point in June 2017. At that time, despite the most 
modest of credit limits, I think there was a pattern of lending that ought to have put Studio 
Retail on notice that putting up the credit limit any further was unsustainable as Miss S would 
not have been able to afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner, most 
likely. I explain why I say that. 
Studio Retails records show that in the four months the account had been open, Miss S had 
missed two payments and exceeded the credit limit twice. Given that Miss S was struggling 
to manage her account with such a very modest limit of £100, I dont think that it was 
appropriate for Studio Retail to increase the credit limit at this time. Therefore, I think Studio 
Retail ought to have known that Miss S was unlikely to be able to sustain a higher limit given 
how her account was managed. And so, I dont think this credit limit increase, in June 2017, 
or any subsequent increase shouldve been granted. 
So, I am persuaded that Studio Retail should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, and it shouldnt have further increased Miss Ss 
credit limit in June 2017, the date of the first credit increase. It follows that I think that Miss S 
lost out because Studio Retail provided her with further credit from June 2017 onwards. 
In my view, Studio Retails actions unfairly prolonged Miss Ss indebtedness by allowing her 
to use credit she couldnt afford over an extended period of time and the interest being 
added would only have the effect of putting her into further debt. It follows that Studio Retail 
should put things right. Putting things right
Rework Miss Ss account to ensure that from June 2017 onwards interest is only 
charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £100, including any buy now pay 
later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no 
further credit limit increases should have been provided. All late payment and over 
limit fees should also be removed; 
and 
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments have been 
made Studio Retail should contact Miss S to arrange an affordable repayment plan 
for the account. Once Miss S has repaid the outstanding balance, it should remove 
any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file from June 2017 onwards for 
the account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Miss S, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. Studio Retail 
should also remove any adverse information from Miss Ss credit file from June 2017 
onwards. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to take off tax from this interest. Studio 
Retail must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Miss Ss complaint. Studio Retail should put 
things right in the way set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman