DRN-3820850
The complaint
Miss O complains that a car she financed through an agreement brokered by Hippo Vehicle 
Solutions Limited, trading as Hippo Motor Group (Hippo) was misrepresented to her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss O, but I agree with the investigators opinion. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss O acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 explains that finance providers are liable for 
what they say and for what is said by a credit broker before the consumer takes out the 
credit agreement.
So, if Miss O was told something that was false by Hippo, and that led her to enter into an 
agreement she wouldnt otherwise have entered into, I would think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to her and Id ask Hippo to take some action.
The finance agreement explained that the mileage on the car was 36,412 and Im persuaded 
that wasnt likely to be a mistake. Thats because the mileage that was recorded in the July 
2022 MOT was 44,264 and that seems consistent with the amount of mileage Id expect 
Miss O to have travelled given that the mileage limit on the finance agreement was 10,000 
per year and the car had been in Miss Os possession for about a year. 
So, I dont think Miss O was given false information about the cars mileage when she 
negotiated the finance agreement and in those circumstances it wouldnt be reasonable to 
suggest the agreement had been misrepresented to her. 
It seems likely that the incorrect mileage (56,420) was reported to the DVLA after the 
agreement was reached and by the MOT station who were completing the MOT Miss Os car 
was being supplied with. But the finance documents showed what I think was likely to be the 
correct mileage so the MOT stations apparently inaccurate reporting cant fairly be said to 
have induced Miss O to enter into the finance agreement; she had no knowledge of that 
potentially inaccurate reporting until about a year later. 
The inaccurate report may be something Miss O is able to take up with the MOT station 
directly or with the regulator who I believe are the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency 
(DVSA). However, as the potential error doesnt relate to the regulated finance agreement 
its not an issue I can fairly consider.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman