DRN-3966861
The complaint
Mr G complains that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED, trading as Fund Ourselves (FOL) lent 
to him irresponsibly in January 2022. 
Mr G also complains about the way he has been treated by FOL and that FOL has pursued 
him for the debt since he fell into arrears in April 2022. Mr G also was of the view that the 
amount he was being asked to pay was more than what was allowed  double the original 
loan sum.
What happened
Mr G took one loan in January 2022 for £750 which with the interest was due to cost him 
£1,344. He was due to repay four lots of £336 a month. In April 2022 he was in arrears and 
agreed a £50 a month repayment plan with FOL. 
Our understanding is that by 7 April 2023, Mr G had repaid to FOL £50 in May, June and 
July 2022 and November 2022 and nothing more. 
After Mr G had complained, he received the final response letter from FOL in which it gave 
reasons why it did not think it needed to uphold his complaint.
Mr G referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service and it took time for the complaint to be 
reviewed by one of our adjudicators.
In December 2022 Mr G had received a Notice of Default dated 8 November 2022 and he 
was concerned and so he emailed us to add to his complaint the additional points 
surrounding the way he felt he was being treated by FOL, and the method it was using when 
asking for payment which he felt was excessive. 
Our adjudicator issued his first view in which he gave reasons why he did not think that the 
complaint should be upheld. Mr G did not agree and it was passed to me to decide.
I initiated the second view from our adjudicator to address the additional points for Mr G and 
that was sent to Mr G and FOL in April 2023. Our adjudicator did not uphold any of Mr Gs 
points and explained that the sum of £1,500 total to repay was not in breach of any 
regulations. The reply date was 9 May 2023.
Mr G has responded to say that he does not accept what the adjudicator has said about the 
amount to repay  Mr G considers that its wrong as double £750 is £1,500. 
Mr G has said nothing further and has not sent any additional information or evidence. 
As the complaint was already on my desk and as Mr G had replied to express further 
disagreement, then I have proceeded to review it and issue my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Irresponsible lending 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
FOL had to assess the lending to check if Mr G could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. FOLs checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Gs income and 
expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest FOL should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr G. These factors include:
Mr G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr G. But as Mr G took one loan only 
then this is not applicable here. 
FOL was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr G was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G declared to FOL in his application that this income was £6,000 a month. FOL used a 
Credit Reference Agency (CRA) tool to check the accuracy and it has said to us that:
For the loan in question, the Income Con was 7 and the Income Max was Low. 
this falls into the green category which confirms that the applicant stated their 
income accurately and their income was recently confirmed and verified using current 
account data.
Mr G also said to FOL when he applied that his debt commitment cost was £1,750 a month, 
his food and drink costs were £250 and for leisure £500. Mr G declared his rent as £900, travel £500 and bills £100 each month. He informed FOL he was single, had no dependents 
and was employed full time. Mr G gave the name of his employer. Mr G said he was a joint 
owner of a home and the reasons for the loan was unforseen costs. 
Mr G has seen that our adjudicator has used these figures in his views (certainly the income 
figure) and has never told us that was wrong. So, I consider that the evidence surrounding 
Mr Gs income and outgoings were figures about which FOL could be confident at the time 
he applied for the loan. And in the absence of anything different then I have proceeded on 
the basis that Mr Gs income (after tax) was around this figure - £6,000 a month. 
I have seen Mr Gs bank statements. It does not show a salary figure crediting his account, 
but I am aware that a lot of transfers were taking place from another account into the one for 
which copies have been sent to us and so it may well be that his salary was paid into the 
other account. And another reason I am confident that Mr G had another account is that the 
£750 from FOL was paid to Mr G on 19 January 2022 and the bank account copies we have 
received from him does not show that £750 crediting the account. So, it must have been paid 
into the other account. So, I do not consider Ive received the full picture from Mr G about his 
finances. 
Mr G has said that if FOL had reviewed his bank statements then it would have known he 
was a gambler. But I do not consider that FOL was required, or would have been prompted, 
to have asked for copy bank statements to review. And I say this because the information 
Mr G had given FOL, as a new customer and for a first loan over a short term of four 
months, was information I consider proportionate for it to rely on. And the credit search 
which FOL obtained did not reveal anything that likely would have prompted FOL to think it 
had to carry out additional checks.
I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint about the irresponsible lending.
The total amount to repay 
The original agreement was for 4 x £336 and the total amount was £1,344. So that was less 
than double the loan capital of £750.
In an email between Mr G and FOL in December 2022, I have seen that FOL has 
summarised the repayment plan (originally made in April 2022) and which Mr G was on  
£50 for 30 months to cover the £1500 starting from 01/05/2022 till 01/10/2024 the 
first day of every month
As FOL is aware that it cannot charge more than double the original loan amount lent then it 
will not charge him over £1,500. And as Mr G has not paid this sum then I do not consider 
that Mr G has anything to complain about on this point as he has not suffered the loss or the 
issue about which he has complained  namely that FOL has charged too much. Mr G has 
repaid hardly anything on the loan he signed up to in January 2022. 
The way that Mr G says he has been treated
In December 2022, Mr G sent to us a screenshot of an email between him and FOL 
(undated but I understand from other records Ive seen this was around November 2022) 
and he explained:
This is an email response from this firm after I had advised them several times of myvulnerable nature and precarious view on life. I have a payment arrangement set up 
and have made payments to this as and when I can, yet they continue to threaten 
and abuse.
I have asked them to stop and for any relief on the loan and they have refused and 
now this.....
The loan amount was £750 and I have now been told I have to pay back double that 
with absolutely no help or assistance.
The screenshot to which Mr G refers, was of a partial email and it refers to the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) chapter 2:10.3, and that is a 
part of CONC with which I am familiar. I have kept this CONC chapter in mind when 
reviewing the correspondence and the contact between the parties for the past year. 
FOL has informed us in March 2023 that:
The debt has not been sold, the agency we use simply collect the outstanding debt 
on our behalf.
A new repayment plan was put in place for [Mr G] when he notified us he was 
experiencing financial difficulty. Please see the email trail attached.
So, I have reviewed that email trail carefully. That covers the period 4 December 2022 to 
27 February 2023. And I have been sent schedules of the other emails and contact FOL has 
had with Mr G during all the lending relationship. From those I have noted the frequency of 
the contact with Mr G. I have listed here some of the ones that stand out as they express 
Mr Gs concerns: 
This is unacceptable, I have made payments in good faith and yet I am still 
constantly harassed. This isnt good enough. 
And 
This is just fundamentally inaccurate. Have you read the correspondence? That 
payments have been made but you hadnt applied them to my account yet continued 
with increasingly aggressive letters and text messages?
FOL has answered to explain that maybe Mr G was confused  
Please note that the text and emails are reminders due to the payments in arrears 
and not the payments marked as paid.
 
At the time of your application, you did not make us aware that you were vulnerable 
or suffering from mental health.
We can confirm we are unable to stop these reminders as they are automated, and 
they will continue while your account is in arrears.  
In February 2023, FOL responded to a request from Mr G for a settlement figure but FOL 
explained that as he was in a repayment plan which was in arrears it was not able to provide 
Mr G with a settlement figure.However, in that same email FOL invited Mr G to complete an income and expenditure (I&E) 
sheet which had been sent to him so that it could assess the extent of his financial hardship 
and it could set up a new payment plan to suit his circumstances. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show me that Mr G did complete a new I&E sheet for FOL. 
Overall, having seen the number of emails sent to him to remind him he was due to pay or to 
ask for payment when it was late, I do not consider it to have been excessive. A balance 
needs to be struck between a lender contacting a person owing money too often and at the 
same time actively pursuing a debt legitimately owed. I consider that the evidence I have 
had from both parties lead me to think that FOL achieved that balance and when needed 
offered additional assistance.
 
I have not seen evidence of aggressive, abusive or threatening contact by FOL to Mr G and 
I think assistance was offered. I do not consider that FOL has treated him in a poor way. 
I do not uphold this part of Mr Gs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman