DRN-4224661
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the way American International Group UK Limited (hereafter AIG) 
handled her travel insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs S booked a week-long trip to a country Ill call X and bought a single trip travel 
insurance policy underwritten by AIG to cover it. Mrs S departed as planned, but extended 
her trip when her brother who was also in X passed away. 
Mrs S claimed for the additional costs shed incurred and later complained about the way her 
claim was being handled. She felt shed provided AIG with all the information it had needed, 
and said it was consequently delaying matters.  
AIG looked at what had happened and explained it needed some more information from 
Mrs S; namely confirmation from her late brothers doctor that the death wasnt a result of a 
pre-existing medical condition (PEMC). However, AIG acknowledged it had taken longer 
than it should have to progress the claim and ask for this confirmation, so it offered to pay a 
total of £250 compensation to reflect that. 
Unhappy, Mrs S referred her complaint to this service and also provided AIG with the 
additional information it had asked for. Mrs S told us that she wanted all of her costs 
reimbursed and compensation for the mental and financial stress shed been put through. 
Our investigator thought AIGs subsequent request for additional information was reasonable 
and the £250 offered was fair compensation for the delays. Mrs S disagreed however and 
said £250 wasnt reasonable given the distress shed been caused. She also explained AIG 
had since gone on to settle some of her claim but not all of it, and said she remained 
unhappy with the amount received. 
Our investigator advised that as no agreement was reached on this complaint the matter 
would be passed to an ombudsman to decide. They also confirmed the recent settlement 
amount from AIG wouldnt form part of this complaint, and Mrs S would need to raise her 
concerns about that via a separate complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S clearly feels very strongly about what has happened. Id like to thank her for taking the 
time to set out her complaint and Im sorry to read about the death of her brother. While I 
have considered everything, this decision will not address every single point or argument 
raised. It will focus on those matters I consider central to its outcome and my findings are as 
follows: 
AIG has a responsibly to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
The travel insurance policy Mrs S bought didnt provide cover for PEMCs. This was 
detailed in the policy documentation, and the policys definition of a PEMC was given 
as any illness, disease or injury suffered by you, your relative, business associate, or 
travelling companion. 
Mrs S extended her trip because her brother passed away. Although I empathise with 
how difficult a time that event must have been for her, given the points noted above I 
dont think it was unreasonable of AIG to seek confirmation that her brothers death 
was not the result of a PEMC.
I appreciate why Mrs S felt the death certificate shed already provided showed the 
death hadnt been the result of a PEMC. But again, for the reasons already given 
above, I dont think it was unreasonable of AIG to request confirmation of that by way 
of medical evidence.
AIG could have requested that information sooner however and it accepts this. AIGs 
delays did cause Mrs S additional distress during what was an already difficult time, 
and it was right of it to acknowledge this impact and offer compensation.
Compensation is intended to be a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact of a 
businesss mistake on someone. It is not intended to be used as a punitive measure, 
and in my opinion the £250 AIG has already offered in settlement of this complaint 
represents a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact its mistake caused. 
Putting things right
AIG has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair 
in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that American International Group UK Limited trading as AIG UK should pay 
£250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman