DRN-2236781
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs Y complain that Blue Insurance Limited, an insurance intermediary, mis-sold 
them an annual, multi-trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2020, Mr S and Mrs Y booked a family trip abroad. They were due to leave the 
UK on 5 April 2020 and return on 16 April 2020. In February 2020, Mr S and Mrs Y bought 
an annual, multi trip policy from Blue Insurance Limited via a price comparison website.    
On 2 March 2020, Mr S contacted Blue Insurance and asked whether his policy covers 
cancellation of flights and travel disruption. Blue Insurance told him that travel disruption and 
flight cancellation are optional extras and, if he wanted to add these to his policy, hed have 
to pay an additional premium. 
On 15 March 2020, the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel to Mr S and Mrs Ys intended destination due to Covid-19 (Coronavirus). 
That advice remained in place for the period of Mr S and Mrs Ys planned trip.
On 15 March 2020, Mr S told Blue Insurance that he wanted to cancel their flights and hotel 
bookings and wanted a refund. He asked Blue Insurance about how he should do that.   
Blue Insurance told Mr S that his policy doesnt cover travel disruption and that he should 
contact the airline or travel agent. I understand that the airline cancelled the flights. 
Mr S and Mrs Y say that theirs was the premier plus policy and the documentation they 
received from Blue Insurance said unequivocally that they had cancellation cover up to 
£5,000, so they expected the policy to cover what happened here. They say that any 
reasonable lay person would think that they were covered by the policy. Mr S and Mrs Y say 
that Blue Insurance mis-sold the policy to them. They want a refund of the premium and 
compensation for mis-selling. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Blue Insurance 
had mis-sold the policy to Mr S and Mrs Y. 
Mr S and Mrs Y didnt agree with the investigator. Mr S said that the airline cancelled their 
flights and that they were not described as disrupted. He said that when he bought the 
policy there wasnt an option to add cover for disruption, nor anything to explain what that 
meant. Mr S said that the link to the policy wording was in the smallest font in order to 
obfuscate and the policy doesnt even define cancellation. He said that the cover wasnt 
clear. 
The investigator explained that Blue Insurance wasnt the insurer and she remained of the 
view that it had provided Mr S and Mrs Y with enough information. There were further 
exchanges between Mr S, Blue Insurance and the investigator, which I wont set out here. 
Mr S asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Blue Insurance is an insurance intermediary, not the underwriter of Mr S and Mrs Ys policy. 
In this decision, Im looking at whether Blue Insurance treated Mr S and Mrs Y fairly and 
reasonably and Im not looking at what the underwriter did or may do in relation to any claim 
or its wording of the policy. 
I understand that Mr S and Mrs Y havent made a claim against their policy, as Mr S is 
reluctant to fill in the claim form. Its not clear to me whether Mr S and Mrs Y received 
refunds from the airline and hotel provider. I note that in this complaint, Mr S and Mrs Y dont 
ask for flight and hotel costs but do ask for a refund of the premium and compensation for 
mis-selling.  
Blue Insurance didnt provide Mr S and Mrs Y with advice about the policy. So, under the 
relevant rules and industry guidance, it didnt have a responsibility to ensure that the policy 
was suitable for them. However, it did need to give Mr S and Mrs Y enough information to 
decide if the policy was right for them. 
Im not upholding Mr S and Mrs Ys complaint because:
Blue Insurance provided Mr S and Mrs Y with an insurance product information 
document at the point of sale. I think that document was clear and not misleading. 
Near the top of the document, it said:
This document does not describe the full terms of the Travel Insurance policy. 
Complete pre-contractual and contractual information on the product is provided in 
the policy documentation.
Under the heading What is insured?, it says that theres cover up to £5,000 for 
cancellation and curtailment. But that doesnt mean that all circumstances leading to 
cancellation or curtailment are covered under the policy:  Mr S and Mrs Y would need 
to read the terms and conditions of the policy for further information about that. 
Blue Insurance also sent Mr S a welcome letter. In that letter, it provided Mr S with a 
link to access his policy documents and view his policy details. I dont agree that the 
link was obfuscated. In that letter, Blur Insurance recommended that Mr S read the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
The policy document set out the circumstances in which a claim for cancellation or 
curtailment is covered. It also contained a travel disruption section and said it was 
(only operative if indicated in the validation certificate and appropriate premium 
paid).
In March 2020, when Mr S asked Blue Insurance whether his policy covered flight 
cancellations and travel disruption, it told him about the policy upgrade and that hed 
have to pay an additional premium.  
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Blue Insurance gave Mr S and Mrs Y     
enough information to decide if the policy was right for them at the outset and 
answered Mr S questions clearly. There are no grounds on which to conclude that 
Blue Insurance mis-sold the policy to Mr S and Mrs Y. So, I dont uphold their 
complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S and Mrs Ys complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman