DRN-3230445
The complaint
Mrs C complains that the loan she had from Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as 
Moneyboat) was unaffordable to her.
What happened
Mrs C borrowed £200 from Moneyboat on 24 November 2016 and was due to repay it over 
six months. The highest monthly repayment was £58.54 and the last payment was due on 
15 May 2017. The loan was settled on 13 October 2017.
Mrs Cs representative says she was already paying off multiple loans and credit 
agreements at the time of the lending. It says her credit history showed missed payments 
and defaulted accounts and further lending was unsustainable.
Moneyboat says it asked Mrs C for details of her income and expenditure and checked her 
credit file. It says it found Mrs Cs expenditure to be understated compared with its checks, 
so it adjusted the figures accordingly. Moneyboat says that, based on this analysis, Mrs C 
had sufficient disposable income to make the repayments. It adds that it was satisfied its 
checks were proportionate and its lending was not irresponsible.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He found that Moneyboats 
credit check showed clear signs that Mrs C was already struggling to manage her money 
and that she was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay an additional loan. He 
recommended that any payments above the principal should be refunded with 8% simple 
interest, and that negative information about the loan should be removed from Mrs Cs credit 
file.
Moneyboat responded to say, in summary, that it considered its checks were proportionate 
and the loan met the requirements built into its automated lending system. It added that it is 
unrealistic to review every line of a credit file given the nature of the market and that Mrs C 
was within her credit limits and her financial difficulties appeared historical except for a 
couple of more recently delinquent accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish the lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting a risk of repeated refinancing 
signalling that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish 
whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint.
When Mrs C applied for the loan, Moneyboat asked her about her income and expenditure 
and carried out a credit check. As this was Mrs Cs first loan and the repayments were less 
than 5% of her declared income, Im satisfied Moneyboats checks were proportionate. 
The credit check showed:
Two defaulted accounts from 2012 and 2013;
14 other active accounts
oFour home credit accounts:
Two had become delinquent in July 2016;
Two were behind with payments;
oThree short-term loans:One was behind with payments;
oThree credit cards all of which were within their limits;
oTwo current accounts, one of which was at its overdraft limit;
oTwo recently opened telecoms accounts;
A monthly credit commitment of at least £350.
I acknowledge that Moneyboat says the loan met the criteria built into its system, however I 
find there were clear indications that Mrs C was in current financial difficulties and her issues 
were not purely historic:
Five accounts were behind with payments;
Mrs C was actively borrowing from other short-term lenders;
She was already committed to spending over 30% of her declared income on credit;
So, based on the information Moneyboat collected, Im satisfied there were clear indications 
Mrs C was already struggling to manage her money and further lending was unsustainable. 
Indeed, I note Mrs C didnt make any payments towards the loan until March 2017.
In summary, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint and Moneyboat should put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as 
Moneyboat) should:
Add up the total amount of money Mrs C received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mrs C made should be deducted from this amount.
oOverpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file related to the loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest. Moneyboat 
must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman