DRN-3129420
The complaint
Miss A and Mr T complain that Santander UK Plc would not allow them to change their 
mortgage from interest only to repayment in 2015.
What happened
Miss A and Mr T took out an interest only mortgage with Santander in 2007. The mortgage
was for a term of 19 years and 9 months.
In 2015, Miss A and Mr T tried to change the mortgage to a repayment mortgage. But they
say that Santander refused to agree to this on the basis that their home was of non-standard
construction and the adjoining property had not been repaired.
In February 2018 Miss A and Mr T took out a fixed rate product of 1.99% until May 2021.
Miss A and Mr T complained to Santander in 2019. But Santander didnt uphold their
complaint.
Miss A and Mr T moved house in 2021 and redeemed their mortgage with Santander,
incurring an early repayment charge (ERC).
Our investigators view
Our investigator felt that Santander hadnt treated Miss A and Mr T fairly. Santander had
said that Miss A and Mr T hadnt made an application to move to a repayment mortgage in
2015. But her investigations showed that Miss A and Mr Ts broker had obtained information
from Santander that indicated that it wouldnt accept an application to change to a
repayment mortgage as the adjoining property was of non-standard construction and was
not repaired. She felt that this was why Miss A and Mr T hadnt put in a full application. But
she said that under the transitional arrangements in place for mortgages taken out prior to
April 2014, it would have been open to Santander to agree to the application if it felt it was in
Miss A and Mr Ts best interests to do so. So she felt that Santander should have given a
more helpful response to the broker. And she felt that it should repay the ERC Miss A and
Mr T had incurred when they redeemed their mortgage with Santander plus associated costs
and £300 for their trouble and upset.
Our investigator also said that Miss A and Mr T had complained about being on a high
standard variable rate at the time. But she felt that they always had the option to convert to
another product, and didnt need to move to a repayment mortgage to get a better interest
rate. This was confirmed by the fact that they had applied for a new fixed rate in February
2018. So she didnt uphold this part of their complaint.
Santander didnt agree with our investigators view, and so the complaint was 
referred to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to both parties on 13 September 2021. I said, in summary:
When our investigator reviewed this complaint Santander explained that it was 
unable to find evidence that Miss A and Mr T made a formal application to move to a 
repayment mortgage in 2015. So, as part of her consideration of the complaint, the 
investigator contacted Miss A and Mr Ts broker for further information. 
The broker explained that Miss A and Mr T were looking to change from interest only 
to a repayment mortgage in 2015. He said that they had decided to re-mortgage with 
another lender but this application was ultimately declined. This was due to the fact 
that the adjoining property was of non standard construction and had not been 
repaired.  Similarly, a second application to another lender also failed. 
The broker also explained that Santander would not accept an application from an 
existing client to make changes to the mortgage via a broker. But he explained that 
he did query Santanders position via his Santander representative. And he 
supplied this service with copies of the correspondence with that representative. 
I saw from this correspondence that the broker had explained that the property was 
of non standard construction, and that his client had had the necessary modifications 
carried out, but that the adjacent property had not been modified. And he asked 
whether this was something that Santander would consider. 
Santanders representative responded to say that Santander would lend on this type 
of non standard property provided that the modifications had been carried out. And 
she said that she believed both properties had to have been modified to be 
acceptable, but that she would check and come back to him. She subsequently 
emailed again and said that the property could be considered if the repair scheme 
used was one of two specific schemes. 
As our investigator explained, when the mortgage market review (MMR) came into 
effect in 2014 transitional arrangements were put in place for borrowers who had 
taken out their loan prior to April 2014 and where certain other conditions were met. 
Essentially, these transitional arrangements would allow a lender to disregard the 
stricter requirements put in place following MMR if it felt it was in the borrowers best 
interests to do so. 
Taking account of these transitional provisions, our investigator felt that Santander 
could have given Miss A and Mr T a more helpful response. But my provisional view 
was that I didnt agree. I said this as the email from the broker to Santander that I had 
seen did not make it clear that Miss A and Mr T were existing Santander customers. 
And the transitional arrangements would only apply to existing customers. So my 
provisional view was that I didnt find it reasonable to say that Santander should have 
taken account of the transitional provisions in its response to the broker. 
I appreciated that Miss A said that she contacted Santander personally about this 
matter, and it confirmed that it would not allow them to convert to a repayment 
mortgage due to the construction of the neighbouring property. But the contact notes 
Santander had supplied did not record this conversation. On balance, I was 
persuaded that the notes would have recorded a conversation about moving to a 
repayment mortgage if this had taken place at that time. So this didnt change my 
provisional decision. 
I agreed with our investigator that Miss A and Mr T would always have had the option 
to convert to a different product on their mortgage, and that they didnt need to move 
to a repayment mortgage to get a better interest rate (although this might have been 
subject to other factors such as credit history). This was shown by the fact that they did move to a different rate in February 2018. So my provisional view was that I didnt 
uphold this part of their complaint either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A and Mr T do not agree with my provisional decision. They say in summary that their 
re-mortgage request in 2015 was denied on the basis of the neighbouring property before 
they got to the point when they would have applied officially. And they say that they have 
evidence to prove that affordability would not have been an issue for the re-mortgage. They 
are unhappy that Santander originally gave them a mortgage knowing that the neighbouring 
property was of non-standard construction but then wouldnt let them change to repayment 
in  2017. And they say that Santander didnt offer them a better interest rate but that they 
had to find this themselves. They are also unhappy with the ERC they incurred when they 
moved house before their fixed term expired.
Santander has confirmed that it has nothing further to add to its previous submissions.
Ive carefully considered everything Miss A and Mr T have to say but, having done so, Ive 
not been persuaded to change my provisional decision. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, the exchange of emails between the broker and Santander didnt make it clear that 
Miss A and Mr T were existing customers of Santander. So Im not persuaded that 
Santander made an error when it explained its policy in relation to non-standard construction 
policies without taking account of the transitional provisions that would have applied to 
existing customers. 
Miss A and Mr T also say that Santander didnt offer them a better interest rate. But I am not 
persuaded that Santander was under any obligation to do so. I remain of the view that it was 
open to Miss A and Mr T to apply to convert to a different product at any point. And I am also 
persuaded that it was open to Miss A and Mr T to make lump sum payments to the 
mortgage, as they did on a number of occasions.
Miss A and Mr T are unhappy with the ERC they incurred when they moved house before 
their fixed term ended.  But Im satisfied that the ERC was in line with the terms of the 
product they took out in 2018. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Santander made 
an error by charging the ERC. And I dont require it to do anything further.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman