DRN-3748973
The complaint
Ms B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
irresponsibly gave her a credit card account and two credit limit increases that she 
couldnt afford.
What happened
In October 2015, Ms B applied for a credit card account with Barclaycard. She was given 
an initial credit limit of £400. The credit limit was increased to £800 in May 2016 and to 
£1200 in July 2017.   
In 2021, Ms B complained to Barclaycard to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Barclaycard ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ms B didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Barclaycard will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Ms Bs complaint is that Barclaycard made credit available that was unaffordable. Before 
providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances. 
Barclaycard has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit reference agency 
to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer at each stage of its lending. For the 
initial lending decision, Barclaycard considered the information that Ms B provided in 
support of her application. In this case Ms B told Barclaycard she enjoyed a good income 
and lived at home with her parents. The initial lending limit was modest and the minimum 
payments for that credit, if fully used, were also modest. 
And each of the subsequent credit increases were also for modest increases. And 
Barclaycard had given thought for how Ms B was managing her account in deciding the 
increases to the credit limit. Ms B had an almost perfect lending record with Barclaycard and 
was managing her account well throughout the increases to the credit limit. And Barclaycard 
performed credit checks on each occasion. And Ms Bs credit record was very clean at the 
time of the lending decisions; no defaults or CCJs etc. 
So, for the reasons given above, before the lending decisions, I think Barclaycard gathered a 
reasonable amount of evidence and information from and about Ms B about her ability to 
repay. Ive reviewed the information and evidence Barclaycard gathered. And, for the same 
reasons, Im satisfied that the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was 
likely to be affordable to Ms B. 
And for these same reasons, Im not persuaded that the way Ms B was managing her 
account or what Barclaycard could see of her management of other credit ought to have 
prompted it to have acted differently than it did. So,  I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly 
when approving the finance application.
I know that Ms B will be disappointed with my decision in itself and because she has put 
time and energy into her complaint. I want Ms B to know that we consider all cases on their 
own particular merits and I want Ms B to know that I considered all the submissions made in 
this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman