DRN-4400258
The complaint
I, a limited company, is unhappy a claim made under its motor fleet insurance policy was 
settled 50/50 by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva).
What happened
I has a commercial motor fleet policy underwritten by Aviva.
In May 2022, Is van was involved in an accident with a third-party vehicle. Aviva settled the 
claim on a 50/50 basis. I complained to Aviva as it says it wasnt a fault, so the claim 
shouldnt have been settled 50/50.
Aviva maintained the claim decision was correct, but they recognised Is broker hadnt been 
kept updated, so they offered £200 compensation.
As I remained unhappy, it approached this service.
Our investigator said it wasnt the role of this service to decide who was responsible for an 
accident. Instead, she said wed consider how the insurer reached their decision, and if that 
was reasonable. The investigator was satisfied Aviva had reached a reasonable conclusion, 
so they didnt recommend Aviva do anything further.
I didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained to I by our investigator, the role of this service isnt to decide who is responsible 
for an accident. That is the role of the courts. Instead, we consider whether the insurer has 
conducted a reasonable investigation and reached a reasonable conclusion based on the 
information they had.
Whilst I recognise I is unhappy Aviva took the decision to settle the claim rather than taking it 
to court, the policy terms allow Aviva to decide whether to defend or settle claims. This is 
very common in insurance policies. But when making that decision, wed expect an insurer 
to take into account the evidence and circumstances when doing so.
Aviva referred the circumstances of the accident to their appointed experts. They concluded, 
based on their experience and the circumstances, that at best the claim would be 50/50. So, 
Aviva settled it on this basis. I dont think Aviva acted unfairly by doing so based on the 
advice of the likelihood of success.
I do note that I says there were two employees in the vehicle at the time of the accident who 
could provide witness statements. Aviva recognised this, but also said that their impartiality 
could be called into question. And in the absence of third-party independent witnesses, 
Aviva concluded it would be unlikely able to defend things in court. 
Whilst I says the witnesses could be called into court, and cross examined, Aviva 
determined that it was unlikely to be successful based on the differing versions of events, 
and lack of independent witnesses neither connected to I or the third-party. So, Aviva 
decided to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis.
As outlined, its not our role to decide who was responsible for the accident. And I think the 
conclusions Aviva have reached, relying on the advice they received about the likely 
outcome based on circumstances, is fair and reasonable. So, whilst I recognise itll 
disappoint I, Im not going to ask Aviva to do any more.
However, Aviva recognised that it didnt update Is broker with what was happening in 
relation to the liability decision, and they offered £200 compensation for this. I think thats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances, so Im not going to direct them to increase this.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay I £200 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Aviva should pay I the £200 compensation already offered, if they 
havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman