DRN-2285341
The complaint
Miss R complains about Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Kia Financial Services 
(Kia Finance) restructuring of her balloon payment.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, including Miss Rs most recent email of 5 March 
2021, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Miss R acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
Im not persuaded that Kia Finance have done anything wrong. I think they gave ample 
notice that the agreement was due to come to an end in January 2020 as I can see the 
finance agreement explains that and that they sent 90- and 60-day notices to Miss R.
When Miss R contacted them in early December 2019 to refinance the balloon payment they 
didnt have to consent. This was a business decision they were entitled to take although I 
would expect them to be sympathetic to Miss Rs financial situation.
I think they were sympathetic as they agreed to refinance the payment and sent a modified 
agreement to Miss R. And when that agreement wasnt received in time they were prepared 
to extend that offer in February 2020. 
Kia Finance had already made significant efforts to try to get the modified agreement in 
place and I dont think it would be fair to suggest they should have chased the agreement. I 
think it was for Miss R to ensure it was received by the 1pm deadline or to send it by 
alternative means. Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence that signed agreement was 
received by Kia Finance by the new deadline.
Kia Finance have a responsibility to report consumer credit performances accurately to the 
credit reference agencies. I dont think there is sufficient information here to suggest theyve 
reported anything inaccurately and, overall, I think their actions have been reasonable. I 
dont think they need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman