DRN-2786513
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with how Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services 
(LRFS) handled her request to voluntary terminate her hire purchase agreement. 
Miss H has been represented by Mr M throughout her complaint. However, for clarity, Ive 
only referred to Miss H in this decision. 
What happened
Miss H entered into a hire purchase agreement with LRFS on 29 September 2016 to acquire 
a car. She wrote to LRFS on 22 April 2020 and explained she wanted to voluntary terminate 
her agreement. She also notified LRFS the car was damaged in two areas and accepted she 
was liable for this damage. As she didnt receive a response, she emailed to chase in      
July 2020. But it appears she emailed a dealership and then another incorrect email address 
rather than LRFS. The dealership team told her it would pass the email to the relevant area.  
Miss H didnt hear from LRFS, so she chased the dealership team again. She didnt hear 
back from it.
As Miss H was unable to get in touch with LRFS, she referred the issue to our service in 
August 2020. She said she wanted LRFS to refund five payments she had made since    
May 2020, she was unhappy LRFS had sent her a letter demanding the balance payment 
was paid, shed like compensation of £3,500 for storing the car and compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Our service contacted LRFS on 1 September 2020 and let it know Miss H had complained 
about it. LRFS explained it hadnt received a complaint before this and wanted an 
opportunity to look into the complaint. 
LRFS looked into what had happened and said it didnt receive a copy of the letter Miss H 
sent them, as it was delivered to their offices which were closed during the COVID-19 
pandemic. And it said the emails she had sent were sent to dealers, rather than LRFS. It 
said its collection partner would contact Miss H to schedule collection of the car.
Miss H said the car was scheduled to be collected on two occasions in early October 2020, 
but it wasnt. The car was then collected on 29 October 2020.
LRFS told our service its website explained a customer could fill in a web complaint or call 
them if they wanted to voluntary terminate an agreement at the time Miss H wrote to it. It 
said the email she sent went to new dealers wanting to join its network. It also said that the 
car couldnt be collected from the end of July 2020, due to their collection partner being 
closed between March 2020 and June 2020 and it only providing a limited service from    
July 2020. 
Miss H made a further complaint to LRFS in December 2020 about adverse information 
being reported to her credit file. She says she became aware of this following an application 
for credit which was declined. She also complained her representatives name was spelt 
incorrectly by LRFS and she wasnt contacted by LRFS, despite being told she would. 
LRFS sent Miss H a cheque of £200 for the incorrect information recorded on her credit file 
and the poor service it had provided. In February 2021, it confirmed it had removed all the 
adverse information from her credit file and apologised for this. It offered a further £200 for 
this error but Miss H didnt accept it.
In March 2021, LRFS issued its final response and agreed that it had made errors. It 
accepted it had mis-spelt Miss Hs representatives name, that there was a delay in 
collection of the car, it apologised for the poor service it had provided and offered to refund 
payments made between April 2020 and August 2020. It agreed to pay a further £500 and 
an additional £200 for the poor service and delay in collecting the car. And it refunded £494 
to reflect the overpayment Miss H had made after the car was sold. 
Miss H was unhappy with this offer and said she had a condition where stress causes her 
physical pain. She said compensation of £5,000 was more appropriate for the service LRFS 
had provided, as she had to take some days off work. She also said that the matter affected 
her credit file and she was declined credit as a result of the information recorded by LRFS. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought LRFS offer to put things right was 
fair. He accepted that whilst Miss H had followed the correct voluntary termination process 
by writing to LRFS, its offices were closed as a result of COVID-19. He acknowledged 
COVID-19 would have caused delays for LRFS in responding, due to it being an 
unprecedented time. He said the amount LRFS had offered was fair in respect of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Miss H and the adverse information being reported to 
her credit file.
Miss H said she had told LRFS about the impact to her and her health, so she didnt accept 
the offer of £500 for the overall distress and inconvenience caused. She also said that if the 
car was stored under a commercial agreement, £25 a day would be considered fair and 
reasonable. And she said she didnt think £200 compensation was acceptable for the 
information reported to her credit file. 
As Miss H remains unhappy, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the overall amount of compensation LRFS has offered to put things right. 
Having done so, I think the amount it has offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ive explained why below.
Voluntary termination
Miss H attempted to exercise her right to voluntarily terminate her agreement by writing to 
LRFS in April 2020. However, in March 2020, government guidance concerning COVID-19 
meant that LRFSs offices were closed for a period of time. This was outside the control of 
LRFS and as the office was closed, LRFS was unable to deal with post. I can see Miss H 
expected a short delay due to the impact of COVID-19. However, the office closures went on 
for longer than anticipated. 
As it hadnt picked up Miss Hs request to voluntarily terminate her agreement, LRFSs 
system notes show it issued a letter providing Miss H with her options as her agreement was 
coming to an end. When Miss H received this letter in July 2020, she sent emails, but they 
werent sent to LRFS. So again her request to voluntary terminate her agreement wasnt received. Given this, Im satisfied LRFS didnt do anything wrong when it provided Miss H 
with her options before the end of her agreement.
I appreciate Miss H says she didnt know what the correct email address to contact LRFS 
was. However, LRFS phone lines were, albeit with delays, available during this time. So 
Miss H could have called LRFS and voluntary terminated her agreement. In addition, LRFS 
website explained the steps a customer would need to take to voluntary terminate their 
agreement whilst their offices were closed. But Miss H didnt do this. Following the 
intervention of this service, LRFS was notified of Miss Hs intention to voluntarily terminate 
her agreement. It arranged to do this. 
Under normal circumstances, LRFS would have likely received Miss Hs voluntary 
termination by post and I would have expected it to discuss Miss Hs request once it 
received it. But, I need to consider the impact of COVID-19 on LRFS ability to do this. 
Having done so, overall I dont think LRFS did anything wrong in handling Miss Hs voluntary 
termination once it became aware of the request. Ive thought about happened before this. I 
think its quite clear there was a delay caused by LRFSs office being closed. But, in any 
event, LRFS refunded Miss H any payments she made to it from April 2020 and an 
overpayment she made. So LRFS made a refund as if Miss H had voluntarily terminated her 
agreement in April 2020 and so she hasnt suffered any financial loss. 
Thinking about all of this, I dont think LRFS needs to do anything further to put things right.
Collection of the car
Miss H says as a result of LRFS not voluntarily terminating her agreement, she had to store 
the car at her house. She says had the car been left on local authority owned land, The 
Removal, Storage and Disposal of Vehicles (Prescribed Sums and Charges etc) (Scotland) 
Regulations 2019, suggests that a reasonable cost for storing the car would be £25 per day. 
However, she accepts that this only applies to commercial agreements. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I consider relevant law and legislation, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and what I consider to be good 
industry practice. In this case, Miss Hs agreement isnt a commercial agreement, so the 
regulation shes referred to doesnt apply. In any event, I also consider what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. So Ive thought about whether I think LRFS did anything 
wrong when it collected the car in late October 2020 and the impact of this to Miss H. 
LRFS has told our service their collection agent was closed between March 2020 and June 
2020, as a result of the restrictions set out by the government due to COVID-19. It confirmed 
its collection agent could only provide a limited service from July 2020. I appreciate that 
other cars hadnt been collected for a period of around three months due to the impact of 
COVID-19, so this would have reasonably caused a backlog and caused a delay in the 
collection of Miss Hs car. This isnt something I think would be fair to hold LRFS responsible 
for. However, LRFS system notes show it only told its collection agent to collect the car on 
26 September 2020. They also show it told Miss H the car would be collected on 5 October 
2020, but it wasnt collected until 29 October 2020. 
Given that LRFS was aware it needed to arrange collection of the car on 1 September 2020, 
but it didnt arrange this at the time, I think LRFS caused a delay of around three weeks. It 
inconvenienced Miss H when it told her it would collect the car, but it wasnt collected. I also 
acknowledge that Miss H looked after the car for longer than she anticipated. But, I need to 
consider that, as far as Im aware, it didnt cost Miss H anything to store the car. So I dont 
think reimbursing her £25 a day would be fair. I think the £200 LRFS has offered for the 
service received and the delay is fair and reasonable. Credit file
Ive looked at LRFS system notes to understand what action LRFS took, in respect of 
ensuring accurate information was reported to credit reference agencies about Miss Hs 
account.
In this case, LRFS accept it made an error when it initially reported to credit reference 
agencies that there was an outstanding balance owed by Miss H, under her hire purchase 
agreement. It said the subsequent error was caused due to the credit reference agencies. 
However, its system notes dont reflect this. These confirm an internal error led to the two 
credit reference agencies reporting inaccurate information for around five months. Miss H 
says this was all three credit reference agencies but hasnt provided any information to 
support this. On balance, given that the system notes were made at the time the requests 
took place, I think its likely an internal error led to two out of the three credit reference 
agencies not being updated.
Ive considered whether I think the offer LRFS has made to put things right is fair, 
considering the circumstances. 
Miss H has explained the adverse information to her credit file by LRFS resulted an 
application for a mobile phone being declined. She says she has no supporting or 
documentary evidence of this. But, she says she had no other negative information on her 
credit file. Miss H hasnt provided us with a copy of her credit file at the time and neither has 
she got any information which shows any lending applications were declined. So whilst I 
accept the adverse information was reported to her credit file, I havent seen enough to 
make me think its most likely this led to any lending applications being declined
Overall, I accept LRFS reporting incorrect information to credit reference agencies for 
around five months caused Miss H distress and inconvenience. It also meant Miss H had to 
complain twice to LRFS in order for her credit files to be updated. Having said this, I havent 
been provided with enough information to show this adverse information caused Miss H any 
financial loss. So I think LRFS offer to pay Miss H £200 for the adverse information it 
reported during this period of time is fair.   
Distress and inconvenience caused
Once LRFS was made aware of Miss Hs complaint in September 2020, it was also made 
aware she suffered from a health condition which is exacerbated by stress and anxiety. Miss 
H has mentioned the impact to her health as a result of the issues Ive mentioned above. 
However I think the overall compensation LRFS has offered for the poor service it provided 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
I accept LRFS caused a delay when it didnt arrange for collection of the car. And Im 
satisfied it reported incorrect information to Miss Hs credit file for a number of months. I also 
think its service could have been better overall  and LRFS doesnt dispute this. For these 
reasons, LRFS offered to pay Miss H a total of £900 compensation. It has already paid Miss 
H this amount.
I appreciate Miss H feels strongly that LRFS should pay around £5,000 compensation for the 
impact to her health. And I note that the matter has gone on longer for Miss H, as she initially 
requested to voluntary terminate the agreement in April 2020  but this wasnt received by 
LRFS until September 2020. So Ive only considered the distress and inconvenience caused 
after this date. 
Having thought about whats happened after this date, I dont dispute that the errors LRFS made caused Miss H distress and inconvenience. I note Miss H hasnt provided any 
information to support any additional medical attention shes had to have as a result of the 
errors LRFS made. So, I think overall compensation of £900, in addition to the financial loss 
that LRFS has paid, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I dont require LRFS to 
make any further payments for the distress and inconvenience it caused Miss H.
My final decision
My final decision is that the amount Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial 
Services has already paid Miss H is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2021. 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman