DRN-3057150
The complaint
Miss C was unhappy as she said Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
recorded a false claim against her car insurance policy increasing insurance premiums on 
her renewal price.
What happened
Miss C contacted LV to make a maintenance query as she had noticed a warning light on 
her dashboard. She explained she had also touched a loose wire to see if this made a 
difference, which it didnt. As such Miss C contacted her motor vehicle insurance provider, 
LV to find out if this was something her insurance would cover. She claims the LV advisor 
recorded her enquiry as an accident and says they were very aggressive in pursuing it as 
such. She says that due to LV recording the query as an accident or claim this has increased 
her insurance premium renewal quotes due to it being recorded on the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE). 
CUE is a centralised insurance database of motor, home, and personal injury incidents. Miss 
C says she has had problems getting her enquiry removed from CUE where she says it has 
been incorrectly recorded as an accident and claim rather than general maintenance of her 
car. She says the staff at LV were rude to her and dismissive and she had to do a lot of 
chasing up herself, emailing them several times.
LV said it was correct to initially record the enquiry on CUE as any claim or incident must be 
recorded on the database. It says Miss C initially intended to make a claim on her policy so 
they were right to the record her call as such and have only deleted the entry from CUE in an 
attempt to handle her complaint. 
Miss C says some important calls and parts of calls are missing from the call recordings 
supplied by LV, including one where she was told the entry to CUE had not been removed. 
Miss C says she thinks this is why her premiums have increased.  
Miss C is also very worried that even if the entry has been removed from CUE it may have 
impacted the algorithms used to calculate her insurance costs and this will mean her quotes 
will be higher in the future.
LV apologised to Miss C and offered her £200 compensation due to how the claim was 
initially handled as they have acknowledged they didnt follow their correct internal process 
to reject the claim, and some of the calls could have been handled better. They have also 
offered her £30.96, which is the difference between two renewal quotes she received.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said LV hadnt done anything wrong and 
their proposed offer was a fair one. He considered that insurance quotes can change daily 
due to many factors and the lower price Miss C had found online included a new customer 
introductory discount. Our investigator also considered the value of any award we would be 
likely to make for the distress and inconvenience Miss C encountered due the call handling 
of some of Miss Cs contacts with LV. Our awards are usually modest and would not be 
more than Miss C has already been offered in these circumstances. 
Miss C disagreed with our investigators view and requested her case be looked at by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Miss C feels very strongly about her complaint but I do not uphold it and think LV 
have acted fairly and reasonably and Ill explain why.
Miss C is concerned LV incorrectly recorded her complaint as an accident and they have not 
been honest about removing this entry from the CUE database. LV explained they were not 
able to provide Miss C with a copy of the CUE database as it is not theirs to share, which is 
correct. However LV did explain to Miss C how she could request a copy of her data directly 
through the Motor Insurers Bureau (MIB) and sent her a link to the MIB data subject access 
request form so she could obtain this herself. 
LV have also supplied recordings of the calls between themselves and Miss C. I have 
listened to these recordings and can see that in the first call Miss C made she explained 
what had happened and there was a discussion around a claim and whether it would be 
accepted or not. At this point LV recorded this on their system and on CUE. I think this is 
standard practice across the insurance industry, so I see no issue with what LV did here. 
Once it became apparent Miss C was not making a claim under her insurance policy the 
incident was closed with her No Claims Discount being unaffected, and this is apparent in 
the CUE screen LV have provided. Ive also seen LVs internal screen which shows no 
claims on the LV system. It is clear LV have removed the incident from CUE. 
LV also explained to Miss C how insurance premiums can be affected by many different 
external events, including the weather, which was the example they gave. I understand how 
it may have appeared to Miss C when she saw her renewal premiums were higher than they 
had previously been but I think LV have explained why this was the case and I can see they 
have removed the entry from her CUE record. 
Miss C has also stated she believes certain calls and parts of calls are missing and have not 
been provided by LV, including one where she was told the entry had not been removed 
from CUE. I cannot say for certain that LV have provided all the call recordings and evidence 
however there does not seem to be any gaps in the evidence supplied, nor do any 
recordings appear disjointed or edited. I am satisfied LV have provided all call recordings, 
and in the event that any are missing I am satisfied the incident has been removed from 
CUE.
I agree with our investigator and consider LVs offer to Miss C of £200.00 plus £30.96 for the 
difference between two renewal quotes she obtained to be a fair one. This is because I am 
satisfied LV has done what it should to resolve any financial detriment Miss C may have 
experienced from the incident, as it was correctly recorded, then removed from CUE, 
therefore any award I may consider making would be regarding the inconvenience imposed 
upon Miss C from the initial call handling. I have considered this and I would not make an 
award higher than that which Miss C has already been offered so I am not going to ask LV to 
do anything further than pay Miss C the £230.96 they have already offered to do in 
recognition of her distress and inconvenience 
My final decision
For the reasons I have outlined above it is my final decision that Miss Cs complaint is not 
upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October 2021.
 
Sarah Scott
Ombudsman