DRN-1870551
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about Fidelius Ltd's involvement in the transfer of his pension which led to 
him missing out on a particular annuity rate.
What happened
Mr C wanted to transfer his pension held with Curtis Banks (CB) to Legal and General (L&G) 
in order to buy an annuity with them. Mr C was assisted by his financial adviser Fidelius. 
L&G issued an annuity quote on 28 January 2019 offering an annuity rate of 5.035% which 
was guaranteed until 4 March. The funds from Mr Cs pension were received by L&G after 
this date, so Mr C lost out on the offered annuity rate. The annuity rate he eventually got was 
4.842%.
Mr C says the transfer was unnecessarily delayed, so he wants to be compensated for the 
difference in his annuity income.
Our investigator considered the involvement of all three parties (CB, L&G and Fidelius) to 
see whether they were responsible for Mr Cs loss. She found that both CB and L&G had 
caused delays which in accumulation led to Mr C missing out on the higher annuity rate. She 
held them jointly responsible for Mr Cs losses and asked each of them to pay 50% towards 
the overall compensation. She didn't think Fidelius had done anything wrong. The other two 
firms disagreed with the investigator's view and so the complaints were referred to me for a 
final decision.
When reviewing the complaints and the involvement of all firms I felt that Fidelius could have 
likely mitigated Mr C's losses. I said in my view Fidelius should have informed CB of the 
annuity deadline and if they had done so, it likely could have been met despite previous 
delays caused by the other parties.
I issued provisional findings in which I explained that I thought all three parties contributed to 
Mr C losing out on his annuity rate. I felt it was fair that each of the three parties involved 
paid a third of the compensation recommended.
Fidelius disagreed with my findings. They felt the responsibility for Mr C's losses lay with 
L&G and CB.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I remain satisfied that 
the outcome I have reached in my provisional findings is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
The parties are familiar with the background of the complaint and the timelines are not in dispute, so Im not going to repeat everything in detail.
In my provisional decision I said:
On 28 February CB asked Fidelius whether Mr C wanted to wait for his income payment on 
6 March before transferring. Fidelius responded the same day that Mr C didnt want to wait 
and that the transfer should proceed immediately and without further delay. The next day, on 
1 March (a Friday), CB informed Fidelius that the funds would be sent out on Monday (4 
March). CB have said that they didnt know there was a deadline and if they had known they 
could have prioritised the request and/or sent the funds by CHAPS. And I agree with them. 
I appreciate Fidelius argument that CB knew the funds were used to buy an annuity and that 
annuity rates tend to only be guaranteed for a certain time. I also considered that CB knew 
there had been delays in the transfer process up to this point and that Fidelius said on 28 
February that they wanted the transfer to happen without further delay. However, CB 
transferred the funds two working days later which I think is reasonable. CB should have 
acted promptly, but they didnt know that there was a specific deadline which was only two 
working days away. I would have expected Fidelius to let them know about this either on 28 
February or at the very latest on 1 March when they were told that the transfer would happen 
on the day of the deadline. 
 Fidelius couldnt say for certain why they didnt mention the deadline. They said its likely 
that they assumed L&G had informed CB of the deadline and that they didnt expect CB to 
use a slower transfer method after delays had already occurred and after Fideliuss urgent 
demands. However, I dont think they reasonably could have relied on this. As Mr C's 
financial adviser I would have expected Fidelius to make CB aware of the imminent deadline 
and that Mr CB was to lose the annuity rate if the funds werent with L&G by 4 March. From 
what Ive seen they didnt make CB aware of this urgency.  And I have no reason to doubt 
that CB would have sent the funds by CHAPS if they had. 
In response Fidelius said they had completed all their responsibilities by 12 February when 
they had arranged for the SIPP to hold funds in cash to facilitate a quick transfer to L&G. 
And they had supplied all the relevant paperwork by then. From that point the full 
responsibility for completing the annuity purchase -in their view- lay with CB and L&G.
Fidelius said they had left the two other firms with sufficient time to complete the transfer. 
L&G knew when the rate expired and didn't tell CB. And CB knew there was a deadline (as 
all annuity quotes have deadlines) and failed to ask when it was. It was their responsibility to 
make sure they were working to the necessary deadlines and share this information with 
each other.
Fidelius says it wasn't their responsibility to make sure the other two firms did their jobs. 
However, they went beyond their responsibilities and chased the other two firms several 
times during the transfer process and told CB to act immediately and without delay.
Fidelius says CB told them the transfer would complete on 4 March which was within the 
timeline. CB didn't explain that the money would arrive later. The provisional findings say 
that Fidelius is to blame for not telling CB to use the same day transfer, however they didn't 
know CB was unaware of the deadline and there's no evidence to suggest the deadline 
would have been met anyway as despite their promise on 1 March, they didn't transfer the 
monies until 5 March.
Fidelius say it was reasonable for them to assume CB were liaising directly with L&G to 
ensure the annuity purchase was completed properly and that CB knew 4 March was a critical date and would ensure it would arrive with L&G in time.
I've carefully considered Fidelius's arguments but they don't change my decision. I've 
already accepted that the other two firms had sufficient time to complete the transfer and 
that they caused delays. And for this reason I hold them in part responsible for Mr C losing 
out on his preferred annuity rate.
However, Fidelius were acting as Mr C's financial adviser and were organising this transfer 
for him. I consider it was their responsibility to ensure the transfer was going smoothly (as far 
they could influence it). They chased L&G and CB several times and asked for updates 
which is in line which what I would expect. However, I don't think it was good enough for 
them to rely on assumptions that CB knew about the deadline. Just like the other two firms 
they knew there had been delays. The deadline was fast approaching and on 1 March they 
were informed the funds would be sent on 4 March.
Even if they thought CB knew the deadline, I think they should have reminded them at this 
point that the money had to be with L&G that same day. Of course it's possible that even if 
Fidelius had told CB about the deadline that they could have transferred it too late. But I 
think on balance it's more likely than not that CB would have prioritised the request in 
response rather than knowingly miss a deadline.
Its clear that neither party on their own caused Mr Cs losses. If L&G and CB hadn't caused 
delays for example, Fidelius's failure to inform CB of the deadline likely wouldn't have 
mattered. However, I remain satisfied that Fidelius failed to mitigate Mr C's losses when they 
didn't provide CB with important information at a crucial time. In summary, I still remain of 
the view that all parties contributed to Mr C losing out on his annuity rate. 
Putting things right
In summary I think every party made mistakes or caused delays which in accumulation 
caused Mr C to miss out on his annuity rate. I think its fair that they share responsibility in 
equal measures in these particular circumstances when it comes to compensating Mr C.  
All parties work should work in collaboration to put Mr C in the position he would be in had 
the transfer taken place as it should have. As explained above I think the delays caused by 
L&G and CB were about 8 working days in total, so I think the transfer could have happened 
on 20 February 2019. 
To avoid uncertainty of how to proceed, Ive asked L&G as the current annuity provider take 
a lead on calculating the losses. They should: 
A. Calculate what Mr Cs annuity would be had the transfer taken place on 20 February 
2019 (assuming the annuity was set up on the same basis as Mr Cs current annuity). 
 
B. Work out Mr Cs past losses the difference between the net annuity payments Mr C 
did receive and what he should have received since the annuity was set up to date. 
Add 8% simple interest p.a. to each monthly payment from the date it was due to the 
date of this decision. 
 
C. Work out future losses- calculate the cost of setting up an annuity (on the same basis 
of Mr Cs current annuity) for the difference in annuity which he lost out on. The 
purchase price of the annuity is Mr Cs gross future loss. This should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid presumed to be 20%. 
 
D. To acknowledge the trouble and upset caused to Mr C, Im recommending an 
additional payment of £200 in compensation. 
 
E. B+C+D is the total compensation payment. This divided by three is what Fidelius has 
to pay Mr C. L&G should inform Fidelius of their calculations. Fidelius should then 
pay Mr C as soon as possible.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I request Fidelius Ltd to pay Mr C the 
compensation as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Nina Walter
Ombudsman