DRN-4286955
The complaint
The executors representing the estate of the late Mrs C complained to U K Insurance 
Limited (UKI). They thought their claim for damage caused by a burst water pipe was 
unfairly declined under the propertys home insurance policy.  The executors also described 
the poor customer service they received.
What happened
The executors said following a prolonged cold period a pipe in the loft of the insured property 
burst causing extensive flooding and subsequent damage. The executors made a claim for 
the loss suffered and were unhappy when it was declined. They thought the service provided 
by UKI during the claim had fallen short of reasonable expectations due to excessive delays 
and poor communication.
UKI declined the claim as it said the executors hadnt adhered to an unoccupancy 
endorsement that had been applied to the policy. As the endorsement hadnt been complied 
with, UKI said the policy didnt cover escape of water and so declined the claim. The 
executors think the claim couldve been handled far more effectively to avoid unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought UKI had acted fairly and in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. He also thought the £300 compensation was fair for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. The estate of Mrs C disagreed, so the case has 
been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by considering whether I think UKI were fair to decline the claim. Due to the 
unfortunate circumstances an endorsement was added to the policy due to the length of time 
the property would be left unoccupied. I think it was reasonable to add the endorsement. An 
unoccupied property increases the risk for an insurer. So to allow insurance cover to 
continue, UKI placed certain obligations on the custodians of the property to reduce its risk in 
order that it could continue to insure the property.
The endorsements were explained to one of the executors when been added to the policy, 
and this was confirmed when written documents were shared. I appreciate the executors 
said they havent seen these documents, but realistically Im not sure what else Id expect 
UKI to do to ensure this information was explained. The call handler explained if there were 
any further questions that the executors should call UKI so it could answer these.
UKI declined the claim as it said one of the conditions of the endorsement hadnt been met. 
UKI explained that it is comfortable for the water system to be left on and not drained on one 
condition. The condition was if the home is centrally heated, the central heating system is 
left on at all times to maintain and air temperature of not less than 10c (50f).
UKI have provided evidence to show the home wasnt centrally heated and the water system 
hadnt been drained. UKI said the way the property was heated meant the pipes werent 
warmed up regularly. This led to the pipes freezing and bursting in the cold conditions. I think 
as the executors didnt meet this condition; I think UKI has been fair to decline the claim as 
the executors didnt meet their obligations under the policy. The risk of a claim was higher 
than the conditions in which UKI set out. 
Ive considered the customer service the executors received. They said the delays had 
caused more damage to the property and the damage wasnt mitigated. However, Ive read 
notes about what happened. I can see the executors were advised as soon as the loss 
adjustor was appointed to have the leak fixed. The home insurance policy would only cover 
the damage from the incident and not the fix of the leak. So, I think UKIs contractors were 
reasonable in providing this advice. As the sooner the fix was made the sooner further 
damage could be mitigated.
From this point, I can see the claim took around two and a half months to be formally 
declined. With any claim there will be a period of review and claim validation. This claim is 
no different. But, I think this period couldve been expected to be slightly longer than normal 
as further interviews and investigations were required to confirm whether the obligations of 
the policy endorsement had been met. However, I dont think the delays were significant and 
Im not sure theyd have had any detrimental impact on the property.
However, I do think UKI couldve managed the executors expectations better and provided 
better communication. It could possibly have provided a quicker outcome, allowing them to 
get on with the repairs themselves. UKI did apologise and paid £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. I appreciate this was a stressful time for all involved, but 
I do think this award is about right for the errors UKI has acknowledged.
Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint. I think UKI has been fair in declining the claim and I 
think the compensation offered is reasonable for the distress caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require U K Insurance Limited to 
do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman