DRN-3480059
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with the decision by Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to 
decline a claim she made on her pet insurance policy.
Red Sands are the underwriter of this insurance policy. For the purpose of my decision, any 
reference to Red Sands also includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mrs P and Red Sands. I wont repeat 
in detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mrs P took out a pet insurance policy for her dog in early 2013. In late 2021, Mrs Ps dog 
required treatment for arthritis. Mrs P made a claim on her policy but Red Sands declined it. 
They explained that the condition being claimed first was noted in 2015 and this policy only 
provided cover for a specific condition for 365 days from symptoms first being noted. 
Mrs P then raised a complaint with Red Sands on 1 November 2021. They didnt uphold her 
complaint. She remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our Service for an 
independent review. Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it 
be upheld. 
As Mrs P didnt accept the investigators recommendations, the complaint has been referred 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
When coming to my decision, my key consideration is whether Red Sands have fairly and 
reasonably considered the claim in line with the policy terms before deciding to decline it. Ill 
also be considering if theyve treated Mrs P fairly and reasonably overall.
What type of cover did this policy offer?
This policy offers whats known as time limited cover. Essentially, this means it offers cover 
for a fixed period of 365 days from a condition first being noted by the policy holder or a vet. 
The policy further states that this could be when symptoms first arose or when an accident 
happened. Once the 365 day period has passed, the condition, illness or injury being 
claimed for will no longer be covered. 
This is a normal term or associated restriction for these types of policies and Im satisfied 
that the policy paperwork made this term sufficiently clear to Mrs P.
When were symptoms first noted?
Ive carefully reviewed the available medical history of Mrs Ps dog and associated vet notes. 
The earliest reference Ive seen to possible symptoms is from February 2015. The notes 
state:
.right fore stiff, suspect may be early arthritic or due to possible weight
So, as early as 2015 theres mention of possible arthritis. However, as the notes also leave 
open the suggestion that the stiffness could be caused by the dogs weight - for fairness and 
completeness Ive then considered what happened after this.
Notes dated February 2016 state:
advised joint supplement and weight loss, as being overweight will make OA 
worse and reduce lifespan
Ive considered these comments alongside what Mrs P has said about this breed of dog 
being predisposed to arthritis in an email to Red Sands dated 1 November 2021.  
In 2018 a vet note has recorded: Assessment: managed arthritis.
In my opinion, this is the latest possible date at which the 365 days of cover for this condition 
started. Treatment may not have been required or claimed for at this point, but in line with 
the policy terms, the clock on the time limit for claims relating to this condition had started. 
Have Red Sands fairly considered the claim in line with the policy terms?
Mrs P argues that her dog didnt require treatment or wasnt diagnosed until 2021. But thats 
not the test here. The test, essentially; is when did her dog first have symptoms related to 
an illness or injury that later required treatment?
Its unfortunate that Mrs Ps dogs health worsened and treatment was required in 2021 but I 
find that Red Sands have fairly and reasonably treated Mrs P when considering the claim 
inline with the policy terms before declining it. I say this because - whether I take the 2015 or 
2018 dates, Mrs P has made a claim for treatment more than 365 days after symptoms were 
first noted. 
I know Mrs P will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve her dispute with Red Sands  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman