DRN-2162238
The complaint
Mr W complains that Ageas Insurance Limited increased the premium for his motor 
insurance policy excessively at renewal without any explanation of how the calculation was 
done.  
What happened
Mr W had a minor accident in February 2019 whilst reversing his car. The door of another 
car was damaged. In May 2019 Ageas sent him a renewal invitation. Mr W noted that his 
premium had risen from over £340 to over £554, despite paying for protected no claims 
discount (NCD). When he queried the increase, Ageas said it thought he was at risk of 
having another accident within 18 months. It said details of the premium calculation itself 
were confidential, but that Mr W was free to shop around for other insurance. 
Mr W didnt think that was acceptable. He said hed seen a report that said long-standing 
customers were often charged excessive premiums, as insurers assumed theyd remain 
loyal. In its response to his complaint, Ageas said it wasnt able to give Mr W commercially 
sensitive information. But it said the main factors affecting premiums in general were a cars 
rating, its mileage and the age of the policy holder - which were rated against the number of 
claims made and the amount paid on them. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ws complaint about Ageas. She said insurers can 
charge what they like for their policies as long as they apply their chosen pricing model 
consistently - and consumers are given the chance to shop around. She said Ageas sent the 
renewal invitation three weeks before the policy was due to end, so Mr W was able to do 
that. She said Ageas had provided us with details of how the calculation of his premium was 
done and she was satisfied that it had acted fairly. She said without Mr Ws protected NCD, 
his 2019 premium increase would have been higher.
Subsequently, Mr W told the investigator that he thought Ageass failure to disclose its 
pricing structure was an issue that should be reported to the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). He said he didnt have time to shop around in 2019, but that the following year hed 
found much cheaper cover with another insurer. That confirmed his view that hed been 
taken advantage of by Ageas. He also said he was complaining on behalf of others who, 
unlike Mr W, may not have access to computers in order to compare prices. And he queried 
the investigators comment that we arent able to deal with insurers general practices. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We think insurers are entitled to decide what risks they wish to cover and what price to 
charge for a policy. Theyre also entitled to decide how to load the basic premium for a 
policy (or make reductions to it) depending on the ratings factors they think are relevant. 
Mr W only had one minor accident. He thinks it isnt fair that premiums are loaded for drivers 
in his position, rather than those with convictions or who have made several claims. But as 
there was a fault claim on Mr Ws record, I think it was fair for Ageas to take it into account. I 
think its likely that other insurers would have done so too, as its common practice. 
Insurers usually say that consumers who have been involved in even one incident are more 
likely to be involved in further incidents than those who havent reported any incidents at all. 
So thats a factor which is applied generally when rating premiums. I think its fair to say that 
premiums are likely to be highest for those consumers who have made the greatest number 
of claims or have the most driving offences on their record. But that doesnt mean an 
increase in premium for one incident or one driving offence is unreasonable.    
Mr W objects to what he sees as the veil of secrecy around Ageass calculations of his 
premium. We dont think its unreasonable for insurers not to provide consumers with 
sensitive commercial data. Potentially, that could lead to their competitors becoming aware 
of the data and gaining a commercial advantage. But insurers usually provide sensitive data 
to us, on the basis that we will treat the information as confidential.
In this case, Ageas told us that various general factors (such as the age of the car) as well 
as the recent fault claim on Mr Ws record  resulted in the increased premium. It gave us 
details of data showing that the loading to the base premium was applied in line with its 
ratings factors. Although I understand why Mr W was shocked by the size of the increase, I 
dont think Ageas acted unreasonably. Mr Ws protected NCD was included in Ageass 
calculations. The rise in premium was significantly lower than it would have been otherwise.
I understand why Mr W feels strongly that loyalty should be rewarded. But in this case, I 
think its clear that the premium rose largely due to the accident Mr W had reported, not 
because he stayed with Ageas for a further year. Very attractive introductory offers for new 
customers are often available from insurers, and consumers are encouraged to shop 
around. Ageas invited Mr W to do that in 2019. Had he done so, I think hes likely to have 
found a cheaper quote then, despite the 2019 accident, just as he did in 2020. 
We cant consider whether other consumers would have found it hard to look at policies 
elsewhere, as this complaint is solely about Mr Ws situation. And as we arent the industry 
regulator, we cant deal with insurers general practices. Mr W may raise any general issues 
about Ageas (or any other insurer) with the FCA, but our remit is limited to specific 
complaints. And as I dont think Ageas acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Mr Ws complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I must ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman