DRN-3796951
The complaint
Mr F complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund payments he says he didnt make from his 
account.
What happened
Mr F disputes three card payments on 5 June 2022 to a retailer which came to just under 
£4,500. These were funded by top ups to his Revolut account from his current account at a 
different financial business. And in turn that account had received a loan of £10,000 Mr F 
said he didnt take out. This happened after he reports his mobile phone had been stolen.
Revolut said that it wouldnt be refunding this money. There had been no unauthorised 
access to his account detected. And the payments had been confirmed through the app. So, 
it thought Mr F had made them.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he thought it 
was unlikely that a third party could have accessed Mr Fs phone and then the app. And to 
have obtained the details required to make the transactions. Mr F had said that his phone 
was protected with a passcode. And a third party would also have needed to access the app 
using a different passcode to create a virtual card and make these payments. There was no 
evidence that the passcode had been changed before these payments. The details for the 
orders relating to the payments had Mr Fs correct details including his address and the 
related items were later collected. Mr F had asked that Revolut make a chargeback. The 
speed of response to that was affected because he had closed his account on 7 June 2022. 
But he thought that Revoluts decision then not to raise a chargeback was acceptable.
Mr F didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said he didnt accept our 
investigators view that a third party hadnt been involved. And he said that However 
unlikely, the fraudster gained access to the device by means I am unaware of and carried 
out the fraudulent activity. Mr F said he wanted an ombudsman to consider the evidence 
hed provided in relation to his other bank account and that this added weight to the 
involvement of a fraudster. Mr F stressed the impact that this was having on him personally.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute resolution and we arent a court. I wont be able to say 
exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely on the balance of 
probabilities. 
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, with security details. And if they werent authorised    
Mr F wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
The information is that a virtual card was set up from the app on 5 June 2022 and the 
payments were made using this card. Revolut has said that these payments required 
additional verification and that this was done through responding to push notifications 
through the app. Im satisfied from the payment log Ive seen that these payments were 
authenticated.
I appreciate that what happened on the Revolut account is part of what Mr F describes as a 
more complex fraud starting in the early hours of 5 June 2022. I need to make clear that I 
wont here be looking at what other financial businesses did and Im only looking at a 
complaint about Revolut. However, I note Mr F has raised consistent complaints with those 
other businesses. In any event I can see that there were multiple top up requests from the 
information Revolut has provided and that not all these were successful. And that further 
funds became available from a loan that Mr F has shown was credited to his other bank 
account. And hes also explained that a transfer limit at that bank prevented any more top 
ups being made. I also note his comments about the goods themselves and that these were 
collected from a store some distance from his home address and that he says he didnt do 
so. I know our investigator mentioned to him during a call that even if that was the case this 
wouldnt rule out him allowing someone else to collect the goods.
Mr Fs version of events isnt impossible. But from the response I quoted from him above he 
cant really explain what happened and how his details were discovered. I appreciate that 
fraudsters can be sophisticated and opportunistic, and Mr F has speculated about whether 
someone could have taken his phone while it was still unlocked or managed to bypass the 
passcode. And that once this happened his personal information was available through 
emails and his app passcode may have been guessed as it was based on personal 
information. He also wants me to look at the wider pattern of a loan being taken out in the 
early hours and used in this way. And that the goods purchased were in the main high value 
computer items. Hes stressed the lengths hes gone to report this to Action Fraud and to 
follow this through with all the businesses involved. Hes sure no one close to him would 
have done this and says that this had to be a third party.
Ive taken all that into account and understand his position on this complaint. But the 
question I need to address is whether its most likely that things happened in this way and 
that his details at Revolut were somehow compromised. And having balanced what he says 
with what I know from the evidence about how the transactions were made Im afraid that I 
dont think that the most likely explanation is that an unknown third party was able to make 
these payments without his consent.
Having made that finding I consider it reasonable that Revolut held Mr F responsible for the 
payments as being authorised. I can appreciate how disappointed he will be given whats at 
stake for him. If he doesnt accept my decision he remains free to pursue this matter in court 
subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman