DRN-2674076
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Bank of Scotland plc linked her account to her ex-husbands account.
What happened
In late 2019 and early 2020, Mrs C began receiving text messages from Bank of Scotland 
which were clearly meant for someone else, but who had the same surname as her. She 
was worried that the security of her account had been compromised, and that a fraudster 
might be trying to take over her account. But her greatest concern was that her violent ex-
husband might be behind it. She complained to the bank.
Eventually, the bank established that the text messages were meant for her son. She had 
opened his account for him when he was under 18, and so she had given her own phone 
number at the time. She was satisfied with that explanation, but not with how long it had 
taken to provide it. During the period of uncertainty, she had suffered extreme anxiety while 
she worried about the possibility of her ex-husband coming back into her life.
The banks investigation of the text messages also brought to light that Mrs Cs email 
address had been added to her ex-husbands account. This appeared to be left over from 
when they had had a life insurance policy, which had been cancelled when they divorced.
Bank of Scotland apologised and paid Mrs C £500 as compensation. But a few days later, 
she received a letter addressed to her ex-husband. She was very distressed by this, and so 
she complained to our Service. She has no complaint about the text messages; rather, this 
complaint is about the link to her ex-husbands account. She says that the bank had no 
business keeping her personal data for so long (considering how long ago the insurance 
policy had been cancelled).
Bank of Scotland objected to our Service considering Mrs Cs complaint about the letter, 
since it had not seen it before. I understand that Mrs C is complaining about the letter 
separately, and so our investigator and I have not considered it as part of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland says that it has removed any connection between Mrs Cs account and her 
ex-husbands account. It says that none of Mrs Cs contact details had been on his account, 
so there had been no risk that any correspondence or bank statements meant for her could 
have been sent to him by mistake. (The only thing that could have gone wrong would have 
been if correspondence intended for her ex-husband had been sent to her instead, which 
would not have been a breach of her data protection rights but of his.) It suggested that 
much of Mrs Cs complaint concerned matters which were perhaps better suited to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He thought that £500 was fair compensation. 
Mrs C disagreed. She wrote in detail about how this matter has affected her mental health. 
She suggested that the compensation should be £1,000. She asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered everything that Mrs C has told us  about the restraining order 
she obtained against her husband when she divorced him, about the counselling she has 
had since then, about the impact of what has happened, and about data protection law and a 
banks duty to its customers.
I have no doubt that Mrs C feels very strongly about what happened, and it is not in dispute 
that the bank was responsible. But I also take into account that much of Mrs Cs anxiety was 
about a worst-case scenario which did not in fact occur, and apparently could not have 
occurred (because the error was one-way  the bank shared her ex-husbands information 
with her, but his contact details were not on her account, and so the bank could not have 
inadvertently shared her information with him). I can only award compensation for things 
which actually happened or which had the potential to happen, not for hypothetical 
situations. And as I have said, I am not taking the letter into account here.
So I think that £500 is in line with the level of compensation I would have awarded if the 
bank had not already paid it, and so I will not require it to do more. This decision does not 
affect Mrs Cs separate complaint about the letter. (I do not know whether it would affect any 
complaint she might bring to the ICO about the same subject matter.)
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman