DRN-2271613
The complaint
Miss W says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma lent to her irresponsibly. 
She says that Satsuma did not carry out the relevant checks before lending. The loans 
adversely affected both her financial situation and her mental health. 
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Satsuma provided to Miss W between April and 
November 2018. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in the 
table below:
loan date taken instalments amount date repaid
1 13/04/2018 6 £500 21/06/2018
2 01/11/2018 12 £500 Outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
She said she would like to take the complaint further. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint and Ive explained why below.
Why I think Satsumas checks were proportionate for both of these loans
Ive seen a record of the information Miss W provided when she completed her loan 
application. Miss W said she had a monthly income of £1,200 and she had regular monthly 
outgoings of around £800 for loan one and £600 for loan 2. So, the monthly repayments of 
around £150 for loan 1 and £80 for loan 2 wouldve seemed affordable to Satsuma. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Satsuma was made aware of any 
financial problems Miss W mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. I can see the information it received from a credit 
reference agency didnt show that Miss W significant financial problems.
Miss W has said she wasnt in good shape financially and she had some other problems as 
well. But given that Satsuma approved only two loans I dont think it would have been 
reasonable for it to have looked much further into Miss Ws circumstances than it did. So, it 
wouldnt have considered these aspects of her circumstances, as they werent apparent in 
the information it had. I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to rely on the information it 
obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Satsuma did for these loans 
were proportionate. And I think its decisions to approve these two loans were reasonable. 
Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint about them. 
I appreciate Miss W may feel strongly about this and I hope my decision does not cause her 
any distress. I also hope my explanation is helpful. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman