DRN-4148383
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly recorded mortgage arrears on his credit 
file.  
What happened
Mr A has an offset mortgage with Barclays. He also has a mortgage current account. This 
allows Mr A to borrow in the form of an overdraft secured on his property.
Mr A made monthly mortgage payments by standing order. He says when interest rates 
increased in late 2021 he called Barclays regularly to ask what his next monthly payment 
would be. He says he was told he didnt need to change his standing order. 
In late 2022 Mr A received a letter saying hed missed a payment. He called Barclays which 
which said no payments had been missed but there was a shortfall, which Mr A paid. Mr A 
says the same thing happened the following month. He called Barclays and set up a direct 
debit for his mortgage payments.
Barclays recorded a missed payment on Mr As credit file in late 2022. Mr A says hes had to 
resign from a company directorship and it will be more difficult and expensive to re-mortgage 
and take out other credit. He provided evidence of a mortgage application being declined 
because of the adverse data. Mr A says Barclays can see that he had money available in his 
account for the payment. 
Our investigator said Barclays sent monthly statements to Mr A and letters when his monthly 
mortgage payment changed. Our investigator said Mr A made underpayments which 
resulted in arrears, and it was correct for this to be recorded on Mr As credit file. Our 
investigator said Barclays should have told Mr A how the arrears had come about when he 
first called in late 2022. He said Barclays should pay £100 for the upset caused by not doing 
so, which it agreed to do.
Mr A didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman re-consider the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has to make monthly payments (the contractual monthly payment or CMP) into his 
mortgage account. Barclays sends letters to Mr A when his CMP changes, such as when 
interest rates increase.
Mr A made his mortgage payments by standing order. He made underpayments in early 
2021. However, he had a credit on his mortgage account which Barclays used to cover the 
underpayments. Barclays wrote to Mr A in May 2021 telling him this. The letter also set out 
the CMP and suggested Mr A set up a direct debit. Mr A continued to make underpayments 
and the credit was used up by April 2022.
Although Mr A didnt increase his standing order payment, he did make additional payments 
in mid-2022, which brought the account into credit. This credit was used up by late 2022. 
In late 2022 Mr A received a letter from Barclays saying hed missed a payment. He says he 
had to speak to Barclays several times to find out what the problem was. Barclays says the 
first call handler wasnt able to explain what had happened and raised an internal task to 
confirm this. Mr A says if hed been given correct information hed have made the payment. 
He says the incorrect or unclear information on the calls overrode the correct information 
sent to him previously. 
It was unfortunate that Barclays didnt tell Mr A immediately what the problem was when he 
called in late 2022. But the letter Barclays sent to Mr A in December 2022 set out the 
payment amount owed. And I think Barclays had sent Mr A enough information before this 
for him to have taken steps to avoid the account falling into arrears. 
Barclays sent copies of the letters it sent to Mr A in 2022 when his CMP changed. It wrote to 
him in February, March, October and November 2022 telling him his CMP would increase 
from the following month. These letters set out the CMP and said this had increased 
because of the higher interest rate, which was also set out in the letters.
Mr A says he wasnt given enough information to make the right payments into his mortgage 
account and MCA. Mr A has an offset mortgage, which means the amount due is adjusted 
by the amount of interest accrued on any offset accounts in the previous month. So the 
amount Mr A needed to pay could be different from the CMP. He says the monthly offset 
statement only tells him what hes saved and doesnt tell him what the payment refers to. He 
sent a screen shot of part of a letter with the heading Your mortgage payment under which 
it said Your next monthly payment will be £305.97. 
Im sorry Mr A found this unclear. Nonetheless, Barclays did write to Mr A a number of times 
in 2022 saying the CMP and the interest rate had increased  the new interest rate and CMP 
were both set out in these letters. Barclays told Mr A he was making underpayments and it 
was using credit on the account to cover the underpayments. I think Barclays made Mr A 
reasonably aware he needed to increase his mortgage payments. 
Barclays sent copies of the annual mortgage statements dated October 2021 and October 
2022. These show that Mr As monthly payments didnt increase to match the new CMP. 
Mr A sent a copy of his credit report that shows Barclays recorded mortgage arrears of one 
month in late 2022. I appreciate that this could cause difficulty for Mr A when applying for 
credit and in other matters. But Barclays has to record accurate and up to date information 
with the credit reference agencies. Mr As account was in arrears and this was due to him 
making underpayments over a period of time. I dont think it was incorrect for Barclays to 
record this, and I dont think I can fairly require it to remove the adverse data.
Putting things right
Barclays agreed to pay £100 compensation. This is for the upset caused when it didnt 
immediately explain to Mr B why it had sent a letter saying a mortgage payment had been 
missed and how the arrears had come about. I dont agree that the correct information 
Barclays had previously sent to Mr A was over-ridden by any unclear information on the 
calls. But this did cause additional upset to Mr A. I think £100 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the additional upset.My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £100 to Mr A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 January 2024.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman