DRN-3203535
The complaint
Mr T, through his representative, complains that S.D. Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at 
Home (LAH) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr T was approved for 28 loans between April 2008 and August 2015. A full loan table was 
included in the final response letter LAH sent to Mr T. So, I do not set out those details here 
as both parties have that information.
LAHs final response letter said that loans 1 to 25 were ones it considered Time Barred and 
so it did not investigate them. LAHs view on Loans 26 to 28 was that it did not consider it 
had lent irresponsibly.
Mr T referred his complaint to this Service. One of our adjudicators looked at it and of the 
ones LAH considered Time Barred, our adjudicator applied the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) rules which apply and thought that we could look at them all. And LAH disagreed with 
the adjudicators view on jurisdiction.
Our adjudicator looked at the merits of the complaint as well and thought that LAH should 
put things right for Mr T in relation to loans 5 to 28 which meant the loans from 
December 2008 onwards.
LAH wrote back about the jurisdiction element and a second view was issued by our 
adjudicator to confirm the first view, as well as informing LAH that it had been passed to an 
ombudsman for both jurisdiction and merits to be considered.
I issued a jurisdiction decision and a provisional decision on the merits (in the same 
document) on 18 January 2022, in which I gave reasons why I thought I could look at all of 
the loans not just some of them. And, having considered the merits my provisional decision 
was that LAH should put things right for Mr T from loan 11 to loan 28. 
Mr T has responded to say he agrees with my provisional decision. LAH has confirmed it has 
received it but has not said more. 
I repeat here my jurisdiction decision. 
Why I can look into this complaint
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Mr T and LAH to
decide whether we can look at all loans being complained about. Having done so, I have
reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator  and that expressed in my provisional 
decision - that I have the power to consider all the loans being complained about. Ill explain 
why.
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint 
made more than six years after whats been complained about, or if later, more than three 
years after the complainant (in this case, Mr T) knew, or should really have known they had 
reason to complain. The exact wording is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can 
be found online in the FCAs Handbook.
Its clear loans 1 to 25 (loan 25 was approved in August 2014) were complained about more 
than six years after they were taken as Mr Ts letter to LAH was September 2020. No 
jurisdiction issue has been raised about loans 26 to 28 as these were complained about 
within the six year period of them being approved. 
As for loans 1 to 25, Ive not seen anything to persuade me Mr T was aware or ought to have 
been aware more than three years before he raised this complaint, that he had reason to 
complain. LAH has said that when Mr T experienced repayment problems and struggled to 
repay the lending this shouldve led him to realise he had reason to complain. But I dont 
think this is enough in this case to demonstrate that.
I say this because whilst experiencing repayment problems and struggling to repay the 
lending would no doubt have led Mr T to realise there was a problem (in terms of the 
financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this would have (or ought to have), in itself, made them 
aware that these problems were caused by LAH doing something wrong when it agreed the 
loans. LAH has had decisions about this aspect before.
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Mr T was or should have been aware 
earlier of his cause to complain more than three years before he did complain.
LAH has cited other cases it says have been determined by this Service on jurisdiction and 
have given a different outcome. But as well as the overall approach by this Service of all 
cases being considered individually, I have reviewed those two specific cases to which LAH 
have referred me. One has not received an ombudsmans decision and as such is not 
definitive. And the other has had a second view issued which is in line with our general 
approach to jurisdiction matters. And that is the approach I take on jurisdiction cases.
So, I think loans 1 to 25 were raised within the time limits I need to apply and that I do have 
the power to consider them together with loans 26 to 28. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision on the merits is set out here in smaller type to differentiate it from my 
final determination. 
Provisional decision dated 18 January 2022
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. LAH has received many 
decisions from this Service about irresponsible lending and so my summary here is very brief.
I note that some loans were approved by LAH when the relevant guidance for lenders was before the 
FCA was the regulator. Im familiar with the Office of Fair Tradings Irresponsible Lending Guide (ILG) 
issued in March 2010. Under the guidance given by the OFT, businesses should make sure they have 
made reasonable enquires to ensure they have lent responsibly. The OFT ILG was the foundation of 
the rules going forward in the FCA Consumer Credit Source book (CONC) and often sections of the 
ILG were cited in those rules.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr T. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become or was becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
LAH was required to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the 
loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because 
the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; 
as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should 
realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Our adjudicator did not think that LAH should put things right for Mr T in relation to loans 1 to 4 and as 
he has not disagreed with that, I consider those resolved and I have not reviewed loans 1 to 4 but 
they are relevant when considering the whole lending relationship.
I disagree with the opinion put forward by our adjudicator that by loan 5 the pattern of lending was 
enough to lead to LAH not lending. But I do think that by loan 5, December 2018, Mr T had been 
asking for credit for long enough for LAH to consider that more and detailed checks about his finances 
ought to have been carried out. We have very little from either party about those loans and so I am 
provisionally deciding not to uphold them as I am not able to determine what it is that LAH may have 
seen had it looked into Mr Ts finances further. And my view is the same up to and including loan 10.
My view alters from loan 11. By this date  December 2010  LAH had been lending to Mr T for over 
two and a half years and a pattern had developed. Mr T often had four loans running with LAH at the 
same time. And LAHs own evidence was that he had been in arrears a lot.
I have some account notes from LAHs records which does show me that it was regularly reporting 
arrears to Mr Ts credit file as being behind in his repayments, and often writing to him about those 
arrears. Those letters commenced as early as November 2009.
To illustrate this, LAHs records show that Loan 7 was approved for a 41 week term and it took Mr T 
74 weeks to pay off; loan 8 was for 41 weeks and took 68 weeks to pay off; loan 9 was for 52 weeks 
and took 90 weeks.
Added to which  many of these loans overlapped with each other, and often Mr T was asking for 
(and being approved) for two loans in a week, or two loans within a day of each other or two loans on 
the same day. All of this was leading to a burdensome catalogue of debt.Mr T has described this:
My debt went out of control I was borrowing [sic]. To pay other debts I just got myself into a 
rut were I kept on borrow to actually have money to keep living it was terrible if it wasn't for 
family helping me I would probably still be in the vicous [sic] circle
And my view is that Mr Ts description of this dovetails with the loan table history.
So, it seems to me that Mr T was permanently in debt to LAH and often behind in his payments. 
Despite this LAH continued to lend. And so, it seems to me LAH already knew he was in financial 
trouble.
I am satisfied that I think that Mr T lost out because LAH continued to provide borrowing from loan 11 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Ts ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So, I am planning to uphold the complaint about loans 11 to 28 and LAH should put things right. Both 
parties have one week to send to me any further information.
The situation now 
As Mr T and LAH have responded to the provisional decision then I can be succinct. Neither 
party has sent me any further evidence or information to consider and Mr T has said he 
accepts my provisional decision. In the absence of anything further to review, I see no 
reason to alter the provisional findings made in relation to jurisdiction and the merits and 
I repeat those earlier findings in this final decision.
I uphold Mr Ts complaint about loans 11 to 28 and LAH should put things right for Mr T in 
the way I have set out below. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr T from loan 11, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr T may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between his and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same impossible 
to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr T in a 
compliant way at this time.Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr T would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So, 
it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has done 
wrong and should put right.
LAH shouldnt have given Mr T loans 11 to 28.
LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr T towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything LAH have already refunded.
LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr T 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr T originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
LAH may  if LAH choose to  use the total of A plus B to repay any principal 
which LAH may have written-off, if it has done that.
LAH should pay any remaining refund to Mr T. If there is no refund left and still a 
balance outstanding made up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for LAH to 
pursue this further.
The overall pattern of Mr T borrowing for loans 11 to 28 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so for those loans which still appear on his credit 
file, I direct that LAH should remove these loans entirely from Mr Ts credit file. If 
LAH have sold any of the loans LAH should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to deduct tax from this interest. LAH should give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax LAH have deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part and I direct that S.D. Taylor Limited 
does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman