DRN-4384189
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) declined a claim under 
his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M had a motor insurance policy with Admiral. 
His car was stolen from outside a friends house in June 2022 and he made a claim.
Admiral looked into his claim. Mr M told it that hed lost the main key about two weeks 
beforehand, so hed been using a spare key to drive the car including the journey to the 
friends house.
The car was later found and the main key was inside it. The car was heavily damaged and 
was written off by Admiral.
Admiral carried out a forensic analysis on the spare key. It said the key held data showing it 
had been used at a lower mileage than recorded on the car. Admiral said this meant it 
couldnt have been used as Mr M said.
Admiral declined Mr Ms claim. It said it believed the car had been stolen using the main key, 
which it thought Mr M had left in the car. It thought Mr M hadnt taken enough care to look 
after the car.
Mr M complained. He said he thought the main key had been lost whilst he was in a bar 
about two weeks before the theft of the car.
He later said the key might have been stolen from the friends house in a burglary, again 
about two weeks before the theft of the car.
Admiral didnt uphold his complaint, so Mr M approached this service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and upheld it. He said that although there were 
discrepancies with the data on the spare key, he didnt think Admiral could definitively show 
that the main key had been used to steal the car or that it had been left unlocked. So he 
thought Admiral couldnt rely on the exclusion. He said it should pay the claim, plus interest.
Admiral didnt agree with the view, so this complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision to allow the parties to consider the matter further. 
Im intending upholding Mr Ms complaint, but Im issuing this as a provisional decision as my 
reasoning is the same as our investigators, but my intended decision is different. 
Its important that I say its not my role to determine how the theft occurred. My role is to 
consider whether Admiral behaved fairly when investigating the claim and that its 
conclusions are supported by the evidence.
Ive looked at Admirals policy wording. I can see this section which Admiral has used to 
reject Mr Ms claim:
General conditions
If an incident happens, which is directly or indirectly caused or contributed to by any 
of the following;
 your vehicle being left unlocked or unsecured
No cover under the policy will be given and instead our responsibility will be restricted 
to meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law.
Its not for Mr M to show how his car was stolen, he only needs to show he has an insured 
loss. Its for Admiral to show why its policy doesnt provide cover. 
Admiral has told this service that it believes the car was stolen using the main key. It points 
out that if Mr M had lost the key in a bar, then its very unlikely that the finder of the key 
would have known where the car was situated to be able to take it.
I agree with Admiral about this being unlikely, but it doesnt necessarily mean that the key 
was left in the car per the wording it used to decline the claim.
Mr M has also provided details of a burglary at the friends address when its also possible 
that the key could have been taken. I can see this event was reported to the police. If the key 
was taken during the burglary, then the thief would be reasonably aware that the car would 
return at some point and could be easily taken at some later point. 
Given this explanation, I can see that Mr Ms car could have been taken in a sequence of 
events like this. 
Taking all this into account, I dont think Admiral has reasonably shown that the keys were in 
the car and that it was stolen because of this.
For the reasons Ive discussed above, I dont think Admiral can reasonably decline the claim 
on the basis it has.
So I think its fair that Admiral reconsiders Mr Ms claim based on the remaining policy terms. 
For clarity, this doesnt mean Admiral must accept the claim, only that it should consider it 
without relying on the general condition mentioned above that it has used to reject the claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M didnt have anything to add to my provisional decision and Admiral didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because both parties had nothing to add, or didnt respond, my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same my provisional decision.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to reconsider Mr Ms claim on the remaining 
policy terms. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman