DRN-2379439
The complaint
Mr W complains that Together Personal Finance Limited (Together) made errors in its 
administration of a bridging loan facility.
What happened
Mr W took out a bridging loan in June 2018 for 12 months. It was to be repaid upon the sale 
of his property. During the application process, Mr W asked Together to split the title of the 
property, but this didnt happen. The solicitors responsible for splitting the title erroneously 
registered the charge over the original title for the whole property instead. 
The property was not sold by the end of the contract term and so the bridging loan became 
payable in full in June 2019. In order to rectify the error, Together offered to extend the loan 
term by a further 12 months allowing further time for Mr W to sell the property, freeze interest 
on the loan, cover the cost of the valuation, split the title deeds and waive the arrangement 
fee for the new loan.
Unhappy with the way Together had handled things, Mr W brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator considered the issues and didnt recommend Together do anything 
differently. He said it had already done enough to try to put Mr W back in the position he 
wouldve been in had the title been split correctly from the outset.
Mr W disagreed, saying hes lost out on better deals and is now finding it difficult in the 
current climate to sell his property and repay the loan. So the complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I know Mr W has found 
these events incredibly upsetting and that hell be extremely disappointed with my decision. 
But Ill now explain why I wont be requiring Together to do anything differently.
Its unclear why the title of the property was not split as Mr W specified at the application 
stage. The information Ive seen points to miscommunication between Togethers solicitors 
and Mr Ws solicitors, which led to the error occurring. Ive thought about the steps Together 
took in order to try and put Mr W back in the position hed have been in had the title been 
split correctly, and I can see that its done what we wouldve expected in that regard. Interest 
was frozen on the account for several months and Mr W was given more time to sell the 
property and redeem the loan.
Mr W has said he lost out on potential buyers for the property, due to Togethers error. But I 
havent seen sufficient evidence of this. And whilst I appreciate that the current situation with 
the pandemic has meant its become increasingly difficult to sell the property, Im afraid I 
cant hold Together liable for this and cant say Mr Ws difficulty in selling the property is 
solely as a result of the issue with title. 
Mr W has also mentioned other bridging deals he couldve taken advantage of, with lower 
interest rates. And hes sent us evidence of part of one of those deals. But I havent seen the 
other contractual terms associated with that bridging loan, or a reference to the land or 
security to which it relates, or the total term of the loan. Without all the evidence to compare 
both deals, Im afraid I cant say that the deal Mr W has presented is more favourable than 
Togethers loan or that Mr W has lost out as a result of Togethers error in this respect.
Ive considered carefully the position Mr W is in, and I dont think Together has acted 
unreasonably. It took steps to mitigate the detriment caused due to the initial error in not 
splitting the title, and it has put in place a number of strategies to help Mr W exit the bridging 
loan facility. Together ultimately decided not to fund a new account for Mr W and to deal with 
the splitting of the title under his current account. It said the account is now being looked 
after by Customer Operations and its Bridging Team while Together tries to support Mr W in 
exiting the bridging facility.
Together has assured me that it is not looking to take legal action or repossess the property 
which is subject to the charge, provided Mr W can engage with Together in relation to 
repayment of the loan. Together says it attempted to contact Mr W without success in 
September 2020 and  given that these events have been ongoing for some time  it has 
now reached the point where it needs Mr W to engage with it and discuss a suitable strategy 
for exiting the bridging loan. 
Together says it will require confirmation from Mr W that he is either in the process of selling 
the property and can evidence that a sale is going through, or that he has plans to refinance 
in order to redeem the bridging finance. I dont think these steps are unfair in the 
circumstances of this case, and from what Ive seen, Together has already done what we 
would expect it to do in order to try to resolve this complaint. So Im afraid I wont be asking 
Together to do anything differently.
Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr W, but I hope I have explained clearly why Ive reached 
this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman