DRN-4281911
The complaint
Mrs A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wouldnt refund money she lost in a scam.
What happened
What Mrs A says:
Mrs A has an account with HSBC. She received a WhatsApp message from a scammer, 
who claimed to be working for a company who could provide her with online work. She 
wanted to earn some extra money so entered into messaging with the scammer. Mrs A was 
asked to set up an account via the companys website, using a link provided by the 
scammer. Mrs A checked out the real companys website which seemed genuine.
Mrs A was then asked to deposit money by transferring funds from her HSBC account to her 
other bank account (which I will call bank A), and into a crypto investment. Mrs A was added 
to a WhatsApp group of other investors, so was made to feel it was a genuine opportunity. 
Mrs A began work, which was said to earn her commission. Mrs A was asked to transfer 
further sums to stop her account going into a negative balance.
Mrs A made the following payments from her HSBC account to her account with bank A:
Date Payment Amount
20 November 2022 Online payment to Mrs As account at Bank A £325
20 November 2022 Online payment to Mrs As account at Bank A £293
21 November 2022 Online payment to Mrs As account at Bank A £715
28 November 2022 Online payment to Mrs As account at Bank A £1516
28 November 2022 Online payment to Mrs As account at Bank A £103.32
30 November 2022 Online payment to Mrs As account at Bank A £1696
30 November 2022 Online payment to Mrs As account at Bank A £593
30 November 2022 Online payment to Mrs As account at Bank A £201.58 
(refunded)
30 November 2022 Online payment to Mrs As account at Bank A £201.58
Total loss £5442.90
Eventually, Mrs A realised she was the victim of a scam  as the scammer put more and 
more pressure on her to make further payments. She tried to make contact with other 
members of the WhatsApp group but received no response.
Mrs A says she is extremely embarrassed by what happened and has suffered stress and 
anxiety as a result. Because she lost so much money, she is struggling to pay bills. She 
cant bring herself to tell anyone about the scam, other than her husband.
Mrs A says HSBC didnt protect her and shouldve stopped the payments. She wants the 
money refunded plus interest at 8% per annum, and compensation of £500.
What HSBC say:
Mrs A reported the scam to HSBC on 12 December 2022. HSBC said the scam wasnt 
covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code as Mrs A made the 
payments to an account in her own name. Mrs A then transferred the funds from Bank A to 
the scammer. HSBC said they must tread a fine line between detecting fraudulent activity 
and preventing customers accessing their money. HSBC didnt uphold Mrs As complaint.
Our investigation so far:
Mrs A brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said the payments 
werent out of line with Mrs As normal account activity. He could see payments of £2000 on 
31 August 2022 and on 13 October 2022. Therefore, the payments wouldnt have stood out 
as suspicious or concerning to HSBC. She had also made other payments to her account 
with Bank A. The CRM Code didnt apply as the payments were to Mrs As own account.
HSBC hadnt contacted Bank A, but had they done so, no funds wouldve been available  
as Mrs A had by then moved the funds to the scammers account.
Mrs A asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint, and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs A has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that she 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Mrs A didnt intend for 
the  money to eventually go to the scammer  via Bank A - she is presumed to be liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to payments made to another UK beneficiary  
and in this case, the payment was made to Mrs As own account with Bank A. And she then 
made the payments from her account with Bank A to the scammer. 
But notwithstanding that the CRM Code doesnt apply, Ive looked at HSBCs broader 
responsibilities in processing the payments in question.
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs A when 
she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
I looked at how Mrs A used her HSBC account and whether the payments were unusual  
as if they were, we may have expected HSBC to intervene and ask questions. But - they 
werent.
I can see Mrs A made similar payments from her account, for example: 
- July 2020: payments of £350; £350; £250. 
- August 2022: payments of £200; £2000.
- October 2022: payment of £2000.
- November 2022: payment of £400 (prior to the scam).
I can also see that Mrs A made other payments regularly to her account with Bank A. For 
example, there were at least nine payments between August 2022 and October 2022 
(including two for £2000 each). 
Theres a balance to be struck: HSBC has obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction as this 
would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, I think HSBC acted 
reasonably in processing the payments.
I listened to the calls Mrs A made to HSBC when she reported the scam  and she 
confirmed she made the payments to her own account with Bank A, and then moved the 
funds to the scammer from Bank A. So  here, Mrs A needs to contact Bank A  as it was 
from that account that the payments were made to the scammer.
So, overall and in the circumstances of this case, I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible 
for Mrs As losses here.
Recovery:
I looked at whether HSBC took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that received the 
funds  in an effort to recover the lost funds. HSBC said they didnt try to recover the funds from Bank A  as they had been told by Mrs A 
that she had transferred the money to the scammer from Bank A  so there wasnt going to 
be anything to recover. Ive considered this argument, and I dont think it was necessary for 
HSBC to contact Bank A.
Im sorry Mrs A has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept shes been the victim 
of a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible for her loss.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman