DRN-1620239
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Zurich Assurance Limited made deductions from his pension fund 
without his knowledge, to cover the cost of life assurance. 
What happened
Mr A has a pension policy with Zurich, which includes life cover. After Mr A reached his 
selected retirement age (SRA), the contributions he was making weren't enough to cover the 
cost of the life cover. So Zurich made deductions from a reserve within Mr A's pension fund 
to cover the difference.
This had been going on since 2006, but Mr A didn't find out what had happened until 2019.
Zurich accepted it hadn't properly explained to Mr A how the increased life cover costs would 
be met after his SRA. But it said the deductions had been made in line with the policy's 
terms and conditions. As a gesture of goodwill, Zurich paid Mr A £6,210.39 - representing 
the total pension fund deductions since SRA plus interest.
Our investigator concluded Zurich didn't need to do anything else. He was satisfied the 
deductions had been made in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Zurich's 
gesture of goodwill meant Mr A's life cover had, in effect, been provided without charge 
since 2006. 
The life cover also remained in place. So the investigator wasn't persuaded Mr A would've 
done something different (such as cancelling the cover) if he'd known about the pension 
fund deductions sooner.
Overall, the investigator concluded Zurich didn't have to pay any additional compensation to 
Mr A.
Mr A didn't agree with the investigator's conclusions. He said he'd never agreed to Zurich 
making the deductions, and he doubted the original policy terms he'd signed remained in 
force. Mr A considered Zurich should pay additional compensation, equal to the amount it 
had already paid.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
 
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr A's concern when he discovered the shortfall in his life assurance 
premiums had been covered by deductions from a reserve within his pension fund. He says 
the deductions weren't explained, and he didn't agree to Zurich making them.
I've reviewed the policy document that was put in place when Mr A arranged his pension. . 
Although the documentation relating to the sale is quite limited, I must nevertheless take into 
account when the policy was established. In this case, it was in December 1987, which was 
before the implementation of the Financial Services Act 1986, at which point the 
requirements around records of a policy sale changed. However, a business nevertheless 
needed to ensure that its documents were clear and not misleading.
With that in mind, my first observation is that the policy retirement plan schedule, which is 
the document which would have been given to Mr A when the policy started, set out that Life 
Cover was attached to the policy and detailed the amount which would be deducted for the 
sum assured of £250,000. I think it would therefore be difficult to reasonably argue that Mr A 
wasnt made aware of the life cover and the deduction being taken in respect of that.
I also haven't seen anything to suggest that the terms and conditions have been amended. 
From what I've seen I'm satisfied that, under the terms of the policy, Zurich is able to use the 
reserve funds within Mr A's pension plan to cover the shortfall in life assurance costs.
But although there are provisions for the continuation of deductions beyond SRA, its unclear 
as to whether the nature of the deductions beyond SRA was explained to Mr A when he took 
out the policy. Zurich accepts that it could've done more to tell Mr A how his life assurance 
costs would be covered, once they'd increased after his SRA. And my interpretation of the 
policy terms is that Mr A needed to elect to continue the life cover after SRA. But he didnt do 
this  and neither did Zurich enquire as to whether he wished to.
Zurich has paid Mr A an amount equal to the deductions it's made from his pension fund 
since 2006. The payment was made in recognition that its communication could've been 
better. 
As I've already said, I'm satisfied that the terms and conditions allowed Zurich to make the 
deductions. The business could've done more to explain that to Mr A, and indeed requested 
confirmation as to whether he wished to continue the cover. But overall I think the payment 
it's made is enough to reflect the shortfall in its communication. I don't consider it would be 
fair or reasonable to ask Zurich to pay any additional compensation, especially since Mr A 
has had the benefit of the life cover throughout the period after SRA at effectively zero cost.  
I understand the life assurance remains in place. Mr A may want to consider the options 
available to him if he wants to avoid further deductions from his pension fund reserve.
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
My decision is that the amount of compensation offered by Zurich in this matter is fair in the 
circumstances. Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman