DRN-4029636
The complaint
Mr T complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (Aqua) has registered a marker against 
him at CIFAS  the national fraud database.
Whats happened?
Mr Ts Aqua credit card account was opened in April 2019. In January 2020, Aqua registered 
a marker against Mr T with CIFAS for misuse of facility.
Aqua refused to remove the marker when Mr T made a complaint. It said that it had been 
recorded correctly because Mr T made purchases and money transfers against available 
funds that he knew would be returned via direct debit, for financial gain.
Mr T says he wasnt aware of the CIFAS marker until he made an application for lending 
which was declined in 2021. In summary, Mr Ts said:
Funds shouldnt have been available to him if his direct debit bounced.
Aqua shouldnt let vulnerable customers exceed their credit limit (hes previously 
struggled with a gambling addiction and experienced financial difficulties).
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator concluded that the CIFAS marker had been applied correctly, so it should 
remain. But they thought that Aqua had contributed to Mr Ts unaffordable indebtedness and 
should treat him positively and sympathetically as a result.
Aqua didnt respond to our investigator, so Mr Ts case was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 16 February 2023. Ill set out my findings below.
In deciding whether Aquas report to CIFAS was made fairly, I must bear in mind that Aqua 
needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern about misuse of facility. It needs to be 
able to show that it had reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had 
been committed or attempted, backed up by evidence.
Mr T made several small payments to his Aqua account from May 2019. He didnt make any 
larger payments or attempt to clear the outstanding balance on the account until his direct 
debit mandate was amended to collect the full balance in October 2019. On the same day 
that Aqua collected the full balance via direct debit in October, Mr T instructed a large money 
transfer from his Aqua account. The direct debit was later returned unpaid, causing the Aqua 
account to exceed its credit limit. A similar thing happened in December 2019 and January 
2020. Mr T continued to use his account to make purchases and withdraw cash too. He 
didnt make any additional payments to his account after the direct debits had been returned 
unpaid, apart from when he cleared the full balance with a large payment in November 2019.
Mr T cleared the full balance with an ad hoc payment in November 2019 so I must conclude 
that he was receiving his account statements and aware of the information they contained. I 
think its unlikely that he intended to clear the full balance on three separate occasions in 
close proximity but failed to ensure there were enough funds in his bank account for his 
direct debit payments to be collected successfully  especially as he didnt make ad hoc 
payments to his Aqua account to rectify the situation on two occasions. I also think its 
unlikely that he didnt know his direct debit payments had been returned unpaid when he 
continued to use his Aqua account for money transfers, purchases and cash withdrawals. I 
think its most likely that Mr T knew his direct debit payments would be/had been returned 
unpaid and continued to use his account anyway when he didnt have the available funds to 
do so.
Overall, Im satisfied that Aqua had sufficient grounds to apply the relevant CIFAS marker, 
and I will not direct it to remove the marker. In the circumstances, Im also satisfied that it 
was reasonable for Aqua to close Mr Ts account.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Aqua shouldve been aware that Mr T had previously 
struggled with a gambling addiction, so I cant expect it to have taken this into account when 
providing credit or managing his account.
Aqua has said that Mr T met its acceptance criteria for a new account, and his credit limit 
was increased appropriately once during the lifetime of the account. Having looked at the 
information Aqua received when it carried out its lending checks and considered the way Mr 
T operated his account between the date it was opened and the date his credit limit was 
increased, Im not persuaded that Aqua made fair lending decisions in this case. But I note 
that Aqua has defaulted the account as Id expect it to do to assist Mr T with his finances, 
and its agreed not to pursue the debt he owes. So, I think Aqua has done enough to 
address any errors it made in this respect, and I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
require it to take any further action.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr T didnt respond to my provisional decision, and Aqua didnt wish to provide any further 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or evidence for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman