DRN-3157067
Complaint
Mrs B has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly continued applying 
charges to her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought HSBC should have realised 
that Mrs Bs overdraft had become unsustainable for her by April 2015 and so it shouldnt 
have added the charges it did from this point onwards. HSBC didnt accept our adjudicators 
view. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this provisional 
decision.
Having considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it continued 
adding interest and associated fees and charges to Mrs Bs overdraft from April 2015. By 
this point, it was evident that Mrs Bs overdraft had become unsustainable for her and that 
continuing to provide it was likely to cause significant adverse consequences. 
A cursory look at Mrs Bs statements leading up to this period shows that she hadnt seen a 
credit balance for an extended period of time. I accept that Mrs Bs overdraft was for a 
modest amount. But at this stage Mrs B was regularly exceeding her overdraft limit and she 
had direct debits for bill payments returned which is another indication of her struggling. 
I appreciate that the position did improve a little afterwards. But this doesnt change that 
overall by April 2015, I think HSBC ought to have realised that Mrs B was struggling and, in 
these circumstances, it should have instead treated Mrs B with forbearance, even if this 
meant taking corrective action in relation to the facility. 
All of this means that HSBC should have realised that Mrs B wasnt using her overdraft as 
intended and as the account conduct had suggested it had become unsustainable shouldnt 
have continued offering it on the same terms. As HSBC didnt react to Mrs Bs overdraft and 
instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mrs B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft at a time when 
she was already experiencing difficulty. So I think that Mrs B lost out because of what HSBC 
did wrong and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation - what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mrs B 
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Bs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from April 2015 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mrs B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If HSBC considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Bs 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the account from April 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman