DRN-4212104
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has treated her unfairly 
when she asked it to help her obtain a refund for a holiday she paid for using her 
Barclaycard credit card.
What happened
I set out below Mrs Hs version of events and Barclaycards version of those same events.
Mrs Hs version of events
Mrs Hs daughter booked an overseas package holiday from a third party supplier that I will 
refer to as S. The package comprised of flights and a seven night stay in a hotel for six 
family members including Mrs H.  Mrs H paid S £3,984.52 in total.
On arrival at the hotel Mrs H and her party were very dissatisfied with the hotel as many of 
the facilities were substandard to the point that Mrs H considered they were unsafe. The 
standard of hygiene in the rooms was not acceptable, for example, there was mould on the 
air conditioning units, cockroaches and other insects, possibly bedbugs were in the 
bedrooms. They were moved to new rooms described as deluxe, but the standard was not 
much better. But they initially accepted the rooms in an attempt to make the best of it.
Further, Mrs H tells us that on booking the holiday they had told S they needed rooms on the 
lower floors of the hotel due to the disabilities some of her holiday party have. S agreed that 
theyd be allocated rooms on the lower floors. Instead they were given rooms first on the fifth 
floor and then on the seventh.
Moreover, the hotel had been marketed online as a family-friendly hotel which does not allow 
hen or stag party groups. Mrs H and her daughter had read and relied on this information 
and chose the hotel on this basis. But when she got there, Mrs H found that the hotel in fact 
catered to a large extent to the hen and stag party market. These guests engaged in 
activities that Mrs H and her party found unacceptable and intolerable. Moreover, the rowdy 
and at times offensive behaviour of some of these other guests was allowed to continue 
even when Mrs H or other members of her family group complained about it to the hotel and 
S. 
One of the family members got an ear infection whilst staying at the hotel, which she 
attributes to the state of the pool.  Although the medical information Mrs H sent us said the 
infection sounds viral. One of the other family members needed treatment for insect bites 
both while on holiday and on their return.
In the end, Mrs H and her family cut their holiday short, and returned home. So they could 
get home early, Mrs H bought return plane tickets for all of her family members. These plane 
tickets cost £701.97 in total. Therefore the total cost to Mrs H was £4,686.49 (= £3,984.52 + 
£701.97).
Mrs Hs daughter complained to S but ultimately despite promises from S to help her she got 
nowhere. As a result Mrs H tried a different tack and complained to Barclaycard. Mrs H 
wanted a full refund and the assistance she was entitled to as a longstanding customer, who 
has never raised such a complaint before. Instead Barclaycard gave her the run-around, for 
example it asked for the same information over and over again, gave her incorrect 
information, passed her from person to person and took several months to come to a 
conclusion.
Moreover, Mrs H wanted Barclaycard to write off the interest and charges that related to this 
purchase given it took so long to decide what to do, but it did not. Rather it just refunded her 
for her portion of the holiday £781.08 (= £4,686.49/6) and gave her an additional £500 to 
reflect the loss of enjoyment that the other five people most likely experienced. But Mrs H 
wanted a full refund for the total price she paid. Mrs H closed her account in frustration. 
Therefore she initially rejected this refund. Later she did accept the refund but not in full and 
final settlement.
Mrs H explained that this matter was especially poignant because the money she used to 
pay for the holiday had come from a legacy from a much loved relative. Therefore the 
holiday was all the more meaningful due to this. She does not have the money to take her 
family on holiday again to make up for this holiday.
Barclaycards version of events
When Mrs H contacted it Barclaycard told her there were two potential routes for getting her 
money back. These routes were a claim against itself under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. Or a claim under a process known as chargeback. 
As to the complaint under Section 75 Barclaycard was only liable for any losses experienced 
by Mrs H in relation to the part of the holiday that she contracted for.  Barclays did not agree 
that Mrs H contracted with S for the entire holiday. Rather it thought she just had contractual 
rights in relation to the part of the holiday that was about services to be delivered to her 
alone. It accepted that if, in relation to this limited part of the contract, Mrs H could 
demonstrate either misrepresentation or breach of contract she could hold it responsible for 
this. However, Barclaycard did not agree that Mrs H had shown either of these things. 
However, as a goodwill gesture it refunded £1,281.08 to Mrs Hs credit card account.
But there was still the second route and that might have been a way for Mrs H to recover the 
balance of the £3,984.52 at least. The £701.97 would never have been recoverable under 
the chargeback process because this was a consequential loss and in any event the return 
flights had been delivered. However, even this avenue was closed to Mrs H. Barclaycard did 
not start the chargeback process because it thought it was pointless to do so. Specifically, at 
first Barclaycard said the chargeback would not succeed because what it called the 
merchant (that is S) would have been able to successfully defend any chargeback attempt, 
on the basis that the services were available. It was not Ss fault that Mrs H chose not to use 
them. It added in any event chargeback is not a mechanism for dealing with the standard of 
the hotel or its cleanliness. Later Barclaycard said that the chargeback would have failed 
because S had provided the services it should have done.
Barclaycard indicated that it had not always provided the level of customer service Mrs H 
was entitled to expect whilst it was dealing with the claim and the complaint. Therefore, it did 
uphold this aspect of Mrs Hs complaint. It recognised that this likely caused Mrs H distress 
and inconvenience and it credited Mrs Hs account with £150 to make up for this.
What happened once the complaint came to our service
Dissatisfied, Mrs H complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Hs complaint. Our investigators view was that 
Barclaycard had already done enough. It followed that our investigator did not recommend 
upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Barclaycard accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mrs H did not. Ive 
summarised what Mrs H said in response to our investigators recommendation:
Mrs H explained that she sat with her daughter and together they selected the 
holiday. However, her daughter made the booking with S and provided her details only because Mrs H has a disability that cognitively impairs her.
Mrs H said she could send us a video clip to show some of the behaviour she and 
her family witnessed.
It is telling that she and her family decided to cut the holiday short, theyd done this 
because there was something very wrong with the holiday. Further, she reiterated 
why the holiday was so special to her and her family.
Mrs H repeated that she should not have been made to pay interest and charges 
when she closed her account. She thinks she only ran up this interest and these 
charges because Barclaycard took too long to come to a conclusion about her 
complaint.
Barclaycard had not paid her enough for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs H asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I can well understand why this holiday was so important to Mrs H and her family. The hurt 
that she feels because it went so wrong in these circumstances jumps off the page. But 
whilst I recognise Mrs Hs strong feelings I must look at the information Ive got about the 
complaint and decide if Barclaycard did anything wrong. If it acted correctly then Ive got no 
proper basis to uphold her complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
I think Barclaycard was correct to say it had two potential routes for getting back Mrs Hs 
money, a claim under section 75 and chargeback. Ill look at each in turn.
Section 75
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mrs H has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract against the supplier (here that is S) she can also bring a like claim against 
Barclaycard provided certain conditions are met. 
One of these conditions is that there must be a specific type of agreement in place known as 
a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. In particular this means that Mrs H would have to be 
the debtor, Barclaycard the creditor and S the supplier. 
The difficulty here for Mrs H is that she is not the debtor. She did not contract with S her 
daughter did by making the booking with S. This is clear from Ss terms and conditions. Therefore on the face of it there is no agreement in place that would permit Mrs H to bring a 
valid claim under Section 75. 
I acknowledge Mrs Hs points about not knowing the ins and outs of Section 75 when she 
was organising this holiday. Therefore she did not know what impact it would have on her 
rights that her daughter did the booking with S and that her payment went to S not the hotel.
However, there is help for Mrs H in this situation because in relation to the booking with S 
there are provisions other that Section 75 that are relevant. In particular the Package Travel 
Regulations 2018 (PTRs).
The PTRs define Mrs H as a traveller, which is a person entitled to travel on the basis of a 
[package travel] contract . Further, under the PTRs S would be defined as the organiser 
of the package. 
The effect of the PTRs is to make it a term of any package travel contract that the organiser 
will be liable to the traveller for the proper performance of the various travel services 
included in the contract, such as the provision of accommodation, regardless of whether 
these services are delegated to third parties such as a hotel. If any of the travel services are 
not performed in accordance with the contract, then the organiser must remedy the situation 
within a reasonable period. If they fail to do so, then contractually the traveller is entitled to a 
price reduction reflecting the period of non-conformity. 
Further the PTRs provide that where information relating to key things about the holiday is 
provided to the consumer it becomes part of the contract and must not be changed unless 
the traveller agrees otherwise.  Also the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) has similar 
provisions regarding implied terms about descriptions. The CRA is also relevant to this 
complaint. This means the description of the hotel that appeared on Ss website could have 
formed a part of the contract with Mrs H. 
The CRA also implies terms into the contact with Mrs H about services it says these must be 
delivered with reasonable skill and care.
Mrs Hs stance is that the contract with S was breached on a number of counts. In that it was 
a term of the contract that the hotel would not accept bookings from stag/hen parties, but it 
did. Further it was a term of the contract that the rooms would be on the lower floors of the 
hotel, but they were not. That it was a term of the contract that the services would be 
delivered with reasonable skill and care, and they were not. But I dont need to look into any 
of this in any more detail, simply because even if all of this were correct Mrs Hs remedy 
would be a price reduction but crucially only in relation to the part of the holiday that relates 
specifically to her. And she has had a remedy that goes beyond this as she has had a full 
refund in relation to the 1/6th of holiday contract that relates to her. 
For all of these reasons, Ive no proper basis to say Barclaycard has to do more in relation to 
this part of Mrs Hs complaint.
I recognise that Mrs H may find it really disappointing that for very technical reasons, she 
cant recover the entire amount she spent on the holiday. She might be thinking if only she 
had been able to book with S shed have got all of her money back. I do recognise it was 
impossible for her to book the holiday with S because of her disability.
However, it might help Mrs H to know this. Even if she had been able to book the holiday 
directly with S I would not have given her a full refund via a full price reduction. I say this 
because if I told Barclaycard it had to give her all of her money back, Id been indicating that 
nothing of value was provided or used, this would be unfair because it would be inaccurate. I 
say this because in fact part of the holiday was used, for example all six people used the 
outward flights and did spend several nights too in the hotel. So any price reduction I would 
have ordered would have only been a partial price reduction.
ChargebackChargeback is a mechanism for claiming a refund (in full or in part) of a payment made on a 
plastic card such as Mrs Hs credit card. Chargebacks are subject to rules set by the card 
scheme to which the card belongs. These rules set out what sort of disputes a scheme 
member (here that would be Barclaycard)) can validly raise a chargeback for, the kind of 
evidence required to support a chargeback, the time limits involved, and so on. 
There is no guarantee that a chargeback will succeed, and it can be opposed or defended by 
the financial institution which received the card payment, who may not agree that the 
chargeback is valid. If no side to a chargeback is willing to concede then the card scheme 
itself can be asked to make a ruling by a process known as arbitration. 
I would expect a credit card provider, approached by a customer looking to dispute a card 
payment for goods or services, to consider whether it had valid grounds for raising a 
chargeback, and to do so if it would appear that a chargeback would both be compliant with 
the card scheme rules and have reasonable prospects of succeeding. 
Importantly, Mrs Hs contractual relationship with S, which as Ive explained above affects 
the amount I think she is able to claim in respect of the holiday under Section 75, isnt 
something which is mentioned in the card scheme rules as something which would limit the 
amount she could claim as a refund. 
That said what the chargeback would be looking at here is not entirely the same as what 
would be relevant to Section 75. In so far as chargebacks are not a way of determining a 
dispute in accordance with national laws, rather, it is the card scheme rules which would 
decide the outcome of a chargeback case. 
Chargebacks are marketed as a way that a card provider can use to help their customer 
pursue a refund when goods or services have been purchased but are defective/not as 
described. 
Mrs Hs stance is that the hotel and the services it provided were defective/ not as described. 
But Barclaycard decided not to pursue a chargeback. At first it said it was because S 
provided the services Mrs H just chose not to use them. Ive been unable to find any 
reference in chargeback rules to this being a scenario where a chargeback would not be 
valid. Then Barclaycard suggested the chargeback would have failed because the services 
were provided. The issue however was not the provision of services it was the quality of 
those services that was being disputed by Mrs H.
All of this makes me think that Barclaycard had not identified the correct chargeback reason. 
However, I think even if the correct chargeback reason had been used it would not have 
succeeded. Ive looked at everything in the case file including the photos Mrs H sent which 
she clearly thinks is rock solid evidence. But shes nothing to show that hen/stag parties had 
been booked into the hotel, nothing to show that shed contracted for rooms on the lower 
floors, moreover the acceptance of deluxe rooms on high floors might have proved fatal to 
this part of her complaint. Further, whilst I can see why the rooms she got did not meet her 
personal hygiene standards, I think it is unlikely, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances, that the chargeback would have succeeded based on the information Ive 
seen.
It follows that it would not be fair or reasonable to say that Barclaycard has to refund the 
remainder of the £3,984.52 Just for completeness Ill add Barclaycard could never have 
used chargeback to recover the £701.97 as there was no chargeback reason that would 
have permitted a valid chargeback in relation to this payment.
Interest and charges
I recognise that Mrs H considers that Barclaycard should not be able to charge her interest 
and charges. But it is entitled to charge her these under the account terms and conditions. 
She accepted these terms and conditions when she opened the account. I think it is 
reasonable to assume, as a starting point, that when a person reads and signs an agreement  they understand the terms of the agreement and they are agreeing to be bound 
by them. It follows that Barclaycard is acting fairly and reasonably by relying on these terms 
and conditions.
In any event, I dont think it follows that Mrs H only incurred the interest and charges 
because Barclays took too long to reach a decision, Mrs H chose to not pay the balance 
while she disputed it. That was her choice to make. If she had paid the balance shed not 
have incurred the interest and charges. But Barclaycard did not have to suspend or waive 
these contractual charges because she made that choice. Neither did it have to waive the 
charges because it took longer than Mrs H thought it should have done to reach a 
conclusion.  
Distress and inconvenience
Given the special circumstances of this holiday no amount of money is ever going to make 
up for Mrs Hs disappointment and that of her family. I can well understand that Barclaycard 
made things worse and caused more distress and inconvenience for Mrs H by sometimes 
messing up when it was looking at her claim under Section 75 and the chargeback.
I dont think £150 is enough to make up for the stress and inconvenience this caused 
especially since it kept on making the same mistakes. But Barclaycard has already given 
Mrs H £500 that it need not have given her. I say this because it was not obliged to make 
any payment to her for the loss of enjoyment her family experienced which is what the £500 
represents.  So in the circumstances I dont find it is fair or reasonable that it should also 
have to pay her more for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman