DRN-3712891
The complaint
Mr J complains about delays caused by James Hay Administration Company Ltd (JH) in
transferring his SIPP funds to enable him to set up his annuity.
What happened
Mr J said he took financial advice and set up two Self-invested Personal Pensions (SIPPS)
with JH in the period from 2006 to 2019. In 2019 he decided he wanted to move into
annuities instead and gave instructions to accept an insurance company quote issued in
May 2019 (with a guarantee period until 15 July 2019).The insurance company said it
received his application and sent a request for funds to JH on 6 June 2019.
Mr J said no action was taken by JH for six weeks from 6 June to 18 July and in the end, it
took 12 weeks and 14 weeks respectively for each SIPP to be processed.
JH accepted it had caused a delay in not sending on their open market annuity request form
at the start. But it said the pay out from a property investment fund could not have been
completed sooner as it was illiquid so it would never have been possible to meet the
deadline of 15 July 2019 to capture the higher annuity rate. It noted that for the SIPP without
that property investment fund (policy ending 736) the forms were received on 24 July 2019
and there were no further delays and the payment was completed in a timely fashion but this
took 5 weeks. So even if the open market form had been sent out earlier it would not have
been possible to complete the transfer by 15 July 2019. It apologised but said it had not
caused any loss.
JH also said the open market option form was available on their website and they expect
members or their adviser to familiarise themselves with the documentation needed to
withdraw funds. When it first sent the form on 18 July these were sent by post as it did not
hold an email address at that time. It said it did not monitor fund suspensions and was not
responsible for doing so. It did not have a service level agreement for a transfer such as this
as it could not control the timescales taken by investment funds. It said that from 24 July
when it received the correct application form it took 1 business day to issue risk warningsJH 
also said the open market option form was available on their website and they expect
members or their adviser to familiarise themselves with the documentation needed to
withdraw funds. When it first sent the form on 18 July these were sent by post as it did not
hold an email address at that time. It said it did not monitor fund suspensions and was not
responsible for doing so. It did not have a service level agreement for a transfer such as this
as it could not control the timescales taken by investment funds. It said that from 24 July
when it received the correct application form it took 1 business day to issue risk warnings 
which were then waived on 30 July 2019. It took 4 business days following the receipt to
instruct the investment fund manager on 5 August 2019. The proceeds were then received
on 21 August 2019 but a regular income payment was sent on 27 August and the transfer
completed. If the same timeframe is applied to the second policy is clear it would not have
been done in time for 15 July.
I issued a provisional decision and said the following,
I first needed to decide if JH made a mistake. Having reviewed the papers I thought it 
caused a delay and didnt deal with Mr Js request as quickly as it could have. JH accepted 
this and said it should have sent out the open market request form at the start.
Where there had been a mistake, I could make an award for any financial loss and distress
and inconvenience. I therefore considered this in further detail below.
Mr J had two SIPPs one policy ending 736 and one 249.
The policy ending 736 was wholly invested as to 98.77% in one insurance company
international bond fund with the remainder in cash. As at 23 July 2019 it had a value of
around £173,000.
The policy ending 249 (started in 2007) had a value of around £180,000 in June 2019 and
was invested in 6 funds one of which was listed as Property fund which held about £65,000 
(35%) of the overall investments in that policy, as at June 2019.
The JH file showed that it received various notifications about the property fund from the
investment manager:-
On 14/12/2012 to notify that the property fund manager was deferring any
redemption requests and placing redemption requests in a queue that would be
dealt with in date order,
02/08/2017 it was called to say that the fund had been suspended.
20 March 2020 it was notified the fund was still suspended but from 17 March 
redemption requests were no longer accepted.
19 April 2021, notified fund still suspended
26 January 22 redemption queue cleared and now making capital distributions
settlements which were due on 26/1/22.
5 April 22 notification of payment of percentage of NAV to remaining investors and
closure of fund from 14 July 2021.
From the above evidence it was clear to me that since 2012 the fund had been controlling
redemptions. However it did seem that redemption requests were being accepted and
dealt with in date order whether or not the actual fund was suspended. Based on this
evidence it seemed reasonable to me to accept that as JH said an instruction to sell units
in this funds would not proceed in the same timescales as other funds that were not
subject to such controls.
I noted also that JH terms and conditions provided the following:-
12.9 Suspension of Funds
12.9.1 In the event that a fund manager suspends dealing in a Fund for whatever
reason, we accept no responsibility for any inability to process instructions in respect
of that fund.
So it seemed JH had expressly provided that it was not responsible for any delay caused by
a suspension. This supported what JH has said about the sequence of events and reasons 
for the delay.However this was only part of the reason for the delay which I considered further.
For ease of reference I set out a timeline of events below. This was based on the
evidence provided to me.
Timeline of events in business days
6 June 2019 The annuity company sent applications forms and request for funds to JH
Day 1 -Monday 10 June JH (subsequently) confirmed it received the request from the
annuity company. The letter from the annuity company said we believe that all the
information you need to make the payment is above. If you have any questions or there is
any reason why you are unable to make payment please call us on..
Day 21 -Tuesday 9 July the annuity company chased JH but were told they needed a form
signed by Mr J which JH had not yet sent out but said they would do so urgently.
Day 25  Monday 15 July time for acceptance of the annuity terms from the insurance
company expired.
Day 28 Thursday 18 July The annuity company chased again and JH said the form had still
not been sent out. JH sent the form to Mr J under cover of a letter dated 18 July listing both
policy 249 and 736.
Day 30 Monday 22 July Mr J said he finally received a letter (dated 18 July) from JH with
two transfer discharge forms.
Day 31 Tuesday 23 July Mr J called JH to ask for advice about how to complete the forms
and was told he had been sent over the incorrect forms.
Day 31 Tuesday 23 July The correct forms were emailed for signature and returned the
same day
Day 34 Friday 26 July JH wrote to Mr J asking him if he was sure he wished to proceed and
he telephoned in reply on 30 July to confirm he did.
Day 35 Monday 29 July the annuity company received a discharge from which they
completed and returned on the same day.
Day 37 Wednesday 31 July JH confirmed they received contact from the annuity company
in June.
Day 40 Monday 5 August the annuity company phoned JH but did not manage to get
through.
Day 40 Monday 5 August a letter is sent by JH to the investment manager asking for 
disinvestment of all units in all funds in the policy ending 736 and cash and income is not
Reinvested
Day 40/41 Monday 5 and Tuesday 6 August - A transaction schedule shows that for the
SIPP ending 249 units were sold on 5 and 6 August 2019 (yielding around £111,000)
Funds).
Day 41 - 6 August JH called the annuity company back to say they were waiting for funds
from the investment company.Day 45 Monday12 August policy 249 the administrator writes to JH to confirm the sale of all
funds (save the property fund) with proceeds of around £111,000. The letter makes no
comment about the status of the sale of units in the property fund.
Day 47 Wednesday 14 August the annuity company chased again and were told the
investment company property stock had been suspended from trading.
Day 52 Wednesday 21 August 2019 (The policy ending 736) the insurance company
confirmed it had been cashed in and £174,000 would be paid within 4 working days
Day 53 Thursday 22 August 2019 policy 249 letter from the administrator confirming of
payment of £6.92 on one fund from sale.
Monday 26 August 2019 Bank Holiday
Day 57 Thursday 29 August 2019 Policy 736 confirmation of crystallisation date of
29/08/2019 and value of about £173,000
Day 58 Friday 30 August (policy 736) the annuity company received the proceeds (around
£173,000). JH wrote to Mr J to confirm the funds were sent by telegraphic transfer. JH file
records shows around £173,000 transferred to the annuity company.
Day 68 Thursday 12 September (policy 249) sale proceeds received by JH from
investment manager for the property fund the file record shows around £58,000 was 
transferred. It does not confirm how many units were sold.
Day 71 Tuesday 17 September the annuity company received the proceeds from the
second SIPP (ending 249) of around £180,000. JH writes to Mr J to send an annuity
statement confirming the funds sent by telegraphic transfer. The file records for JH show
around £180,000 was transferred.
Financial loss
Where there is a mistake the aim is to put Mr J back in the position, he would have been in
but for that mistake. I needed to consider how long the delay was and what difference it 
would have made had there been no delay.
How long was the delay?
JH had accepted that it should have sent out the required forms which were not sent to Mr J
until day 28 and received by him on day 30. I noted that JH said the open market option form
was available on their website and they ed members or their adviser to familiarise
themselves with the documentation needed to withdraw funds. But I didnt think this relieved
JH of responsibility for sending out the form. The annuity company expressly said 
we believe that all the information you need to make the payment is above. If you have any
questions or there is any reason why you are unable to make payment please call us on.
But JH didnt answer to say what was needed. JH was also subject to the principles set out 
by the Financial Conduct Authority. These include
principle 6  A firms must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat
them fairly.
Principle 7 - A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, andcommunicate information to them in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading.
I thought these principles were clear that JH should do more than passively supply 
information. Even if it had simply reacted to the annuity company request it would have been 
clear what was needed much sooner. Had it proactively also written to Mr J that would have 
been supportive of his information needs. So I didnt think making the form available was a 
reasonable excuse for the delay in sending out the form in this case and should not excuse
JH from responsibility for the delay.
However it also then sent the wrong forms and it then sent the new forms by email and they
were signed and returned on the same day (day 31). While sending the wrong forms caused
some delay, it seemed reasonable to assume it would always have taken at least one or two
days for the forms to arrive by post. So in reality it didnt make any overall difference as the
correct forms were then sent by email and returned the same day.
So I thought that JH caused 28 business days of delay before it took steps to start the 
process by sending the forms to Mr J on Thursday 18 July.
How long did it take to encash?
I have seen the disinvestment instruction for policy 736 that was sent on Day 40 - Monday 5
August to request full sale. The funds were confirmed as encashed on Day 52 ( 21 August)
and the proceeds reached the annuity company by day 58 (30 August). So once all the 
papers were received it took from day 34 (when all forms required from Mr J were completed
and confirmation he wished to proceed provided) until day 52 to complete the transfer of
money.
A period of 18 business days.
I had not seen the disinvestment instruction for policy 249 but confirmations issued by the
administrator show this was in hand by Day 40 - 5 August. However due to the payment of
an income distribution and the delay with the property fund the transfer of money didnt take
place until day 71.
A period of 37 business days (from day 34 to day 71).
What position would Mr J have been in but for the delay?
But for the 28 day delay it seemed reasonable to conclude that Mr Js transfer would have
been completed 28 business days earlier which would mean it was completed on day 43
(Thursday 8 August 2019) rather than day 71.
So it was clear the transfer from both policies would not have been completed in time for the 
15 July 2019 deadline for the annuity quote. I assumed that both transfers needed to be 
completed before the annuity contract could proceed.
However Mr J had said that the annuity company rates changed on 25 July, 8 August and 23
August. It therefore seemed likely that had there been no delay by JH, Mr Js money would
have reached the annuity company in time for him to accept the rate change implemented
on 8 August and before the rate change on 23 August.
My proposed redress
I did not know whether Mr J has suffered a financial loss as a result of the delay. I said that
because while the annuity rate available on 8 August 2019 would, I understood have been
better than the rate Mr J actually received, his funds would also have been encashed at
earlier dates and might have realised more or less than they actually did.My purpose in making an award for redress is to put Mr J back in as close to the position he
would have been in but for the delay by JH.
It was therefore necessary for JH to complete calculations on the basis proposed below
assuming each step took place 28 days earlier, so the encashment instructions would have
been sent on day 12 (2 July 2019 ) rather than on day 40 (5 August 2019).
JH should:-
1. calculate the amount of money that Mr J would have received from each fund in
policy ending 249 had the encashment instruction been issued on day 12  2 July
2019 and assuming that all funds (other than the property fund were sold on day 13-
3 July 2019). This reflects what happened when the instruction was issued on day 40
and encashment confirmed by the administrator on day 40 and 41
2. for the purposes of the money realised from the property fund assume that the fund
would have been encashed 28 days earlier than it actually was. I did not have
information to establish that date at preent but asked JH to confirm this before I
issued my final decision.
3. calculate the total amount of money that Mr J would have received from the encashment 
of his SIPP policy ending 736 had the encashment instruction been issued on day 12  2 
July 2019, and assuming encashment 28 days sooner than it actually was cashed in.
4. working with Mr Js annuity company ask it to confirm how much gross annuity
income Mr J would be receiving if the total of the amounts received from 1,2 and 3
above were applied using the annuity rate on 8 August 2019 on the same terms and
conditions (other than the annuity rate) as it was actually secured.
5. Past Loss JH should calculate:-
 A) Total of all the notional payments which Mr J should have received from this
annuity pension, net of his marginal rate of tax, from the date of commencement of
his current annuity up to the date of settlement under this direction based on the
amounts advised by Mr Js annuity company under 4 above.
 B) Total of all the actual payments which Mr J has actually received from his
annuity pension, net of his marginal rate of tax, from the date of commencement of
his current annuity up to the date of settlement under this direction
 C) Past Loss = A  B. If the answer is negative, theres a past gain and no redress
is payable if it is positive there is a loss which should be paid to Mr J.
6. In working out the net payments, JH should assume that Mr J was a nil/20%/40%
rate taxpayer.
7. Such amount as is calculated as a loss under section 5 should be paid together with
interest thereon at the rate of 8% per annum simple form the date each annuity
pension payment should have been paid to the date of actual payment of the arrears
calculated under 5 above, to Mr J under this direction.
8. Future Loss - If there is a Past Loss under 5 above, JH should calculate and makearrangement to compensate for future loss as follows by calculating the following
D) The pension which Mr J would be receiving had he bought the higher
rate of gross annuity income calculated under 4 and 5 above. (This is the gross
annual amount from which the net instalments used to calculate the total under A)
were used.)
E) The pension Mr J is currently receiving. (This is the gross annual
amount of his current annuity, from which the net instalments used to calculate the
total under B were used.)
F) Future Gross Loss per year = D  E.
G) JH should make arrangements with Mr Js annuity company or another
annuity company to provide funds to it or another annuity company to increase Mr Js
annuity to the gross pension amount to the level it would have been but for the delay.
If for any reason this is not possible JH should refer to published annuity rate
tables to work out the gross purchase price of a comparable annuity paying the lost
income in F).
H) The purchase price of the annuity found in G) is Mr Js gross future loss. If
it is not possible to increase Mr Js existing annuity or secure another additional
annuity to increase the amount of annual pension needed to compensate for future
loss the amount required to purchase such an annuity should be paid directly to Mr J
as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for income tax that would
otherwise have been paid at his likely rate on the income in F  presumed to be
Nil/20%/40%.
Mr J will need to supply JH with details of the basis of his annuity to enable JH to work with
the annuity company to establish what annuity income would have been secured at 8 August
2019.
JH will need to supply Mr J with detailed workings including evidence to support unit prices
on the dates of encashment assumed in 1 to 3 above and the annuity rate used in 4 above.
I have also considered an award for distress and inconvenience. Such an award is to reflect
the impact on Mr J not to punish JH. It is clear that it has been frustrating for Mr J. Having
considered this on balance I think an amount of £200 is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances.
Before I issue my final decision
It would be helpful if before I issue my final decision:-
both parties could confirm:-
1. they are content with the detail in the timeline of events and if not explain why
2. they are content that the proposed redress is workable and whether they are any
issues with increasing the current annuity or whether compensation should be paid
in a lump sum.
If Mr J could confirm:-1. his marginal rate of tax and provide details of his current annuity
2. his position in relation to the Lifetime Allowance (LTA) and any protection from the
Lifetime Allowance and whether an increase in the annuity could create any potential
issues if Mr J does not have LTA headroom to allow such payments or such payment
could affect any LTA protection.
It would also help if JH can:-
1. Confirm on what date the property fund price was set for encashment.
2. Confirm whether all units in the property fund held in his SIPP policy ending 249,
were encashed in 2019 and if so, why the fund managers continued to write with
respect to Mr Js policy until 2022. If all units were not encashed in 2019, please
explain how many remained and whether Mr J has now received credit following the final 
distributions from the fund.
I proposed to uphold this complaint.
I proposed to direct that JH should:-
1. Pay Mr J £200 for distress and inconvenience
2. within 30 days of this service notifying it that Mr J has accepted my final decision, it
should calculate whether there has been any financial loss on the basis set out
above and provide Mr J with details of those calculations.
3. If there is a financial loss it should make arrangement for:-
(a) To pay compensation for future loss to Mr J within 60 days of this service
notifying it that Mr J has accepted my final decision and such payment to be
either by way or increased annuity or lump sum payment as set out in my redress
calculation.
(b) and pay any arrears of annuity income for past loss with interest at 8% per
annum simple on the basis set out above within 60 days of this service notifying it
that Mr J has accepted my final decision.
4. If payment of compensation set out above for future loss is not made within 60 days
of JH receiving Mr Js acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the
compensation for future loss, at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision to the date of payment.
5. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If JH deducts income tax from the
interest, it should tell Mr J how much has been taken off. JH should give Mr J a tax
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr J asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HMRC if appropriate.
Mr J said he supported my provisional decision. He was content with the timeline of events 
and the proposed method of redress. He confirmed his tax code and that this was a basic 
rate taxpayer. He said he had a protected LTA of £1.4 million which had not been fully 
utilised. He also supplied details of his current annuity which have been sent on to JH.JH said it accepted the timeline and findings in my provisional decision. It confirmed that all 
the units in the property fund were encashed on 6 September 2019 and the cash transferred 
to the annuity provider on 17 September 2019. After this it was notified of a bulk settlement 
rebate of 1.032 units on 20 September 2019 with a value of £18.75. As it charged a £50 fee 
to administer post closure payments this amount was below the threshold and no payment 
was sent to Mr J.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I have not changed my mind.
I note the comments from JH about the further receipt of funds from the property fund which 
seems reasonable to me.
Putting things right
JH should put things right on the basis below and on the basis that Mr J is a basic rate 
taxpayer and that there are Lifetime Allowance Protection issues that both parties will need 
to consider in deciding how to pay the redress without affecting that protection. My proposed 
redress makes provision for this and how the redress can be paid if this is an issue.
It is necessary for JH to complete calculations on the basis below assuming each step took 
place 28 days earlier, so the encashment instructions would have been sent on day 12 (2 
July 2019 ) rather than on day 40 (5 August 2019).
JH should:-
1. calculate the amount of money that Mr J would have received from each fund in
policy ending 249 had the encashment instruction been issued on day 12  2 July
2019 and assuming that all funds (other than the property fund were sold on day 13-
3 July 2019). This reflects what happened when the instruction was issued on day 40
and encashment confirmed by the administrator on day 40 and 41
2. for the purposes of the money realised from the property fund assume that the fund
would have been encashed 28 days earlier than it actually was. 
3. calculate the total amount of money that Mr J would have received from the encashment 
of his SIPP policy ending 736 had the encashment instruction been issued on day 12  2 
July 2019, and assuming encashment 28 days sooner than it actually was cashed in.
4. working with Mr Js annuity company ask it to confirm how much gross annuity
income Mr J would be receiving if the total of the amounts received from 1,2 and 3
above were applied using the annuity rate on 8 August 2019 on the same terms and
conditions (other than the annuity rate) as it was actually secured.
5. Past Loss JH should calculate:-
 A) Total of all the notional payments which Mr J should have received from this
annuity pension, net of his marginal rate of tax, from the date of commencement of
his current annuity up to the date of settlement under this direction based on the
amounts advised by Mr Js annuity company under 4 above. B) Total of all the actual payments which Mr J has actually received from his
annuity pension, net of his marginal rate of tax, from the date of commencement of
his current annuity up to the date of settlement under this direction
 C) Past Loss = A  B. If the answer is negative, theres a past gain and no redress
is payable if it is positive there is a loss which should be paid to Mr J.
6. In working out the net payments, JH should assume that Mr J was a 20% basic rate 
taxpayer.
7. Such amount as is calculated as a loss under section 5 should be paid together with
interest thereon at the rate of 8% per annum simple form the date each annuity
pension payment should have been paid to the date of actual payment of the arrears
calculated under 5 above, to Mr J under this direction.
8. Future Loss - If there is a Past Loss under 5 above, JH should calculate and make
arrangement to compensate for future loss as follows by calculating the following
D) The pension which Mr J would be receiving had he bought the higher
rate of gross annuity income calculated under 4 and 5 above. (This is the gross
annual amount from which the net instalments used to calculate the total under (A)
were used.)
E) The pension Mr J is currently receiving. (This is the gross annual
amount of his current annuity, from which the net instalments used to calculate the
total under B were used.)
F) Future Gross Loss per year = D  E.
G) JH should make arrangements with Mr Js annuity company or another
annuity company to provide funds to it or another annuity company to increase Mr Js
annuity to the gross pension amount to the level it would have been but for the delay.
If for any reason this is not possible JH should refer to published annuity rate
tables to work out the gross purchase price of a comparable annuity paying the lost
income in F).
H) The purchase price of the annuity found in G) is Mr Js gross future loss. If
it is not possible to increase Mr Js existing annuity or secure another additional
annuity to increase the amount of annual pension needed to compensate for future
loss the amount required to purchase such an annuity should be paid directly to Mr J
as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for income tax that would
otherwise have been paid at his likely rate on the income in F  presumed to be
20%.
JH should also pay Mr J £200 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct that James Hay Administration Company Ltd should:-
1. within 30 days of this service notifying JH that Mr J has accepted my final decision pay 
Mr J £200 for distress and inconvenience. 2. within 30 days of this service notifying it that Mr J has accepts my final decision, it
should calculate whether there has been any financial loss on the basis set out
above and provide Mr J with details of those calculations.
3. If there is a financial loss it should make arrangement:-
(a) To pay compensation for future loss to Mr J within 60 days of this service
notifying it that Mr J has accepted my final decision and such payment to be
either by way or increased annuity or lump sum payment as set out in my redress
calculation.
(b) to pay any arrears of annuity income for past loss with interest at 8% per
annum simple on the basis set out above within 60 days of this service notifying it
that Mr J has accepted my final decision.
4. If payment of compensation set out above for future loss is not made within 60 days
of JH receiving Mr Js acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the
compensation for future loss, at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision to the date of payment.
5. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If JH deducts income tax from the
interest, it should tell Mr J how much has been taken off. JH should give Mr J a tax
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr J asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman