DRN-3480814
The complaint
Mr J complains that he was not told by TSB Bank plc (TSB) about a key change to his 
Premier Account (PA) in September 2019 and he lost out as a result.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
What happened
Mr J says that TSB removed the home emergency cover element of his PA benefits in 
September 2019 and didnt tell him. He says that had he known about the change he would 
have cancelled the PA.
Mr J wants all his monthly fees refunded from September 2019 until when he tried to make 
a claim on the home emergency cover in July 2021.
TSB admits it failed to inform him in 2019 but says that subsequent update letters it sent in 
2020 and 2021 told him what was in the PA and he would have known then.
TSB also says it offered itself to honour a claim Mr J made in July 2021 by paying the cost 
of addressing a water leak in line with the policy. And it says it offered him £50 for the 
distress and inconvenience.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this matter dont appear to be in dispute, so Ill focus on the reasons for my 
provisional decision.
In my view TSB failed to give Mr J an option whether to continue with his account in 
September 2019. So, this was a mis-sale.
Ive looked carefully at the Annual Eligibility statements TSB sent Mr J in 2020 and 2021. 
While I agree that the letters explain what is included in the PA, I can understand that in 
the circumstances Mr J was in where he has not been informed at all about a major 
change and he was paying the same fee, he may not have looked carefully at such letters.
And as Mr J went to the trouble of trying to make a claim in 2021, I think its more likely 
than not the annual eligibility letters didnt draw his attention sufficiently in his 
circumstances to the removal of the home emergency cover benefit.
If he had been told about this change to his benefits, it would have been for him to decide 
whether to continue paying his monthly fee for the account. But he wasnt given this choice.
So, Im minded to uphold his complaint.
Putting things right
Im minded to require TSB Bank Plc to:
Pay Mr J the amount Mr J paid each month for the Premier Account 
from October 2019 until July 2021.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid them until he gets 
them back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr J has saved money because of a better rate on his overdraft or any loan 
by having the packaged account and TSB can show exactly how much Mr J 
saved, it may deduct his savings from the amount it pays him  but only after it 
has calculated the two points above. TSB must explain clearly and simply to Mr 
J how it has worked out any deductions.
If TSB paid Mr J any money to address his home emergency claim in July 
2021, it may deduct this from the amount it pays him  but again only after it 
has calculated the first two points above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must 
give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision above, TSB has argued that Mr J used a range of 
benefits other than the home emergency cover before 2019 so he would still have wanted 
the PA after the latter was removed. And it says its subsequent annual eligibility statements 
clearly didnt show the home emergency cover as a benefit in 2020 or 2021.
I understand the point that TSB makes but it has accepted it didnt tell Mr J about the change 
in 2019 and so in my view denied him the choice whether to continue or not with the PA 
which is a mis-sale. And the subsequent letters notify him by omission rather than by 
specifically drawing his attention to the change, so I think its more likely than not that he 
missed that the change had happened as he said he did.
So, my conclusions remain as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I require TSB Bank plc to pay Mr J redress as specified in the Putting things right section of 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint and require TSB Bank plc to pay him 
redress as specified above,Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman