DRN-1984154
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Unum Ltd has dealt with his claim. 
 
What happened
Mr M has a group income protection policy through his employer, underwritten by Unum. In 
2017, Mr M had an accident and wasnt able to work due to illness and injury and he made a 
claim. Unum accepted the claim which had a limited period of two years. After this, Unum 
said Mr M no longer met the conditions of the policy and stopped his benefit. 
Mr M disagreed and said Unum failed to consider all of the medical evidence. He referred his 
complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Unum hadnt acted fairly. He said it 
should have carried out further investigations and asked it to undertake an independent 
medical examination and reassess the claim. But it disagreed and said it thought too much 
time had passed and any assessment now wouldnt be relevant to Mr Ms mental health 
condition at the termination date. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Under the policy terms and conditions, the definition of incapacity for any gainful occupation 
is as follows:
You are unable, because of illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of a) your insured occupation and b) any gainful occupation with any employer 
for which you are reasonably fitted by reason of training, education or experience.
If Mr M met the new definition, he would be entitled to a lump sum payment.  The two-year 
limited payment period ended in September 2019. Unum completed a transferable skills 
analysis which identified two possible occupations for M based on his skills. Mr M also 
provided a psychiatric report which Unum reviewed. But it said the report didnt clearly define 
a mental health condition and it was inconclusive and incomplete. 
Mr Ms medical records show that he had been prescribed anti-depressants in July 2019 and 
had also seen a consultant psychiatrist in November 2019. Mr M also has other health 
issues including tinnitus and neck, back and arm pain. 
Its for Unum to show, based on the medical evidence, that Mr M no longer meets the policy 
definition. But I dont think it has done this. 
Unum decided Mr M didnt meet the definition of incapacity without asking for further 
clarification from the psychiatrist and without completing a full assessment based on all of Mr 
Ms health problems, including his mental health. I think Unum should now ask the 
psychiatrist to clarify his opinion and complete the report and comment on Mr Ms ability to 
work in the occupations identified as being suitable. 
I would have expected Unum to have done this at the time, before making a decision. If the 
psychiatrist is unable to comment on Mr Ms ability to work, a suitable occupational specialist 
should be asked to consider the evidence as a whole before reaching a decision. 
Unum says it has now been a considerable period of time since the termination date of the 
claim. And any further psychiatric report would be retrospective and inaccurate. I disagree. 
Unum can pose questions to the psychiatrist to consider the medical evidence from Mr Ms 
GP from 2019.
  
Putting things right
Unum should reassess the claim. It should carry out further investigations by asking the 
psychiatrist to provide his completed opinion, and it should also request an appropriate 
independent medical examination to take into account all of the medical evidence to 
consider Mr Ms ability to work in the occupations identified. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Unum Ltd to do what Ive 
set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman