DRN-2365798
The complaint
Mrs C complains that J D Williams & Company Limited lent to her irresponsibly by increasing 
her credit limit.
What happened
In September 2014 Mrs C opened an account with Jacamo. Her initial credit limit was £100, 
which was increased eleven times over time until the last increase to £3000 in January 2017.
In March 2017 Mrs C opened an account with Simply Be. Her initial credit limit was £150p, 
which was increased eight times until the last increase to £2250 in October 2018.
Mrs C is unhappy that the credit limits on these accounts were increased. She says the 
interest and charges applied meant that she was unable to repay the accounts and she fell 
into financial difficulties, resorting to short term borrowing and ultimately seeking assistance 
from a third-party debt management company.
Both accounts have now been passed to debt collection agencies.
Mrs C feels that J D Williams lent to her irresponsibly. She wants a refund of interest and 
charges and for any adverse information to be removed from her credit file.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although the credit limits had been 
increased on both accounts, there was nothing to suggest that J D Williams had acted 
irresponsibly by offering further borrowing.
Mrs C didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jacamo account
Ive looked at the account history and I can see that Mrs C started missing payments in or 
around December 2018. Prior to this, shed been making minimum payments every month.
I can see that the credit limit was increased several times between December 2014 and 
January 2017. Looking at the dates of the credit limit increases, I can see that Mrs Cs 
account was up to date at the times when the credit limit increases were given. This is with 
the exception of the increase in March 2015, when the credit limit was increased even 
though Mrs C hadnt paid all of the minimum payment.
Ive thought about whether J D Williams acted irresponsibly and in doing so, Ive taken the 
relevant provisions of the consumer credit sourcebook into account. These say  amongst 
other things  that a credit limit shouldnt be increased where a consumer is consecutively 
failing to meet repayments.
Therefore, if Mrs C was missing repayments regularly, or failing to make the full minimum 
payment, I wouldnt expect J D Williams to increase the credit limit. However, as Ive said, 
theres only one occasion when Mrs C didnt pay the full minimum payment. For the rest of 
the time, she made the minimum payments every month. 
Ive also considered whether Mrs C had adverse entries on her credit file, and whether 
theres anything to suggest that she was unable to make repayments out of her disposable 
income. Ive done this because these are also factors which might indicate that a consumer 
is in financial difficulty.
Ive looked at Mrs Cs credit file. This shows that Mrs Cs last default was recorded over 2 
years before the credit limit on the account was increased. So I dont think there was 
anything on the credit file for J D Williams to be concerned about.
Mrs C has said that she took out short term borrowing to meet her financial obligations. Ive 
reviewed the available information but I havent been able to identify any short term 
borrowing. Mrs Cs bank statements show that her account was generally in credit. Based on 
what Ive seen, Im unable to say that there was evidence of Mrs C being unable to make 
repayments to J D Williams out of disposable income, or having to borrow to repay existing 
debts.
Based on what Ive seen, Im unable to say that J D Williams acted irresponsibly by 
increasing the credit limit on this account.
Simply Be
Ive reviewed the account and Ive taken into account the consumer credit provisions as 
before to decided whether J D Williams acted irresponsibly. On balance, Im unable to say 
that it has done anything wrong. The account was generally well managed and the credit 
limit wasnt increased when there were missed payments. As before, I havent found 
evidence of adverse entries on Mrs Cs credit file, or any evidence that she was unable to 
meet repayments out of disposable income.
Financial difficulties
I appreciate that Mrs C has experienced some financial difficulties. These appear to have 
arisen sometime after the credit limit increases were applied to the accounts. Where a 
consumer experiences financial difficulties, Id expect a business to respond positively and 
sympathetically. I can see that Mrs C told J D Williams about her financial difficulties in 
January 2019. In response, it placed both accounts on agreed payments arrangements ad 
froze interest. It also signposted Mrs C to third party debt advice. Based on what Ive seen, I 
think J D Williams responded appropriately to Mrs C.
Taking all the circumstances of this complaint into account, Im unable to say that J d 
Williams acted irresponsibly by offering the credit limit increases. I wont be asking it to 
refund interest and charges, or to do anything further.
My final decisionYour text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman