DRN-3409544
The complaint
The estate of Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) has refused to 
refund transactions the late Mr H made (using his Nationwide Visa credit card) to a 
fraudulent investment company (Acervo).
Ms H is the late Mr Hs daughter.  She is one of the executors of his estate and the 
representative in this matter.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Ms H has told our service the following:
Acervo persuaded her late father to invest with them.
All conversations and transactions were by phone.  Initially it was a small sum and 
then each month [her late father was] badgered by the Salesman the amount 
increased.
In June 2016, she became aware of the above and persuaded her late father not to 
invest further.
She then discovered her late father had made further payments to Acervo in June 
and August 2016.
Her late father did not authorise the June and August 2016 payments because she, 
 heard him on the phone tell the salesman that he was not investing any more 
until he saw evidence of a return.
She acknowledges her late father should bear responsibility for the initial payments.  
However, she argues that the payments made in June and August 2016 were 
unauthorised and made without her late fathers consent.
Her late father was 97 years old in 2016 and could not use a computer.
All the payments were made via telephone, rather than online.
Eventually, back in 2016, the whole matter was causing such distress and a serious 
rift between Dad and I, that I let the matter drop.
Since my fathers death, naturally, all the paperwork has been reviewed with the 
lawyers and I feel strongly that Nationwide have been negligent in this matter 
The following payments were made using the late Mr Hs Nationwide Visa credit card:
Date Merchant Amount
1 March 2016 Acervogroup London £2,500
3 May 2016 Acervogroup London £2,400
5 May 2016 Acervogroup London £2,400
15 June 2016 Acervo Group £2,400
15 June 2016 Acervo Group £2,400
10 August 2016 Acervo Group £2,400
10 August 2016 Acervo Group £2,400
Total amount debited: £16,900
Ms H asked Nationwide to try to recover some of her late fathers money.  Because she 
believed the first three payments were authorised by her late father, but the remaining four 
were not  she only disputed the June and August 2016 payments (totalling £9,600).  As 
Nationwide did not refund the money, Ms H raised a complaint which she also referred to our 
service.
Nationwide has said:
It no longer has transaction information relating to the payments concerned.
The late Mr H and his daughter contacted it in 2016 about the payments, but they 
later advised that the,  dispute with the Society was no longer in place as the 
member resolved the issue with the merchant direct.
In October 2019, Ms H contacted it disputing the £9,600 (set out above).
 the payments were made online and passed the verified visa security system.  
Therefore, this would suggest the payments were authorsied on each occasion via a 
website.  We could also see that the full balance of the credit card was cleared each 
month after these payments were made which would suggest [Mr H] was aware of 
the activity and agreed to it.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  She said that she was not 
satisfied that Nationwide had provided sufficient evidence to suggest the payments were 
authenticated, so she did not need to consider consent.  For this reason, she was not 
satisfied that the June and August 2016 payments were authorised and so the late Mr H 
could not be held liable for them.  The investigator went on to say had a chargeback been 
raised, there would have been no reasonable prospect of success through Visas 
chargeback scheme due to the nature of the late Mr Hs claim.  However, she argued that in 
her view, the late Mr H did have a valid claim for misrepresentation and breach of contract 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, so she suggested Nationwide refund the 
June and August 2016 payments only.
Ms H accepted the investigators findings.
Nationwide responded stating it had found details showing the payments were authenticated 
and made online.  It also said the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) warning about 
Acervo  which the investigator made reference to  was published after the payments were 
made.  Nationwide asked whether these points changed the investigators view of the 
complaint  she responded stating it did not.  Nationwide said that it would respond again, 
but it has not.
Because of this, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
On 22 March 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I should say at the outset that based on the evidence before me, I am satisfied that all the 
payments concerned were authorised by the late Mr H.  
For this reason, I have considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold the late 
Mr Hs complaint on the basis that Nationwide is liable to him under section 75 for all the 
payments.  As a starting point, I think it would be helpful if I set out what the section says:
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor 
 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise, there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000.
Debtor-creditor-supplier agreement
First, there does not seem to be any dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement under the 1974 Act.  And, I am satisfied here there is nothing 
that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  insomuch as there are three parties 
involved:
1. The late Mr H (the debtor);
2. Nationwide (the creditor); and
3. Acervo (the supplier)  as shown on the documents Ms H has provided and on 
Nationwides business file submissions.
A transaction financed by the agreement
Secondly, the next consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
Transaction is not defined in the 1974 Act, but it has generally been given a wide 
interpretation by the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal.  
Here, the late Mr H has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to 
use those funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he 
wished. Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  I am 
satisfied there were transactions (which I will call the deposit-transactions) as defined by 
section 75.
Again, to finance, is not defined in the 1974 Act.  An ordinary definition would be to provide 
funds to do something.  In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004], Miss Justice 
Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed, The phrase to finance 
approaching the matter in a common sense way must mean provide financial 
accommodation in respect of  A credit card issuer clearly provides financial accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to his purchases from suppliers, because he is 
given time to pay for his purchase under the terms of the credit card agreement.  
Applying that ordinary definition here, if the late Mr H had not used his credit card, he would 
have had to find the cash from his own resources to fund the deposit transactions and obtain 
the investment account this supposedly entitled him to.  So, it is clear that the deposit-
transactions were financed by the agreement. 
A claim related to that transaction
Thirdly, a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract must relate to the transaction.  It 
is important to consider what the late Mr Hs claim is here.  It is evident from what his 
daughter has said and the evidence she has provided  that she feels her late father was 
tricked into depositing the payments with Acervo for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging the late Mr H to deposit further amounts. 
Ms H does not believe that Acervo were operating legitimately and believes her late father 
was misled into thinking they were.
This claim, that the late Mr H was misled into depositing funds, is clearly a claim in relation 
to the deposit-transactions.  The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.  In this case, if the late Mr H was told by Acervo matters that were factually untrue 
in order to trick him into entering into the deposit-transactions, his claim would be for 
misrepresentation.  Or, if the merchant made binding promises to him as part of those 
transactions and went on to breach these that would make his claim one for breach of 
contract.  
Cash price value
Finally, the claim must not relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash 
price of less than £100 or more than £30,000.  Here, the cash price of the deposit-
transaction is the value of that deposit-transaction.  It is both the consideration and subject 
matter of the contract. 
For the reasons set out above, I am satisfied that section 75 does apply to the credit card 
deposit-transactions in this case.
I will therefore go on to consider whether the late Mr H has a valid claim for 
misrepresentation and/or breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider the late Mr H has a claim of misrepresentation against Acervo  that claim being 
that they represented to him that they were a legitimate enterprise when this was not the 
case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful, it is necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact, but also that the statement induced the late Mr H into entering into an 
agreement. 
A false statement of factIf I am satisfied that Acervo were not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise  one in 
which the late Mr H could never have received back more money than he deposited  then it 
follows that any statements made by Acervo to the contrary are likely to be a 
misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that the late Mr H could make money from the platform is likely to 
suffice as entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it 
operated a legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could 
profitably trade.  And, I am satisfied that based on what Ms H has said  including the 
evidence before me and the nature of the situation  Acervo did claim that her late father 
could have made money from the trading platform.
That induced him into entering the agreement
Again, had the late Mr H known that the trading platform was essentially a scam, designed to 
relieve investors of their money, rather than a legitimate service  there is really little 
question, to my mind, of him not investing with Acervo.  Consequently, should I be satisfied 
that Acervo is not operating a legitimate enterprise, then inducement will also be 
demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Before discussing this in more detail, I should mention that I have found what Ms H has said 
about her late fathers situation to be both detailed and compelling.  But more than this, it is 
corroborated not just by other complaints of this nature, but specific complaints against 
Acervo.  Because of this, Im minded to find Ms Hs account to be truthful.
So, turning to what Ms H has provided by way of evidence (including her testimony set out 
above):
An email from the late Mr H to Acervo requesting a refund of his funds (£9,600) and 
instruction that no further payments should be taken.  In this email, he also stated 
that he did not authorise his credit card to be debited £9,600.
Acervos response email stating, amongst other things, The amounts taken each 
time have been on a basis of £2400GBP x 2 due to a particular agreement [Mr H] 
and Mason have.  This agreement also does qualify [Mr H] for income and as per our 
terms and conditions [Mr H] has been informed funds are accessible every 12 
months.
A further email from Acervo to the late Mr H stating, amongst other things, that 
transaction verification forms would need to be signed, dated and sent back before 
any funds could be released once,  we reach our profit realising stage.
An email from Ms H to Acervo expressing her concerns about her late fathers 
dealings with them.
An Acervo traders declaration with the late Mr Hs personal details set out.
Other various Acervo documents.
There is a body of external information available through various regulators, law 
enforcement agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that repeat the tactics used by Acervo.  This does lead me to seriously question whether any 
actual trades were being placed on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact 
Acervo offered little more than a video game or simulation.
There is further evidence in the form of a warning on the FCAs website dated 13 July 2017.  
Although the warning was published after the payments concerned, it nonetheless suggests 
Acervo may not have been acting legitimately:
Almost all firms and individuals carrying out financial services activities in the UK have to be 
authorised or registered by us. This firm is not authorised or registered by us but has been 
targeting people in the UK, claiming to be an authorised firm.  This is what we call a 'clone 
firm'; and fraudsters usually use this tactic when contacting people out of the blue, so you 
should be especially wary if you have been cold called. They may use the name of the 
genuine firm, the 'firm reference number' (FRN) we have given the authorised firm or other 
details.
In summary
I do not think it is likely Acervo were operating a legitimate enterprise.  So, I am persuaded 
they made misrepresentations to the late Mr H.  That is, that they were running a genuine 
enterprise through which he could never have got back more than his deposits from the 
platform.  I am also satisfied that if the late Mr H had known this, he would not have 
deposited any money, so he was induced into the contract on the basis of these 
misrepresentations.
Breach of contract
Here, the late Mr H has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to 
use those funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he 
wished.  Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  I am 
satisfied there was a transaction (the deposit-transaction) as defined by section 75.
It follows, I think, that Acervo had contractual obligations:
a) To enable the late Mr H to use the funds from his deposits on an investment platform; 
and 
b) To enable the late Mr H to withdraw the funds deposited as and when he wished.
The late Mr H was not able to use the funds from his deposits on the investment platform.  
Further, it appears Acervo prevented him from withdrawing funds from his trading account 
when he wanted to.  Taking these points together, I am satisfied that Acervo breached the 
above contractual obligations.
It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, the late Mr Hs loss amounts to the 
full amount of each of his deposits.
Putting things right
Ive established two grounds the late Mr H could have recovered his deposit-transactions:
Misrepresentation: I am satisfied the late Mr H has a claim for misrepresentation on 
the grounds that Acervo made a series of misrepresentations, namely that it was 
operating a legitimate enterprise and that the late Mr H could access his money 
freely and earn a profit from his deposit-transactions. Breach of contract: I am satisfied the late Mr H also has a claim for breach of contract 
as Acervo breached their verbal promises to him.  Namely, that he could use the 
funds from his deposits on an investment platform, and withdraw funds deposited as 
and when he wished.  This provides another basis for recovery. 
As a claim for misrepresentation gives the highest sum, Nationwide should put the late Mr H 
back into the position he would have been had all the deposit-transactions (totalling £16,900) 
not been entered into.  So, his estate should receive refunds of these amounts.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms H responded to say she agreed with my provisional findings and was happy with the 
outcome.  Nationwide responded stating it had considered my decision and had nothing 
further to add.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Ms H agrees with my provisional findings and Nationwide has nothing further to 
add  I see no reason to depart from them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.  I therefore direct Nationwide Building 
Society:
Pay the estate of Mr H all the money the late Mr H lost (totalling £16,900)  within 28 
days of receiving notification of acceptance of my final decision; plus
Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it was debited from the late Mr Hs 
account until the date of settlement.
If Nationwide Building Society deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this 
award, it should provide the estate of Mr H with the appropriate tax deduction 
certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman