DRN-2960981
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the way Fairmead Insurance Limited handled his landlord insurance
claim. I will refer to any business acting on behalf of the insurer as Fairmead.
What happened
Mr T submitted an insurance claim in September 2020, after tenants had vacated his
property. He felt there was a significant amount of damage which could be considered either
malicious or accidental. He also noted some items which were missing altogether, and which
could have been stolen.
Fairmead initially rejected Mr Ts claim saying no insured peril had been shown to have
happened. They felt there was no evidence to suggest there was malicious intent behind the
damage, and that it appeared to be more gradual deterioration than accidental damage.
Mr T wasnt happy with that and continued to correspond with Fairmead. He said it was
impossible to know exactly how the damage was caused because he wasnt there and isnt
allowed CCTV to watch over things all the time.
It was agreed for Mr T to provide a definitive list of damage and cause for each room, so a
comprehensive response could be provided.
Following this Fairmead still considered much of the damage to be wear and tear or
maintenance issues. But, in October 2020 they agreed to consider various areas which they
accepted may be covered under the policy. They asked Mr T to provide quotes, and said
there could be an excess applied for each item claimed.
In November 2020 Mr T explained that finding quotes would be difficult due to the pandemic,
he also advised that his property was for sale. Fairmead then issued a final response letter
which caused Mr T further dissatisfaction as he didnt consider it to progress the matter.
Nevertheless, Mr T was able to provide some quotes in December 2020. They were as
follows:
£4,260 to investigate and fix a water leak, redecoration, fix a utility room worktop, replace 
tiling and replace the toilet cistern.
£2,340.42 for garden plants, a skip and labour.
£2,810.77 to replace carpets.
Mr T also wanted to claim for the house alarm, two missing carbon monoxide detectors and
broken smoke alarms.
In January 2021, Fairmead asked Mr T for a breakdown of costs for the estimates, and said
if that wasnt possible, they may be able to reach a compromise to draw matters to a close.
Mr T chased Fairmead for a response later that month and they explained that they were still
waiting for a breakdown of costs so they could determine which parts were covered.
As this wasnt provided, Mr T says he didnt know what they meant by a breakdown of costs,
Fairmead tried to obtain this themselves. But in February 2021, they explained to Mr T that
theyd been unsuccessful, so proposed a visit to the property to assess things more
thoroughly than they could just using photos.
Mr T replied to explain that hed sold his house now, so no inspection was possible. He
asked for settlement of his claim in one week and to be compensated with £500.
Fairmead then explained that the damage/losses were likely to have been caused at
different times and therefore it could be argued that each event would lead to a separate
excess. But they said to be fair to Mr T, they would only apply one per peril they were paying
under, i.e. theft, accidental/malicious damage and escape of water.
They also said theyd deal with it as just one claim as well, to save Mr T from having a large
claim history that might affect future premiums. Fairmead offered the following settlement:
£372.38, less the £250 excess for redecoration following the escape of water.
£2,274.79, less £100 excess for replacing damaged carpets, the smoke alarm, the 
lounge blind and the worktop stand.
£523.45 less the £100 excess for replacement garden plants (including labour) and two 
carbon monoxide sensors.
Mr T wasnt happy with that offer; he didnt think it was sufficient and explained that it was
harder to get competitive quotes for work due to the pandemic. He also said it didnt include
the toilet cistern or the faulty house alarm.
Fairmead replied to say the offer was final.
Dissatisfied with that, Mr T brought the matter to our service. An investigator here looked into
it and said they felt Fairmead had handled the claim fairly, agreeing that much of what
seemed to be being claimed for amounted to neglect or wear and tear  things which arent
covered by the policy.
Mr T didnt agree, he said he was unhappy with Fairmeads initial rejection of his claim and
with how long it took them to make a payment. Mr T said its impossible to show what
caused the damage, i.e. whether it was an accident, done with malicious intent or something
else.
Mr T also said he didnt claim for theft of plants as he doesnt know why they arent there
anymore, just that theyve gone. And he pointed out that replacing a ten-year old garden
plant with a much younger one isnt a like for like replacement.
He said the cistern still hadnt been included in the settlement and that the walls required
redecoration. Mr T said the smoke alarm hadnt been covered either.
The investigator replied, agreeing with Mr T that it can be very difficult to show the cause of
damage. But they maintained their view that based on the photographs most, if not all of it,
was wear and tear or neglect. And this was reflected in Mr Ts own descriptions of his
photos.
The investigator agreed that the damage to the cistern could have been caused accidentally
and Fairmead agreed with them, offering a further £98.26 in respect of it.
Mr T still wasnt happy with this and asked for it to be escalated to an ombudsman. He also
provided a further quote for replacing his carpets.
I issued a provisional decision as followsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont wish to appear impolite, but Id like to start by explaining that I dont intend to respond
to each and every point made by Mr T. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal
alternative dispute resolution provider. I have, however, taken care to review everything he
has provided and have taken on board the points hes made.
When considering cases such as this its important to refer to the policy terms and
conditions, because they dictate what Mr T can and cant claim for. Importantly, it says the
following:
Property Maintenance
It is Your responsibility to maintain and look after Your Home property. Your Policy is
intended to provide You with cover against events that are sudden and unforeseen, for
example fire or flood. It will not cover You for damage that happens gradually over time like
damp, or rot, or for damage caused by wear and tear, or for, general maintenance costs
such as repairs to defective rendering or general roof repairs.
Fairmead considered the most appropriate heads of cover to be theft, accidental damage,
malicious damage and escape of water. Theft related in the main to the garden plants. I
appreciate what Mr T says about not knowing the cause, but he did speculate himself at one
point that they could have been stolen. In relation to this, Mr Ts policy says:
Damage to Gardens
We will pay for trees, shrubs, plants and lawns following loss or damage insured under
points 1  5 & 7 of Section 1  Buildings.
Points one to five and seven do not include theft, and do not include anything else which
there appears to be evidence to support. It seems to me most likely that they were either
taken without consent by someone, or died and were removed. So, I think it was generous of
Fairmead to offer settlement in that respect, because I dont think they needed to. In view of
that I cant say the amount they offered was unfair.
Mr Ts policy includes cover for malicious damage and theft caused by tenants. It also
includes accidental damage caused by tenants. I accept Mr Ts argument that he cant know
whether damage was caused maliciously or accidentally. But I dont think thats necessarily
important here, as long as it can be reasonably said it was either of them.
Fairmead initially rejected Mr Ts claim, saying they felt the damage was largely wear and
tear or neglect, neither of which would count as malicious or accidental. I dont think this was
necessarily right, but I can understand it given how the majority of the claim was for wear
and tear and note that Mr T has referred to things being dirty, rotten, scratched and cracked.
These are typical of wear and tear rather than what you might think of as malicious or
accidental. Its possible the damage was caused by individual accidents or done with
malicious intent, but there are no clear signs that happened. I think for the most part, the
damage more likely occurred over the course of the tenancy.
I also note that Mr T has referred to his alarms as not working and sometimes as faulty. But
as stated earlier, this isnt a maintenance contract so wont cover things that are faulty or that
just stop working.
Landlords will usually complete an inventory at the start of a tenancy and ask their tenant to
pay a deposit to cover any maintenance or redecoration required at the end. I dont knowwhether or not Mr T did that, but either way insurance isnt intended as a substitute for it.
Its possible some of the damage was covered by the policy, the more obvious things like
broken window blinds comes to mind. So, it was reasonable for Fairmead to reconsider this
when challenged by Mr T. Having done so I dont think I can say their offer of settlement was
unfair. It included a substantial amount for the carpets, which Mr T has described as dirty
and damaged. But a dirty carpet wouldnt generally be covered, and some of what he
describes as damage appears to me to be indentations from furniture. That again, would be
considered as wear and tear.
Overall, I think Fairmead has made a reasonable offer in respect of accidental/malicious
damage  with the majority suitably seen as wear and tear or neglect. As such I cant say
they shouldve offered more. And I dont agree the cistern needed to be included in the
claim, although if Fairmead wishes to pay that they may still do so.
Turning to the escape of water, Mr Ts policy covers loss or damage caused by escape of
water from, or frost damage to, fixed water tanks, apparatus or pipes. As far as Im aware,
Faimead accepted this on face value as the cause isnt known. And while Mr T doesnt feel
its sufficient, Ive considered the matter overall. And as there are things which appear to me
to have been included generously, I think Mr T has received a reasonable settlement.
I appreciate it took some time for the claim to be settled, but I dont think that was all caused
by Fairmead. They rejected the claim outright to begin with but then agreed to consider it
further, within a matter of weeks, on receipt of evidence from Mr T. It took him some time to
provide that evidence  understandably given Coronavirus restrictions  and then it wasnt
deemed suitable, because it included things which werent covered.
In view of that, Fairmead then made an offer. So, while things couldve been quicker, I dont
think there have been any significant periods of inactivity, without reason, on Fairmeads part
I can see how frustrating Mr T has found the matter to deal with, but I think much of what
hes claiming for just isnt covered by his policy. Mr T complained twice and has raised
dissatisfaction with that too. But complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, and even if I
were to wrap it up as an extension of the claim handling, I dont agree that Fairmead did a
terrible job, even though at times they mightve caused confusion.
I also think Fairmead was fair to apply just three excesses, one for each type of claim,
escape of water, theft and accidental/malicious damage. And it was fair for them to treat it as
one claim, even though its unlikely each peril happened in the same incident at the same
time.
All things considered, Fairmead treated Mr T fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairmead responded to my provisional decision to say they had nothing further to provide.
Mr T also responded to my provisional decision, he didnt agree with it. He said there were 
photos showing burn marks to carpets in four different rooms. He provided photos of those, 
some of which Id already seen. One of the photos looked more like an imprint from heavy 
furniture than a burn, Id previously explained that imprints wouldnt be covered. And another 
one of the photos didnt look like a burn to me, and had been described as a heavy stain 
previously  so Im not persuaded four carpets had been burnt. And I still think Fairmead was generous in their settlement even though it was less than Mr T wanted.
Mr T asked how my opinion can trump that of an independent expert who has verified the 
cause of damage. But Ive not seen any such verification unless he means the descriptions 
on the photographs, and I have to go with what I think is most likely. If something is 
described as a heavy stain, I dont think that can later be put down as a typographical error. 
Mr T said my conclusion that it didnt matter whether the damage was malicious or 
accidental was biased and that Fairmead asking for the cause of damage was 
unreasonable. But I dont agree Fairmeads questions were unreasonable. Mr Ts policy 
covers him for accidental and malicious damage  so in a sense it doesnt matter which of 
those two things were the cause  but when assessing claims of this nature insurers will 
want to know the cause of damage.
Thats because sometimes damage will have been caused by something other than 
malicious acts or accidents. And damage caused by different means might not be covered, 
different or multiple excesses may apply or a different number of claims need to be 
registered. Insurers will also want to know what types of damage theyre paying out for so 
they can consider the risks associated with them for any renewal. Since Fairmead decided 
not to apply an excess for each instance of damage, and to only register one claim, that 
became less important and I think Fairmead treated Mr T fairly by doing this. If theyd treated 
each and every instance of damage as a separate claim Mr T would have to declare many 
claims to his insurers and would likely be charged more as a result.
Mr T said he encouraged a house visit over the phone, and that had one taken place before 
he sold the property, the claim couldve been assessed more thoroughly. I dont know if Mr T 
did encourage this, but I have seen that when Fairmead suggested a video call assessment 
his preference was for photographs to be provided in the first instance. I understand why
Mr T felt a video assessment may not be productive, but I dont think using photographs is 
an unreasonable way to assess a claim and thats how many claims are assessed. I think 
there is reasonable enough photographic evidence of the damage and so dont think Mr T 
wouldve received any more from Fairmead if theyve been able to visit the property before it 
had been sold.
Mr T said there was no mention in my provisional decision about patchwork painting the 
tenants carried out to the house, and the fact theyd failed to redecorate as promised.
Ive reminded Mr T that his contract of insurance is not a maintenance policy, and that it 
would appear his tenants neglected to maintain his property to his liking. Landlords take 
deposits and inventories for dealing with many of the issues that hes claiming for. And that 
would include patchwork painting and redecoration. So those issues would be between Mr T 
and his tenants rather than things his insurers should cover.
Mr T questioned why patchwork painting isnt malicious. I just dont think it is, malicious 
damage is usually very obvious. If someone had thrown a tin of paint over the wall, that 
could be considered malicious. But a bit of patchwork painting just isnt the same as that. 
And I note that many of the photos Mr T sent as part of his claim carry descriptions such as 
dirty, dusty, rusty, filthy, limescale and rotten. There was also a picture of a full bin, a hair pin 
left on a carpet and furniture left behind. The insurance just isnt there to step in if tenants 
dont look after a property or fail to keep to their promises.
Mr T didnt agree with this and asked how a non-functioning smoke alarm doesnt fall under 
a category of damage. But Ive explained previously that just because something doesnt 
work anymore it doesnt automatically follow that its covered. Mr T has described alarms as 
not working and sometimes faulty. That would generally be classed as wear and tear unless an identifiable cause such as accidental or malicious damage can be found  which in this 
case it hasnt, as Mr Ts descriptions attest. It is not for Fairmead to prove the damage 
wasnt accidental or malicious unless Mr T has first demonstrated that it was. And the test is 
one of the balance of probabilities rather than undeniable proof.
Having considered everything carefully again, I still think Fairmead handled Mr Ts claim 
fairly, and I think they paid him for things they didnt need to.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman