DRN-3905295
The complaint
Mrs H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc passed her data to a third-party debt collector 
unlawfully, without her consent. She also complains that HSBC did not handle her complaint 
correctly.
What happened
Mrs H had a credit card with HSBC. In 2014, HSBC said the account defaulted  but Mrs H 
disputes this. In 2021, HSBC passed the debt to a third party to recover the debt.
Mrs H complains:
HSBC transferred her debt to a third party debt collector without her authority or consent.
About the way that HSBC dealt with her complaint.
HSBC said her signature didnt match its records and has ignored her request for her 
husband to represent her.
Under the Law of Property Act 1925 section 136 only all of a debt can be assigned to a 
third party  not part of it as HSBC has done. That is reflected in HSBCs terms and 
conditions. 
The debt collector should return her data to HSBC and remove all records it holds.
HSBC hasnt complied with a subject access request.
She is being treated differently to her husband. They have always dealt with their debt 
issues together. Yet she is being treated differently to her husband.
I issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings, which form part of this decision were:
Under our rules must determine a complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. In considering what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of a case I will take into account relevant:
law and regulations;
regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.

default
HSBC said that Mrs Hs account defaulted in 2014. I asked it for evidence of that. HSBC said 
it didnt have evidence from the time in question, due to the passage of time. That isnt 
unusual. 
HSBC has given us evidence that:
It hasnt charged interest on Mrs Hs debt since at least 2016.
The records on its systems shows the account being transferred to its internal debt 
collector on 14 November 2014.
The account was transferred to a different computer system on 14 November 2014, used 
by its internal debt collector. 
Part of Mrs Hs complaint is that HSBC should write off the debt following receipt of income 
and expenditure information from her and her husband. It would be unusual for a consumer 
to provide such information to a lender if they were up to date.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) said that a default should be recorded where 
there are between three and six months in arrears on an account and the relationship 
between lender and borrower has broken down.
Based on the evidence available to me, I consider it more likely than not that Mrs Hs 
account was in default. It would be unusual for a lender to transfer the debt to its debt 
collection department and to not apply interest if the account had not defaulted.
transfer to debt collector
HSBC has relied on its terms and conditions to transfer the debt to a third party debt 
collector:
10. General
a We may at any time transfer our rights and/or our obligations under this Agreement to 
someone else. If we do this, it will not affect your rights and /or obligations. You may not 
transfer any of your rights and/or obligations.
Mrs H said that by transferring the debt to a third party it has assigned part of the debt. That 
goes against the Law of Property Act 1925 section 136, which allows only a full assignment 
of a debt. The law takes precedence over any terms and conditions.
I dont consider that Mrs Hs debt was assigned to the third party, either fully or partially. I 
say that because HSBC retained the debt. The debt collector was merely collecting the debt 
on its behalf. This is a regulated activity  and is standard banking practice. I consider it 
would be difficult for me to find that HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably by engaging a 
third party to carry out an activity that the FCA has regulated. And the same rules (and 
requirement to treat Mrs H fairly) apply to the debt collector and HSBC. So I cant see any 
detriment to Mrs H by the referral to the debt collector. 
Mrs H also argues that HSBC has breached the Data Protection Act 2018 and General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR) by passing her personal data to the debt collector. The ICO 
would deal with any breach of the Data Protection Act. It is something I must take into 
account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint. 
HSBC passed Mrs Hs data to a third party. The terms and conditions of the account allowed 
for that:
11. Your information
Confidentialitya Information we hold about you will not be disclosed to anyone (including other members of 
the HSBC Group) other than where:

-As set out in the terms below.

Crime Prevention and Debt Recovery

e To prevent crime, verify your identity, recover debt
The terms and conditions allowed HSBC to transfer Mrs Hs data in the way it did. And as 
Ive said, debt collection by a third party by a debt collector is a regulated activity. That would 
always require a borrowers personal data to be passed to a third party. It follows that 
passing data in such a way would be consistent with the FCAs rules.
Consent is only one of the lawful ways in which data can be processed (including handing it 
over to third parties such as a debt collection agency). I think it is unlikely that HSBC would 
be relying on Mrs Hs consent since realistically many people would refuse to consent to 
their data being provided to a third party such as a debt collection agency. 
There is an exemption for processing personal data under GDPR where there is a legitimate 
interest. Bearing in mind that HSBC is undertaking a regulated activity and enforcing its 
rights under the contract I consider that asking a third party to recover the debt would be a 
legitimate interest, where passing Mrs Hs details to a third party is necessary. 
While the third party debt collector may have chosen to accept Mrs Hs request not to deal 
with her, it doesnt follow that HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably in appointing it in the first 
place.
Ive found it was reasonable for HSBC to appoint the third party. I cant see how I could 
reasonably find that any contact from the third party was harassment. And it was reasonable 
for HSBC to refuse to discuss the account with Mrs H  it had appointed the third party to 
deal with the debt on its behalf. 
complaint handling
A complaint is defined by the FCA as an expression of dissatisfaction about provision of a 
financial service. There is clearly an underlying financial service that Mrs H is complaining 
about  the appointment of a third party to recover the debt. So I consider that we can 
consider how HSBC dealt with the points that Mrs H made directly about the administration 
of her account. 
While Mrs H might not be happy with how HSBC dealt with the complaint, I dont consider it 
was unfair or unreasonable. I think its final response addressed the complaint  and it isnt 
required to correspond further after that.
signature
I agree with the investigator here. It was reasonable in the circumstances for HSBC to check 
that Mrs H wanted her husband to represent her. I dont consider HSBC was being 
obstructive.
subject access request
HSBC accepted the investigators proposal to pay Mrs H £150 for any distress and 
inconvenience the delay in dealing with the subject access request caused to her. I think this is fair. Nothing she or her representative has said would lead me to conclude this should be 
increased. 
Mrs H is being treated differently from her husband
HSBC isnt required to write off Mrs Hs debt just because it did that for her husband. Mrs H 
might view their circumstances and inseparable, but it was reasonable for HSBC to look at 
them individually. The account in question was in Mrs Hs sole name.
HSBC is obliged to treat Mrs H fairly. But it can only do so if both sides meaningfully engage 
with each other. It appears this matter has got in the way of that happening. As things stand, 
I dont consider it was unreasonable for HSBC not to write off Mrs Hs debt. 
Mrs H said that no collection activity has taken place since the debt collector passed the 
recovery of the debt back to HSBC. That might be because of this ongoing dispute. 
Mrs Hs husband, on her behalf, responded to make a number of points, including:
Mrs H made payments of £1 a month to HSBC and submitted financial information to it. 
No default notice was sent to her.
HSBC cant require Mrs H to engage with a third party debt collector. Mrs H has a right to 
object to the third party having her data. She has no contractual or statutory relationship 
with the third party. Mrs H exercised her rights, but HSBC stopped dealing with her.
Mrs H has no legal obligation to communicate with the third party. But she has no legal 
obligation to do so. Custom, practice, contracts or convenience cant override her 
statutory rights to object to any previous consent.
It was inappropriate for me to introduce a new contractual term that was not raised by 
HSBC. 
By refusing to deal with Mrs H, HSBC is trying to force her to engage with the debt 
collector. But the debt collector had withdrawn from acting as HSBCs agent. That is 
unreasonable conduct and victimisation because she complained. It was perverse, 
biased, unreasonable and flawed in law for me to say HSBC had a right to do that.
Mrs H did not ask me to comment on whether HSBC should write off her debt. That was 
matter for her and HSBC.
Legislation made by parliament takes precedence over secondary legislation, secondary 
legislation from parliament takes precedence over policies, codes or custom and 
practice.
Mrs H has statutory rights under the Data Protection Act 2018 (the Act) sections 93-100. 
She has the right to access data held by another, right to object to processing and to 
seek rectification. HSBC has not complied with several data subject access requests.
HSBC did not comply with section 99 of the Act. Mrs H exercised her right to tell the data 
processor not to contact her again. Yet, the data controller told the processor to contact 
her again, knowing she had objected. That is harassment under the Harassment Act. 
The law is clear that if HSBC had not complied with the law within 21 days then it cant 
rely on any exemption.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
default
HSBC said the account defaulted in 2014. Due to the length of time since the default it 
wouldnt be unusual for it not to be able to produce a default notice. 
I dont think the points Mrs H makes help her case. It would be very unusual for a lender to 
accept token payments of £1 a month for such a long period of time without the account 
technically being in default. If the account was operating normally she would need to make 
higher payments each month and there would be no need for her to submit financial 
information to HSBC.
Im satisfied that the account meets The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) definition 
of a default for the reasons set out above.
transfer to debt collector
As Ive explained to Mrs Hs husband, we arent a court. We are an informal dispute 
resolution service. I must take into account all of the evidence to decide what I consider is 
fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of a complaint. Just because one side 
has not mentioned a piece of evidence that has been provided, does not mean that I cant 
take that evidence into account. 
The terms and conditions allowed HSBC to transfer Mrs Hs data in the way it did. And as 
Ive said, debt collection by a third party by a debt collector is a regulated activity. That would 
always require a borrowers personal data to be passed to a third party. It follows that 
passing data in such a way would be consistent with the FCAs rules. 
I am not saying that the FCAs rules supersede the law. Rather it was to highlight that Mrs H 
was wrong to say that the debt had been partially assigned to the debt collector against the 
law, when in fact the debt collector was merely collecting the debt on behalf of HSBC and 
that was a legitimate thing for HSBC to do. In any case, I dont consider the FCAs rules are 
inconsistent with the relevant law. 
Consent is only one of the lawful ways in which data can be processed (including handing it 
over to third parties such as a debt collection agency). I think it is unlikely that HSBC would 
be relying on Mrs Hs consent since realistically many people would refuse to consent to 
their data being provided to a third party such as a debt collection agency. 
There is an exemption for processing personal data under GDPR where there is a legitimate 
interest. Bearing in mind that HSBC is undertaking a regulated activity and enforcing its 
rights under the contract I consider that asking a third party to recover the debt would be a 
legitimate interest, where passing Mrs Hs details to a third party is necessary. 
While the third party debt collector may have chosen to accept Mrs Hs request not to deal 
with her, it doesnt follow that HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably in appointing it in the first 
place. I consider it was reasonable for it to do so bearing in mind it likely had a legitimate 
interest in doing so  even if Mrs H did not consent to that.
Mrs H said that HSBC failed to deal with her data subject access request where she 
withdrew her consent to deal with the third party debt collector within the required timescale. As a result HSBC should not have continued to instruct the debt collector to act on its behalf 
and contact Mrs H after that point.
I understand Mrs H made two subject access requests to HSBC on 8 August 2021 and 25 
February 2022. I cant deal with any complaint arising out the 2022 request as that is an 
event that happened after this complaint was referred to us.
HSBC did not deal with the 2021 subject access request within the 21 days it had. But 
the Act says that if the data controller (HSBC) does not comply with that then then the data 
subject (Mrs H) may apply to court for an order for the controller to comply with the notice. 
As far as I can see only a court can make that decision  and it is for it to decide whether 
HSBC should comply with the notice or not. 
My own view is that HSBC did (for the reasons Ive explained) have a legitimate interest in 
passing Mrs Hs details to a third party debt collector. It clearly did not deal with the request 
from Mrs H properly. But it had grounds not to comply with Mrs Hs objection  and just 
because Mrs H made an objection does not mean HSBC had to comply with it.
In view of that, and in the absence of any court order, I dont consider it was unfair for HSBC 
to continue to instruct the third party in those circumstances. If Mrs H thought that HSBC 
should comply with her objection for technical reasons under the Act then that is something 
she would need to raise in court or through the ICOs complaint process.
It follows  in the absence of any court order or ruling from the ICO  that any attempt by the 
debt collector to contact Mrs H on behalf of HSBC was not unreasonable. And in any case, 
the debt collector has now complied with Mrs Hs request.
The debt collector was required under the relevant rules to treat Mrs H as HSBC would. I 
cant see there was any real disadvantage to Mrs H in dealing with the debt collector rather 
than HSBC directly. 
I dont consider it was unreasonable for HSBC not to enter into further communication with 
Mrs H while this matter was ongoing. I cant see that has caused Mrs H any real detriment. 
There is nothing to prevent HSBC engaging with Mrs H once my decision has been issued if 
there is no formal arrangement in place or if Mrs H wishes to discuss her circumstances. 
complaint handling
A complaint is defined by the FCA as an expression of dissatisfaction about provision of a 
financial service. There is clearly an underlying financial service that Mrs H is complaining 
about  the appointment of a third party to recover the debt. So I consider that we can look 
at how HSBC dealt with the points that Mrs H made directly about the administration of her 
account. 
While Mrs H might not be happy with how HSBC dealt with the complaint, I dont consider it 
was unfair or unreasonable. I think its final response addressed the complaint  and it isnt 
required to correspond further after that.
signature
I agree with the investigator here. It was reasonable in the circumstances for HSBC to check 
that Mrs H wanted her husband to represent her. I dont consider HSBC was being 
obstructive.
subject access requestHSBC accepted the investigators proposal to pay Mrs H £150 for any distress and 
inconvenience the delay in dealing with the subject access request caused to her. I think this 
is a fair amount to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs H by HSBCs failure 
to deal with the subject access request properly.
Mrs H is being treated differently from her husband
I cant agree that this did not form part of Mrs Hs complaint. On 12 November 2021, Mrs H 
and her husband signed a complaint form, which stated:
I consider I have been treated differently to my husband as a household all our income is 
pooled and I am in exactly the same position as my husband the debt should be written off.
This matter was dealt with in the investigators opinion  and I cant see that Mrs H or her 
representative objected to that.
It was correct for me to address that complaint in my provisional decision. But as Mrs H has 
effectively withdrawn that complaint, I will not deal with it further.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC Bank UK Plc should pay Mrs H £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman