DRN-3615196
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) withdrew travel 
insurance from the Flex account. Mrs B says that she has paid twice to upgrade the travel 
cover and both times was unable to travel due to Covid restrictions.
Mrs B also says that when she was made aware that Nationwide was removing the travel 
insurance cover from the Flex account, she says Nationwide told her that if she paid to 
extend upgrade her cover before the end of December 2021, she could retain the travel 
insurance cover until the following year. Mrs B says that when she spoke to the travel insurer 
about doing this, she was told that wasnt possible as the upgrade shed purchased expired 
in February 2022  by which point the travel cover would no longer be in force.
Mrs B has asked for the upgrade premiums she paid to be refunded to her.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think that Nationwide had 
done anything wrong or had acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, and so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And as the Flex Account in question is similar in nature to a packaged account, I have 
considered our approach to such complaints to help me decide this complaint. And having 
considered everything, I dont uphold this complaint.
I think it may help to explain that as the travel insurance was provided with the Flex Account, 
it was essentially an annual multi-trip policy  but provided on a rolling basis, with no fixed 
start or end date. But if any upgrades were purchased, they would operate for a period of 12 
months from when they are purchased, and then need renewing (if needed) every year. 
This means that the travel insurance remained in place up until either the accountholder 
changed or closed their account, or until Nationwide chose to withdraw it as a benefit of the 
account  which it did at the end of 2021. I understand that Nationwide had an agreement in 
place with the travel insurer that meant if anyone still had an active upgrade when the travel 
cover was removed from the Flex Account, the accountholder would continue to receive 
cover up until the upgrade expired.
In this case, Mrs B was only unable to travel as her trip was unfortunately postponed twice 
due to the impacts of the pandemic. Therefore, when Mrs B paid for the upgrade, she did so 
in the knowledge that shed only be covered for any trip within the 12-month period. 
Therefore, although her trip was unfortunately postponed the first time, Mrs B still received 
what shed paid for  upgraded travel insurance that covered her for a period of 12 months. 
Furthermore, when Mrs B paid to upgrade the cover again, she did so in the knowledge that 
if her trip was postponed yet again due to Covid, there was a risk that was paying (again) for 
a further 12-month upgrade unnecessarily. But in either event, I cant see how Nationwide 
should be held responsible because Mrs B paid to upgrade her travel cover but was 
unfortunately unable to travel in each upgrade period. 
Furthermore, and more importantly, Mrs B paid the travel insurer  not Nationwide - to 
upgrade the level of cover provided by the Flex Account travel insurance. And this complaint 
is against Nationwide. Therefore, as Mrs B paid these amounts to a third party, I cant 
reasonably ask Nationwide to refund money that she paid to another company  and thats 
the case even if I thought the premiums should be refunded to her. 
Finally, I note that the timing of the withdrawal of the Flex Account travel insurance was 
unfortunate for Mrs B. And Mrs B says that she cannot see how an insurer could say they 
were no longer providing cover and leave customers that had already pre-paid for a policy in 
the lurch. However, Nationwide didnt do this. Nationwide agreed that Mrs B could retain the 
travel insurance up until the upgrade shed paid for was due to expire. So Mrs B did receive 
what shed paid for. It was then up to Mrs B to arrange alternative cover once the Flex 
Account travel cover came to an end for her.
Finally, I understand that Nationwide mayve got Mrs Bs hopes up, as she says she was told 
that if she paid to upgrade the travel policy before it was due to be withdrawn at the end of 
2021, she may be able to get cover until the end of 2022. But I understand this was not 
possible because shed already got an upgrade in place that was due to expire in February 
2022  and this couldnt be extended by that point, as the travel policy was already being 
withdrawn. Whilst it is unfortunate if Mrs B was given this information by Nationwide, 
ultimately, I can see Mrs B was given the correct information by the travel insurer. And I cant 
see that Mrs B was prejudiced by any incorrect information she mayve been given by 
Nationwide. 
As such, based on everything I have seen, Ive seen no reason why Nationwide should 
refund the upgrade premiums Mrs B paid to the travel insurer on the Flex Account travel 
insurance.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman