DRN-2732500
The complaint
Mr G says The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op Bank) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2000. The policy was added to 
Mr Gs credit card account when he applied for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint because:
I think Co-op Bank made Mr G aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it  although I can understand why he can no longer remember this.
Co-op Bank didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. 
Its possible the information Co-op Bank gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr G chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. He was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely 
Mr G would have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On 
balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Gs comments, including what hes said about not being 
employed for enough hours each week to be eligible for the policy. And I accept hes sent us 
a copy of a statement showing how much National Insurance he paid that year. I dont know 
why Mr G didnt seem to pay any National Insurance contributions in 2000 (although he 
seems to have received some credits). So Ive also looked at the credit card application form 
Mr G completed, which hed have done in his own time as he was applying for the card by 
post. This is, I think, the best reflection of his circumstances when he applied for the card. 
On that he said he earned £1,250 a month and was self-employed with a named company. 
That suggests he was likely working at least 16 hours a week, and so eligible for the PPI. So 
Mr Gs points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman