DRN-2879638
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about how U K Insurance Limited dealt with their claim against their  
travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs J have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank 
account. They booked a family trip with intended departure and return dates of               
6 April 2020 and 19 April 2020 respectively. 
On 16 March 2020, the government of the USA imposed a travel ban and on                 
17 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad. 
The airline cancelled Mr and Mrs Js flights and initially offered free re-booking of the 
flights or a credit voucher for future travel. Both offers were limited to flights up to the end 
of 2020. The offers werent acceptable to Mr and Mrs J. 
On 18 March 2020, Mr J spoke with UKI about making a claim under the policy. Ill refer 
to that conversation in more detail below. Following Mr Js phone call with UKI, he 
instructed his travel agent to cancel the flights, decline the offers from the airline and 
obtain a cancellation invoice. Mr and Mrs J pursued their claim against the policy. UKI 
declined the claim. It said that the policy didnt cover expenses that can be recovered 
from elsewhere and that the airline had offered an alternative.       
Mr J says that UKI gave him misleading information in the telephone call on                  
18 March 2020, which led to loss. He says that he acted on UKIs advice and forfeited 
the offer of rebooking or a credit voucher from the airline.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Subject to the policy terms and conditions, Mr and Mrs Js policy provides cover for 
certain expenses if they need to cancel their trip following the FCO advice against all, 
or all but essential, travel to their intended destination. One of the conditions of cover 
is that Mr and Mrs J must provide a cancellation invoice, unused tickets and any 
other supporting documents UKI reasonably requires. The policy excludes any 
expenses Mr and Mrs J can recover from elsewhere. 
Mr J says that he was misled by UKI during a phone call on 18 March 2020. Ive 
listened to the recording of that call. I dont think that UKI misled Mr J such that it 
caused him loss. Ill explain why. 
In the phone call, UKI didnt tell Mr J to cancel the flights. But I dont think it would 
have altered the outcome if it did. Thats because, according to Mr Js travel agent, 
the airline cancelled the flights. And the insured event under the policy is the 
cancellation of the trip following advice against all but essential travel by the FCO, 
not the cancellation of the flights. 
 
I dont think that UKI told Mr J to refuse the offers the airline had made at that point. 
Mr J had already said that the airlines offers werent acceptable to him. UKI was 
giving Mr J information about how he could obtain a cancellation invoice. I dont think 
what it said was misleading or caused Mr and Mrs J loss.
I can understand why Mr J was encouraged by what UKI said in the phone call on    
18 March 2020. But I dont agree that UKI told Mr J that it would settle his claim. It 
said that it would consider the claim and told Mr J what information and evidence 
hed need to provide. UKI said that provided Mr J gave it all the relevant 
documentation it had asked for, cancellation of a trip following advice from the FCO  
was something thats covered under the policy. I dont think that amounts to saying 
that it will settle his claim. UKI would need to consider the information and evidence 
Mr J provided before deciding whether to decline or settle the claim. 
Events have moved on since Mr and Mrs J complained to UKI. The airline has now  
changed its position and offered refunds. So, even if I reached a different conclusion 
about the information UKI gave to Mr J in the phone call of 18 March 2020, theres no 
loss in relation to flights. 
There was delay in dealing with Mr and Mrs Js claim. UKI have paid compensation 
of £200 in relation to that. I think thats fair and reasonable, given the nature and 
extent of the delay, so I dont require it to pay any more. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman