DRN-4398579
The complaint
Ms M, who is represented by a third party, complains that Everyday Lending Limited 
(Everyday Lending), irresponsibly approved her for a  loan she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2018 Ms M entered into a loan agreement by way of a guarantor loan with 
Everyday Lending. The loan was for £2,700, repayable over 42 months. 
Ms M says that Everyday Lending didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it 
agreed the lending. She says she was already struggling financially at the time.
Everyday Lending made an offer to settle the complaint. The offer is to refund anything Ms M 
had paid over £2,700 and to require her to pay back the balance of the loan that is still  
outstanding. I understand that payments made by Ms Ms guarantor under the terms of the 
agreement have already been refunded. 
As Ms M is unhappy with the offer, the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Everyday Lending will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Everyday Lending has offered to refund all interest and charges from the opening of the loan 
account. This has the effect of reducing the current outstanding balance. It will also remove 
any negative data relating to the account from Ms Ms credit file once the loan has been 
repaid. 
I have considered the terms of the offer. I can see that its in line with the redress we ask 
businesses like Everyday Lending to pay and reflects the particular circumstances of the 
loan, given that there is still money owing. 
Generally speaking, this service does not ask lenders to write off remaining balances on loan 
accounts where money is still owed by the borrower. When upholding a complaint, the aim is 
to ensure that a consumer will only have to repay the principal sum they borrowed. Ms M 
borrowed £2,700. I understand the guarantor paid £1,442 towards the loan and that has 
been refunded. Given that a total of £1,994.44 has been paid, Ms M must repay the balance 
of the sum she has had the benefit of using  being £705.56. 
Everyday lending must not increase the balance repayable by Ms M as a result of any 
refunds made to the guarantor. I say this given that it would be unfair to Ms M to be required 
to pay anything more as a result of having made a complaint to this service. There also 
appears to be no reason why Everyday Lending should not now enter into a reasonable and 
appropriate repayment arrangement with Ms M, if it has not done so already. 
It follows that I consider Everyday Lendings offer to be fair and reasonable given the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right  what Everyday Lending needs to do
Having thought about everything, Everyday Lending should do the following, if it has not 
done so already:
Refund any payments Ms M has made in excess of £2,700. 
Add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of any overpayments to the date of 
settlement.
Once the loan has been repaid, remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ms 
credit file regarding the loan agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending must give Ms M certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited to put things right in the 
way Ive set out above, if it has not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman