DRN-4097143
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGICE) 
declined her pet insurance claim. My references to CGICE include its agents.
Mrs H is represented in her complaint by her husband but for simplicity Ill just refer to Mrs H.
What happened
Mrs Hs pet insurance policy for her dog started on 1 September 2018 and renewed 
annually. She had an Essential policy and the policy limit for vet fees for the policy starting 
in September 2021 was £1,000 per condition for up to 12 months from the date the symptom 
was noticed or the treatment started, whichever happened first.
In January 2022 Mrs H claimed for her dogs treatment for right hind leg cruciate instability.
CGICE declined the claim. The policy said that any treatment for bilateral conditions was 
considered to be treatment for one condition and the policy didnt cover pre-existing 
conditions. CGICE said that in 2014 Mrs Hs dogs saw the vet for left hind leg lameness 
relating to her cruciate ligament, so the 2022 claim was for a pre-existing condition which 
wasnt covered under the policy terms.
CGICE also said that when Mrs H bought the policy she didnt disclose her dog had a pre-
existing condition of cruciate disease, which she first discussed with her vet in 2014. If she 
had disclosed the condition CGICE would have applied the following endorsements to the 
policy from the start and also used the endorsements to decline the claim:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to Both Stifles with effect from 1 September 
2018
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to Cruciate Ligament and any Associated 
Conditions with effect from 1 September 2018.
Mrs H complained to us. In summary she said in 2022 her dog had an accidental injury to 
her right hind leg when jumping onto the sofa at home. Her dog had lameness in her left leg 
before the policy was taken out but that was a different situation and she had no previous 
problem with her right hind leg. Mrs H wants CGICE to pay the vet costs shed paid which 
she said was about £2,000.
Our investigator said CGICE had unfairly applied the pre-existing condition exclusion to 
decline the claim. She recommended CGICE pay the vet costs subject to the policy limit, 
plus interest if Mrs H had already paid the vet costs.
CGICE disagreed and wanted an ombudmans decision. It said as Mrs Hs dog had pre-
existing cruciate insufficiency in her left hind leg neither cruciate ligament was covered by 
the policy terms.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to uphold the complaint as 
I thought CGICE unreasonably declined the claim. I said:
The policy excludes:
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition 
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that showed Clinical Signs or Symptoms 
before Your Policy Start Date.
The policy says defines pre-existing conditions as:
Any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before 
the Policy Start Date....
The policy defines bilateral conditions as:
Any medical Condition that can affect body parts of which Your pet has two, on 
either side of its body, such as  cruciate ligaments...and which can occur at 
different times. When applying the Benefit Limit and the terms of this Policy, any 
Treatment for Bilateral Conditions will be considered as one Condition, regardless of 
when the Treatment occurred.
Mrs Hs dogs vet notes are clear that she had lameness in her left hind leg since 2014 and 
the problem was ultimately diagnosed in 2015 as cruciate insufficiency, which was before 
the policy started.
Ive seen no evidence that Mrs Hs dog had any lameness on her right hind leg before the 
policy started. The first evidence of a problem in the right hind leg is the vet record in 
January 2022, well after the policy started, which says Examination - Lame RIGHT hind for 
about a week. on exam susp CCL rupture.
But, as the policy says cruciate ligaments are a bilateral condition, under a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms CGICE correctly declined the claim as a pre-existing 
condition.
However, I also need to consider whether it was fair and reasonable for CGICE to decline 
the claim. We generally say, unless theres evidence that the claimed for condition is 
causally linked to the pre-existing condition, its not reasonable for an insurer to decline the 
claim on the basis of the claimed for condition being pre-existing because its a bilateral 
condition.
Mrs Hs dogs right hind leg cruciate ligament problem happened seven years after her left 
hind cruciate ligament problem was diagnosed. As Ive said, Ive seen no evidence in the vet 
notes to suggest there were any concerns about cruciate ligament problems in the dogs 
right hind leg before January 2022.The vet notes in January 2022 gives the diagnosis of right cruciate DZ/ instability, which is 
similar to the diagnosis for the left hind leg seven years earlier. But apart from the diagnosis 
being the same theres no evidence to suggest the 2014/15 cruciate ligament condition and 
2022 cruciate ligament condition were causally linked, particularly given the long period of 
time between the two.
CGICE referred to the vet note entry in June 2015; NB diagnose cruciate insufficiency 
which CGICE said indicated the vet felt that this was a particularly important diagnosis to be 
aware of. Whether or not CGICEs interpretation of the note is correct, in 2014/15 the vet 
made no reference to a potential issue with the dogs right hind leg in the future. Mrs H said 
on the claim form that her dog jumped up on her sofa and cried so it appears that the 
problem with the right hind leg, which caused the claim, was triggered by an injury.
In all the circumstances I think theres insufficient evidence for CGICE to show the two 
conditions are causally linked in this dog. So Im satisfied that CGICE couldnt reasonably 
use the pre-existing condition exclusion to decline the claim.
CGICE also said that if when Mrs H bought the policy she had disclosed her dog had a 
cruciate problem it would have added the above endorsements from the start of the policy 
and used those to decline the claim. It said when taking out the policy Mrs H would have 
been taken through the options for selecting a policy type and asked:
Are You looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing condition?
And Mrs H would also have been taken through the Assumptions sections where it was 
stated that:
You accept that no cover will be provided for any illness or injury that is pre-existing 
or if it were to arise within the first 14 days from the policy start date.
But Ive seen no evidence that CGICE asked Mrs H any direct questions about her dogs 
medical history and vet treatment when she bought the policy. If it had, and Mrs H 
misrepresented the answers, it might be fair for CGICE to apply the above endorsements 
retrospectively  if thats what it would have done had it known the true position. The 
relevant law, the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), 
allows this in some circumstances where theres been a relevant misrepresentation. But as 
CGICE hasnt shown me it asked Mrs H those clear questions there isnt an issue of 
misrepresentation.
On the evidence I have I dont think CGICE could fairly add, backdate and apply the 
endorsements for exclusions on cover on all claims with respect to both stifles, and with 
respect to cruciate ligament and any associated conditions, with effect from 1 September 
2018.
So I think CGICE unreasonably declined the claim. But Im not intending to say in this 
decision that CGICE has to pay all the vet costs Mrs H wants it to pay.
The only claim Ive seen thats been submitted to and assessed by CGICE is for £533.05, 
which on the information Mrs H gave is for the first consultation, x-rays and medication.
In her complaint form to us Mrs H says she also wants CGICE to pay the surgery costs of 
£1,407.75. But I havent seen that shes made a claim to CGICE for those costs and shell 
need to, with the vet evidence and invoice to support that claim, so that CGICE can assess 
the claim.When CGICE receive the claim for the surgery costs it would be reasonable for it to assess 
that claim taking into account what Ive said above. If Mrs H and CGICE cant agree about 
the settlement of that claim Mrs H can ultimately make a complaint to us about that matter. 
Its fair for me to tell Mrs H now that given the policy limit of £1,000 per condition its unlikely 
CGICE will pay her all the surgery costs.
In this decision Im intending to say that CGICE must pay the claim for £533.05. Under the 
policy terms it can deduct the £90 excess and the 15% co-payment that applies due to 
Mrs Hs dogs age. If Mrs H has already paid the costs CGICE must add interest as detailed 
below.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs H and CGICE accepted my provisional decision. Mrs H said shed now submitted a 
claim for £1,407.75 for her dogs surgery. CGICE said although the claim was submitted 
outside the time limit stated in the policy terms on this occasion it would assess the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs H and CGICE have accepted my provisional decision Ive no reason to change my 
mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I think CGICE 
unreasonably declined Mrs Hs claim for £533.05 for the first consultation, x-rays and 
medication.
Mrs H has now submitted the claim for her dogs surgery and CGICE has reasonably said it 
will assess the claim even though the claim was submitted outside the time limit set out in 
the policy terms. As Ive said in my provisional decision, if Mrs H and CGICE cant agree 
about the settlement of that claim she can ultimately make a separate complaint to us about 
that matter.
Putting things right
CGICE must pay the claim for £533.05. Under the policy terms it can deduct the £90 excess 
and the 15% co-payment that applies due to Mrs Hs dogs age. If Mrs H has already paid 
the vet costs CGICE must add interest as detailed below. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to 
pay Mrs Hs claim for £533.05, less the £90 excess, less the 15% co-payment. If Mrs H has 
already paid the vet costs Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited must 
add interest* at 8% simple a year from the date she paid the costs to the date of its 
settlement to her.
*If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs H how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman