DRN-2699685
The complaint
Mrs O complained that she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) when she took 
out a personal loan. A company called AXA France IARD are now responsible for the 
complaint, so Ill refer mainly to AXA.
To be clear, this decision is about the loan she took out in April 1997. Mrs O said she didnt 
need PPI.
What happened
Mrs O applied for a loan of £5,000 and was sold a single premium PPI policy at the same 
time. This type of PPI policy meant that it had to be paid for up front in one single payment. 
It cost £1,116 and this amount was also lent to Mrs O by AXA. Both the loan and PPI part of 
the loan ran over a period of 48 months (4 years). 
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld, but Mrs O disagreed and 
the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold 
Mrs Os complaint.
Ive got no doubt Mrs O genuinely feels now that this policy was mis-sold to her. However, 
weve been sent the original documentation she signed and from what we know about these 
types of sale, I think its likely that there would have been a discussion between the parties 
about the loan and whether Mrs O wanted to have PPI with it. Based on that discussion, I 
think Mrs O would have then been sent or given a loan agreement, to check and sign, which 
included some figures about all the costs. 
AXA sent me Mrs Os agreement. It reflects what Ive described above, and there were two 
choices about what was called Optional Payment Protection Insurance. The agreement 
asked if PPI was required  or not required. And on her form, the first of these was selected.
So, I think this strongly demonstrates that she gave her consent to buying the PPI policy, 
although I accept she may have since forgotten about this.
AXA says this wasnt an advised sale, so its responsibility was limited to providing enough 
information to enable Mrs O to make her own decision about what she wanted to do. 
I obviously cant say that Mrs O was told everything she should have been. However, the 
cost of the PPI was set out on the form. It included the actual PPI cost and the Optional 
Payment Protection Loan cost. It showed all the interest added that would be applied and 
the sum of these two amounts. There was also a brief description of what the PPI covered 
her for. I therefore think she probably had enough information on which to make an informed 
decision.
Its obviously possible that AXA could have done things differently or provided more 
information. But I dont think this would have changed what happened. 
This is because I think Mrs O was eligible for the cover and I dont think shed have been 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policies. She told us 
she didnt have any sickness protection through her job, so I think the protection from the 
PPI could have been of use. It could have paid out a monthly benefit in the event of her 
being unable to work through illness or losing her job completely.
The loan and the PPI policy part of the loan both ran for the same term lengths and there 
seems no indication at the time of her intending to pay off the loan before the 48-month term.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs O, but I think its more likely she had enough information to 
see and understand that she had agreed to the PPI. I dont therefore think it was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint. And I dont direct AXA 
France IARD to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman