DRN-4074557
The complaint
Ms L complained because HSBC UK Bank plc refused to refund her for an international 
payment she made as a result of a scam.
What happened
On 13 May 2022, Ms L was phoned by scammers. They told her they were police officers 
and prosecutors calling from an Import and Export Inspections and Quarantine Bureau 
abroad. The country was one where Ms L speaks the language. They told her theyd 
received imported goods which included illegal Covid-related medicine, and shed been 
identified as the sender. 
Ms L told the scammers she hadnt posted any illegal goods and was innocent. The 
scammers said shed need to speak to the police station abroad, and transferred her call to 
another person. Ms L was told shed been found to be involved in a financial fraud in that 
country, and was shown an arrest warrant in her name on an app. The scammer warned her 
that shed be forced to return back to that country to help the investigation. 
The scammers contacted her again on 15 May, saying that the investigation could be carried 
out in the UK, if she transferred her personal savings and other money to an account 
belonging to the Investigations Office abroad, where it would be frozen while the 
investigation went on. They told her that the money would be returned if and when she was 
proved innocent.
Ms L transferred £5,000 from an external ISA savings account into her HSBC account, and 
£20,000 from her HSBC savings account into her HSBC current account. On 16 May, the 
scammers rang again and talked her through making a payment. At 8.25am she authorised 
an international payment of £34,000 to the account the scammers had given her. The 
scammers then told her said she had to sign a non-disclosure agreement, and told that there 
would be legal consequences if she broke that agreement. 
Ms Ls husband noticed the payment that evening and they discussed it. He realised shed 
been scammed. She rang HSBC straightaway to report this and try to get the payment 
blocked. HSBC took the details and said it would contact the recipient bank. Ms L was 
worried and rang again the next day, 17 May. The adviser told her that the payment had 
debited the account, but she could see that the fraud team had asked for the payment to be 
stopped, and said she should speak to the fraud team direct. The fraud team adviser said he 
couldnt see any action by the international team or electronic payment team about a 
cancellation, and as theyd already closed for the day, Ms L would need to ring the next day.
The same day, HSBC wrote to Ms L, saying that it appeared shed been a victim of an 
authorised push payment scam. It said it couldnt refund her because shed authorised the 
payment and it had processed the payment in line with her instructions.
Ms L rang again the next day, 18 May, as shed been told to by the adviser. HSBC agree 
that Ms L rang, but say they dont have a call recording. Ms L says the electronic payment 
team charged her £16.80 for a cancellation request, and told her that it had stopped the 
transaction, and that shed receive the money back within two or three weeks.
Ms L didnt receive a refund within three weeks, and contacted HSBC again. She was told 
the recipient bank hadnt replied. She continued to ring HSBC regularly, but had the same 
answer. On 15 July, Ms L complained. She continued to chase, including on 29 July and 5 
August.
On 10 August, HSBC sent its final response to Ms Ls complaint. It said it had notified the 
receiving bank, and it would expect that bank to have taken action against its customer. It 
said it had sent several chasers, but hadnt received a reply. It said it had written to Ms L on 
17 May to say that it had processed the payment in line with her instructions so wouldnt 
refund her. HSBC apologised for having wrongly told Ms L on 18 May that the payment had 
been stopped and shed get a refund. It said that wasnt possible because the payment had 
been debited on 16 May.
Ms L wasnt satisfied with HSBCs reply and contacted this service. She said that the final 
response was disappointing and confusing, and broke the banks commitment to its 
customer. She said that on 18 May, HSBC had told her that its electronic payments team 
had the ability to stop the transaction, and no-one had told her otherwise until HSBCs final 
response letter on 10 August.
Our investigator upheld Ms Ls complaint. She said that HSBC should fairly and reasonably 
have had systems in place to look out for out-of-character or unusual transactions. She 
believed HSBC should have been concerned about the payment, because it was higher than 
previous payments, to a new payee, and sent internationally. It also left a small balance in 
her account, and had been funded by money from Ms Ls savings accounts. She thought 
HSBC should have made further enquiries with Ms L about the purpose of the payment 
before letting it be made  and that if it had done, Ms L would have told HSBC what had 
happened and the payment would have been prevented. 
The investigator also considered whether or not Ms L acted reasonably in the 
circumstances, and believed she had done. So the investigator said that HSBC should 
refund Ms L with the £34,000 disputed transaction. She also said that interest should be 
applied from the date the payment should have been stopped, at:
- 0.1% on the £20,000 which had come from her HSBC savings account;
- 0.2% on the £5,000 which had come from her external ISA savings account;
- 8% on the remaining £9,000.
HSBC didnt accept this. It said that Ms Ls own conduct was an important consideration, 
and consumers must take responsibility for their decisions. It said that the scam was 
inherently implausible, because:
- There was no explanation about why Ms L had been required to pay £34,000 
suddenly, as a result of a cold call, so a reasonable person would have ignored the 
call;
- The non-disclosure agreement might have meant HSBC couldnt have stopped the 
payment even if HSBC had contacted Ms L before allowing the payment to go 
through. HSBC also said it wasnt plausible that a public organisation would have 
asked an individual to pay a bribe. Also a public organisation wouldnt have used an 
app for the discussions;
- The payment went to an individual, and if it had really been to an Import and Export 
Inspections and Quarantine Bureau, it would have been to an account in that name. 
HSBC also said it would have expected the payment to go to a different part of the 
country abroad;- Ms L had had 3 days to do basic checks and consult a family member, and it would 
have been clear that Ms L wasnt genuinely at risk of being arrested and extradited to 
the country abroad. So she had no basis to believe this was genuine;
- Ms Ls husband had quickly realised that this was a scam, because of the red flags 
which should have alerted Ms L too.
The investigator replied to HSBC that this type of scam is based on causing fear and making 
an individual feel there is a danger of legal action. The non-disclosure agreement was done 
after the payment, so wouldnt have affected any discussion between HSBC and Ms L 
before the payment went through. Also, the time between first contact on 13 May, and the 
payment being made on 16 May, had been used by the scammers for social engineering 
and manipulating Ms L into making the payment. The investigator told HSBC that she 
thought Ms L would have told HSBC the circumstances if HSBC had contacted her before 
allowing the payment to go through. She didnt think it was reasonable to hold Ms L 50% 
responsible as HSBC said.
HSBC replied that even if it were found that it had missed an opportunity to warn Ms L, that 
didnt mean she wasnt responsible. It quoted legislation which says that consumers must 
take responsibility for their actions, and those who use services provided by payment 
systems should take responsibility for their decisions. HSBC asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. This was because Id come to a different 
conclusion to the investigator. Issuing a provisional decision gave both sides the opportunity 
to comment on it, by the date set, before I issued a final decision  
Before issuing the provisional decision, I considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said I was sorry to hear that Ms L had been a victim of crime. I 
could understand it must have been a shocking and worrying experience for her.
Definitions and regulations
A scam is where a customer was deceived into making a payment to another person for 
what they thought were legitimate purposes, but turned out to be fraudulent. The scam which 
Ms L suffered is called an Authorised Push Payment (APP), which is where the customer 
makes a payment themselves because they were tricked into doing so by a scammer.
There are regulations governing disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. There 
are two stages when considering disputed transactions. Authentication is the technical 
process, and authorisation is about whether the customer consented to the payment. The 
customer doesnt have to be fully aware of all the details for the payment at the time, such as 
where its really going. So it still counts as authorised if a customer has been tricked into 
making the payment.
Here, its not disputed that the payment was technically authenticated, and that Ms L 
authorised the payment as a result of the scammers. So the starting point is that HSBC 
wouldnt be liable as Ms L authorised the payment  but there are other factors which banks 
have to take into consideration.Should HSBC have checked with Ms L before allowing the payment to go through? 
Banks are expected to have systems in place to look out for out-of-character or unusual 
transactions, or other signs that might indicate that its customer is at risk of fraud. They 
should step in in these circumstances  thats known as a trigger.
HSBC didnt contact Ms L with any concerns before allowing the payment to go through. I 
considered whether it should have done. Some of the potential warning signs here were:
- The £34,000 payment was for a very large amount;
- It was much higher than any other payments from Ms Ls account.  I looked at her 
bank statements going back to June 2021, and the largest payment was for 
£4,265.01 on 29 November 2021. So this payment was out of character for Ms Ls 
normal debits;
- It was made to a new payee. Ms L had occasionally made payments to the country 
where the payment went, but for much smaller amounts and not to this payee;
- Ms L had made two transfers into the account from savings accounts, to fund the 
scam payment. I appreciate that HSBC might not have known that the one from an 
external bank was a savings account, but the other one was from Ms Ls HSBC 
savings accounts. If savings accounts are being used to fund a payment, it may be 
an indication of a scammer getting someone to transfer money in an APP scam;
- The balance left in Ms Ls account was unusually low at £156.37.
So I considered HSBC should have been alerted to the fact that this was a suspicious 
transaction. When this happens, wed expect the bank to try to contact the customer direct, 
either by phone or by asking them to go to a branch in person  and to block the transaction 
in the meantime. HSBC didnt do that.
I went on to consider whether it would have made any difference if HSBC had contacted Ms 
L before releasing the payment. HSBC had argued that it wouldnt have made any 
difference, because Ms L had signed the scammers non-disclosure agreement, saying she 
wouldnt disclose details and that if she did, shed be liable for legal action. Im not 
persuaded by HSBCs argument here. First, Ms L was only told she had to sign the non-
disclosure agreement after the payment was completed. So if HSBC had checked with Ms L 
before the payment had gone through, Ms L wouldnt have felt compelled to keep quiet 
about the full details because of fear of the consequences if she disobeyed the non-
disclosure agreement. Also, Ms L did contact HSBC as soon as she realised, after 
discussion with her husband on the evening of 16 May, that shed been scammed. So I think 
its highly likely that if HSBC had contacted her and discussed scams, Ms L would have 
been open to providing full details  and the payment could have been blocked.
Was it reasonable that Ms L didnt realise she was being scammed?
HSBC has argued that Ms L should have realised it was a scam, and she was therefore 
responsible for her own actions. I didnt agree with that in all the circumstances of this case. 
The scam included a threat of arrest, including an arrest warrant made out in her name, and 
the threat of extradition. Ms L was employed in what, from her salary credits, appears to 
have been a responsible scientific research role in the UK. So I understood that she would 
have been apprehensive about the threat of legal action and being extradited, and the 
possibility of losing her current situation. Ms L knew that she hadnt posted any illegal 
medicines abroad, but I didnt think it was unreasonable that, faced with ongoing pressure 
over several days, shed have been frightened into thinking that there was a real threat 
despite the fact that she was innocent of what had been alleged by the scammers. So I didnt agree with HSBC that Ms L should reasonably have realised it was a scam. It 
follows that I didnt consider any deduction should be made from the compensation for 
contributory negligence.
Did HSBC do enough to try to recover the money from the recipient?
Ms L reported the scam at 20.27 on 16 May. I looked at the records of when HSBC 
contacted the receiving bank. It sent the request on 18 May, not immediately. The receiving 
bank replied the next day, saying there was insufficient information in HSBCs request. 
HSBC didnt reply with more complete information, until 27 May. It did chase the receiving 
bank subsequently, but by 27 May it would almost certainly have been too late to retrieve 
funds from a 16 May scam.  Thats because fraudsters typically empty receiving bank 
accounts very quickly. When our investigator asked HSBC about its delay, HSBC said it 
couldnt provide a reason for this, but as the receiving bank didnt reply, it didnt make any 
difference. 
I wasnt persuaded by this, and said it was possible there could have been a different 
outcome if HSBC had pursued this as soon as Ms L reported the fraud on the evening of 16 
May. 
But where this doesnt make a difference is about whether Ms L, or HSBC, is liable for the 
payment. In HSBCs final response, it said that it hadnt had a reply from the beneficiary, and 
as Ms L had authorised the payment, it wouldnt refund her. Here, I found that HSBC should 
have acted on the triggers that this might be a scam payment, and failed to do so. In those 
circumstances, it doesnt make any difference whether or not the money was retrieved from 
the receiving bank.
HSBC has a duty to exercise reasonable skill and care, pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and follow good industry practice to keep customers accounts safe. I considered 
it didnt do so here.
Compensation
When we consider compensation, we do so in two parts: financial loss and compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
The main financial loss here was the £34,000 disputed transaction. As set out above, I 
consider that although Ms L authorised the disputed transaction, she did so as a result of an 
APP scam. Having carefully considered, I found that HSBC should have realised that this 
was a suspect transaction and should have stopped it until it could contact Ms L to discuss 
the transaction. HSBC also didnt act quickly enough to try to retrieve the funds from the 
receiving bank. I didnt find that Ms L had any contributory negligence. So I found that HSBC 
should refund the whole £34,000 to Ms L, plus interest.
HSBC had also agreed, in its email after the investigators view, to refund the £16.80 it 
charged for the disputed transaction. 
I could see, however, that there was also a further £5 charge which HSBC debited from Ms 
Ls account on the same day as the £34,000 payment. This was HSBCs fee for making an 
outbound transaction outside the European Economic Area. So I considered this too should 
be refunded.
So my provisional decision was that HSBC should pay Ms L a total of £34,021.80 for her 
financial loss.Interest is payable on this sum. This is calculated on the basis of the interest rate on 
accounts from which Ms L took the money. That rate should reflect changes in the rate that 
was applied over time, and during the period since the transaction, interest rates have 
generally risen. So I said that HSBC should calculate the interest which Ms Ls money would 
have earned if it had stayed where it was  and the rates are likely to have changed since 
May 2022.  This includes:
- £20,000 which had come from her HSBC savings account, reflecting the various 
rates, if changing over time, which had applied on that account from 16 May 2022;
- 5,000 which had come from her external ISA savings account, reflecting the various 
rates, if changing over time, which had applied on that account from 16 May 2022. 
ISA accounts are different for tax purposes, so I asked Ms L whether or not she pays 
interest on her savings. She told us that she doesnt. So the rates on which 
compensation should be calculated are her ISA savings rates without the need to 
take the tax-efficiency of ISAs into account in the calculation;
- The remaining £9,021.80 at the standard county court rate of 8%.
All are to be calculated from 16 May 2022 to the date of payment.
Turning to compensation for distress and inconvenience, in its email after the investigators 
view, HSBC offered Ms L £100 compensation for what it described as the incomplete / 
incorrect information on her 18 May call. HSBC hasnt provided us with the call recording, 
but in the absence of a call recording, I accepted what Ms L told us about what happened on 
that call. I considered that £100 was fair and reasonable compensation for that error on 18 
May and for the distress this caused to Ms L, who believed that HSBC was going to refund 
her. It appears to me from the documents that this has not been paid to Ms L, but if HSBC 
has paid it, it should confirm this in its response to this provisional decision by the date set 
for responses.
But I found that Ms L suffered more distress and inconvenience than that arising from the 
incomplete / incorrect information on the 18 May call. Clearly, most of the worry and upset 
arose from the actions of the fraudsters, and they cant be traced to rectify this. But I bore in 
mind that Ms L chased HSBC repeatedly from May onwards, and it wasnt until 10 August 
that HSBC eventually sent its final response. I also listened to the available call recordings, 
and I didnt think these were all handled sympathetically and in a constructive way. Finally, 
its also possible that if HSBC had contacted the receiving bank with the correct information 
promptly on 16 May, there would have been more chance of a quick recovery of funds, 
which would have resulted in less distress and inconvenience for Ms L.
Taking these factors into account, I considered that an additional £100 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. This makes a total of £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss L said that she was very happy with the provisional decision.
HSBC didnt reply by the date set for responses. It asked for extra time, which I agreed. But 
HSBC still didnt reply by the date to which it had asked us to extend the response time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having reconsidered the evidence, and in the light of Miss Ls response, and HSBC not 
having replied by the extended date it requested, I consider that my provisional decision was 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this case. I order HSBC UK Bank plc to pay Ms L:
1. £34,000 refund for the scammed payment on 16 May 2022; 
2. £21.80 for the charges for £16.80 and £5 which it debited from her account the same 
day in relation to this payment;
3. Interest:
- on the £20,000 which had come from Ms Ls HSBC savings account, reflecting the 
rates which had applied on that account from 16 May 2022;
- on the £5,000 which had come from Ms Ls external ISA savings account, reflecting 
the rates which had applied on that account from 16 May 2022;
- Interest at the standard county court rate of 8% on the remaining £9,021.80 financial 
loss. 
All the interest figures are to be calculated from 16 May 2022 to the date of payment.
4. £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience, which includes the £100 offered 
by HSBC for incomplete / inaccurate information on the 18 May 2022 phone call. In 
the provisional decision, I asked HSBC to confirm if it had already paid Ms L the £100 
it offered her. As it didnt respond, Ive assumed it hasnt already paid this to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman