DRN-3969374
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy about the premium Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd
said it would charge when offering renewal of her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S took out lifetime pet insurance; C&Gs records indicate that was in June 2019. She
made two claims on her policy in January and March 2021 which were paid up to the annual
policy limit. A complaint about that claim has been dealt with separately by our service.
In June 2021 C&G sent Mrs S renewal documentation which showed a significant increase
in her annual premium. As that wasnt affordable for Mrs S she didnt continue with the
policy.
Our investigator was satisfied C&G had calculated the renewal price of the policy in line with
its underwriting criteria. He thought Mrs S had been treated the same as other customers
with the same circumstances. But he didnt think C&G made clear to Mrs S when the policy
was sold that premiums could increase to this extent. He thought it should pay her £300 in
recognition of the distress and inconvenience she was caused when that did happen.
C&G didnt agree. It said the policy wording made clear premiums could increase at renewal
and it didnt accept there was more information it should have provided. It didnt agree to the
proposed compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any
medical conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out
or renewed. So recurring medical conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Mrs S took out, will continue to cover medical
conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year. These
are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. The yearly
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is
made. And there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
Insurers are entitled to decide how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide. Its
up to them how much they increase their premiums by and its common for the percentages
of increase to vary from year to year. I dont have the power to tell a business what its
insurance should cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should
operate  and thats not my role.
So I cant say the renewal cost of Mrs Ss policy was too high or that she should have been
charged less for it. And while I do appreciate that at renewal in June 2021 Mrs Ss premium
increased by a very significant amount, C&G has explained the reasons for that and whats
driven that change. Looking at the information C&G has provided Im satisfied its based its
decision on correct information (taking into accounts things like the pets breed, age, gender,
location and claims history). In particular I can see the fact Mrs Ss pet had reached the age
of eight and the recent claims history were both drivers of the premium increase. I havent
seen any evidence to show C&G treated her differently to how it would have treated any
other policyholder in the same position. So I cant tell it to charge a lower premium going
forward.
Turning to the issue that led our investigator to recommend compensation I agree the seller
of the policy should have provided information to Mrs S about what the long term cost
implications of taking out a policy like this could be. However, having reviewed the
documentation relating to the case I dont think thats something C&G are responsible for.
It only became the insurer of policies like Mrs Ss for renewals which took place from
January 2021. Prior to that C&G doesnt appear to have had any involvement with it; the
policy was underwritten by a different insurer and the sale appears to have been carried out
by a different business. So I cant say C&G has done anything wrong here because what
happened at the time of sale isnt something its responsible for. As a result I wont be
requiring it to take any action. If Mrs S does want to pursue a complaint about issues relating
to the sale she can contact our investigator who should be able to progress this against the
business responsible for that.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither C&G or Mrs S responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has responded to my provisional decision, I dont have any reason to alter 
the conclusions I set out in it. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman