DRN-1773215
The complaint 
Mrs O complains that Wesleyan Bank Limited (WBL) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to her alongside a loan in 2009. 
Background
Mrs O borrowed £15,000 from WBL and it was to be repaid over a period of six years. The 
total monthly payment was £322.22 with £57.18 of that payment being for the PPI policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt think PPI was mis-sold. She thought the offer WBL had made to Mrs O 
to refund some of the commission it received in respect of her PPI premiums was a fair way 
to settle this complaint. 
Mrs O didnt agree with that view. She said she didnt need a PPI policy because she had 
generous benefits from her employer. She also said she was not aware that the cover had 
been added. 
As the parties are not in agreement with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs O, but I agree with our adjudicator that PPI wasnt mis-sold. I 
further agree that the offer WBL made to refund some of the commission it received is a fair 
way to settle this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Mrs O told us that she couldnt remember how PPI had been sold to her. WBL told us that it 
was sold online at the same time as she applied for her loan. Looking at the paperwork, I 
think thats probably right. I havent been given any screenshots to show me the online 
application process. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at the 
paperwork thats available from the time. 
I appreciate Mrs O said she didnt know PPI had been added to her loan. I dont doubt that 
this is what she honestly remembers about the sale. But Ive seen a copy of a personal loan 
options repayment form which has been signed by Mrs O. That document shows PPI as an 
additional optional product. It was sent to Mrs O in the post, so I think she would have been 
able to consider that document in her own time and at her own pace. If she hadnt indicated 
she wanted a PPI policy in her initial online application, I think she would have queried why it 
appeared on her loan documentation. The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest she did. 
Ive also been provided with a copy of a schedule of insurance and a welcome letter, which 
again sets out that PPI is an optional extra to Mrs Os loan. It was set out as an additional 
charge on her loan statements. Again, if Mrs O hadn't chosen PPI or if she was unaware of the policy, I think she would have made enquiries about why cover was being set up and 
why she was being charged for it.  
I appreciate it is difficult to remember what happened over 10 years ago, which is when this 
policy was sold. I further appreciate Mrs Os belief that she didnt know about the cover is 
genuinely held. But at the relevant time, Im satisfied she would have been aware of the 
policy and that she could have refused it if she wanted to. 
When PPI was sold, WBL had to make sure Mrs O was given enough information about the 
cover so she could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. That 
information had to be clear, fair and not misleading. Looking at the documents, I think its 
possible that the information Mrs O was given could have been clearer. But that doesnt 
mean I can automatically uphold her complaint. I now have to consider whether Mrs O would 
have acted differently if WBL had told her everything it should have done. 
To help me decide on that point, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy and Ive 
also given careful thought to what Mrs O told us about her personal circumstances at the 
time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the PPI, Mrs Os loan repayments would have 
been covered for the life of her loan if she was too unwell to work. She would have also been 
covered for up to 12 months if she was made redundant.
Mrs O told us she would have had full pay for six months followed by a further six months of 
half pay if she was unwell. But the PPI would have lasted for up to six years, which is 
considerably longer than her sick pay would have lasted. Mrs O also told us that she didnt 
have any other means of making repayments if she couldnt work. 
Mrs O was in good health when PPI was sold to her, so I dont think she would have been 
affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent seen anything 
unusual about her wider circumstances that would have stopped her from being able to 
make a successful claim if she needed to. 
The loan Mrs O had taken out was a significant commitment and so I can see how PPI could 
have been helpful to her if she couldnt work. I appreciate Mrs O doesnt now remember, but 
Ive set out above why I think she probably chose PPI at the time  so it looks as though she 
wanted this type of cover. It follows then that I dont think more or better information about 
the cover would have caused Mrs O to change her mind about taking the policy out. 
For those reasons, the PPI wasnt mis-sold, which means WBL doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs O. However, it will pay back some of the PPI cost to her 
because it got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium). WBL should have told Mrs O about that and the failure to notify her about the  
commission was unfair.
To put that right, WBL offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium.  I think that offer is fair in this case.
 
 
what the business needs to doWBL has to pay back to Mrs O any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. WBL should also pay back to Mrs O any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
WBL should pay back to Mrs O the extra she paid each month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. WBL should also pay Mrs O 8%* 
simple interest on each payment. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs O may be able to claim this 
back if she doesnt pay tax. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Wesleyan Bank Limited does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs O. 
But Wesleyan Bank Limited  does have to pay back to Mrs O any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman