DRN-3795956
The complaint
Mr N complains that he accidentally overpaid, between 2016 and 2018, on his mortgage with 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS). He says hes in financial difficulties, so he 
wants this money back now, and complains that BoS has refused to pay it back to him.
What happened
Between 2016 and 2018 a number of benefit payments were made to Mr Ns mortgage with 
BoS. There was one lump sum paid in June 2016, and then a series of small monthly 
payments. But Mr N also made his full contractual monthly payment during this time, so his 
mortgage was overpaid. 
BoS said it has been sending Mr N annual statements, which showed this overpayment, but 
Mr N apparently only realised this overpayment was there recently, when he was talking to 
BoS about a missed monthly payment to his mortgage. 
At the start of March 2022, Mr N called BoS about the monthly payment which had been due 
at the end of February. His direct debit had bounced, but BoS told him it had an 
overpayment on his account which he could use to cover that monthly payment instead. 
Mr N and BoS agreed then that it would use some of this overpayment to cover the monthly 
payment due for March, but Mr Ns mortgage transactions show that BoS actually then 
received two direct debit payments in March, so the overpayment wasnt used at this time.
Mr N then rang again a few times, and asked BoS to pay the rest of this overpaid money 
back to him. It appears, from these calls, as if Mr N felt that BoS must have been earning 
interest on this money for all the time it had held it. Either that, or it was just sitting there. Mr 
N said this was his money and he wanted it back.
BoS wouldnt pay it back. It said it could use the rest of the overpayment against Mr Ns 
mortgage payments in future. So he could, in effect, miss some mortgage payments, and 
these would be made up out of the credit he had, without affecting his credit file. But it 
wouldnt just give Mr N the cash. Mr N complained.
BoS said it had partly upheld Mr Ns complaint, because it felt it had given him poor service 
on the calls he made on 1 and 2 March. So it paid him £50 because of that. But it still didnt 
think it had to give him the money back. 
Mr N told us this had greatly affected him, he wanted to start a business and needed the 
money. So Mr N asked us to look into this. He wanted all the money back, as well as an 
amount of compensation, which has increased during the time our service has been 
considering this complaint.
When our service asked BoS about this, it confirmed that Mr N had actually made his 
payment for February after all  it was taken by direct debit on 14 March. But hed missed 
his payment for May and then again for August. Both of these payments were taken from his 
pre-existing overpayment, so there was no effect on Mr Ns credit file. BoS showed us 
evidence of this. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he understood Mr Ns 
concerns, that he hadnt been told that he was making overpayments, or about any change 
to the interest on his mortgage, and the reason why he wanted the money back. 
But our investigator said BoS was sending Mr N an annual mortgage statement, sent every 
September, and that would include information on overpayments hed made. 
Our investigator also said this overpayment money hadnt just been sitting there, or earning 
interest for BoS. It had been used to pay off part of Mr Ns mortgage, and reduce the interest 
he was paying. 
Our investigator explained that this wasnt a reduction in the interest rate Mr N was paying, it 
was a reduction on the interest amount  because the overpayment meant he owed BoS a 
bit less money. 
Our investigator said hed checked BoSs policy on overpayments, and it didnt pay those 
back except in some very specific circumstances. Our investigator felt Mr N had benefitted 
from reduced interest charged because of these overpayments, and he thought it was fair for 
BoS to say that this wasnt a recent overpayment made in error. 
Our investigator also said that if BoS paid this money back, Mr Ns payments would go up. 
The same thing would happen if he used all of this credit to cover his monthly payments. 
Our investigator said BoS wouldnt write to Mr N about interest going down, because his 
interest rate wasnt what had changed. The overpayments meant his monthly payments 
were adjusted. And BoS told Mr N about that, in his annual statements. 
Our investigator said BoS had confirmed that it had used part of Mr Ns overpayment to 
cover the monthly payments that he missed in May and August 2022  so there was no late 
payment reported on Mr Ns credit file then. 
Our investigator thought that the £50 BoS had paid was fair, for the poor service Mr N 
received on calls. Our investigator said he wouldnt ask BoS to do more. 
Mr N wasnt happy with that. He said what BoS had done was illegal, and he was in financial 
difficulties, so he wanted his money back. Mr N wanted to complain about our service (and I 
understand that issue has been taken forward separately). He also wanted an ombudsman 
to consider his complaint. This case then came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I can see that BoS received a lump sum payment towards Mr Ns mortgages, which are 
showing as having been received from the Benefits Agency, in June 2016. BoS then 
received smaller payments from the Benefits Agency every month, until April 2018. Mr N was still making his monthly payments at this time, and it doesnt look as if Mr N chose 
to pay less, to take account of the money that the Benefits Agency was paying. He says now 
that he didnt know the Benefits Agency was making payments to his mortgage too.
I can see that, after the Benefits Agency started making its payments onto Mr Ns mortgage, 
his monthly payments went down, in October 2016 and again in December 2017. Interest 
rates actually rose at the start of November 2017, so when other peoples mortgage 
payments were going up, Mr Ns was going down. Mr Ns monthly mortgage payment then 
reduced again, by a small amount, in September 2018. 
I think its likely that these reductions I can see to the monthly payment BoS is asking for, 
were, at least in part, because of the overpayments which were being made. 
So I dont think that the money which was overpaid onto Mr Ns mortgage has been just 
sitting around, not doing anything. I think its been used to help pay off Mr Ns mortgage, and 
hes benefitted from smaller monthly mortgage payments, as a result. And thats why I dont 
agree with Mr N that this is still his money  even after its been paid to BoS. BoS has used 
the overpayment in the same way it uses Mr Ns monthly payment - to reduce his debt.
I also think its likely that all of this information was sent to Mr N in the form of annual 
statements. Mr N said he hadnt received any statements, and he says he just doesnt get 
post. But if Mr N didnt get his statements, I dont think that would be BoS fault.
BoS says once an overpayment has been made, it wont pay that back in future. The only 
exception it makes is if someone overpays by accident, and then asks for that money back 
right away. I dont think its unreasonable or unfair in these circumstances, for BoS to say 
that. And I also dont think its unreasonable or unfair for BoS to say, as this overpayment 
onto Mr Ns mortgage wasnt made recently, it wont just pay this money back to him.
What BoS has said, is that if Mr N finds he cant make his monthly payment in any particular 
month, then it will take the payment out of this overpayment. That might mean his monthly 
payments go back up again, by a small amount (because this extra money is currently being 
used to put him ahead on his mortgage payments, and if its used to cover his monthly 
payments instead, then he wont be as far in front of his payments as he was before). But it 
will also mean theres no impact on Mr Ns credit file, if he does have problems meeting a 
monthly payment or two. 
And I can see that BoS has done this. Mr N missed payments for May and August 2022 and 
BoS has shown us that it took this from his overpayment amount. So his overpayment 
amount has gone down, his monthly payment has gone up a little, and BoS has also shown 
us that it didnt report any missed payment onto Mr Ns credit file at this time.
Mr N said he thought our investigator had got the amount of his overpayment wrong. But I 
think our investigator referred to the amount of his overpayment in March 2022, when he first 
discussed it with BoS. I know Mr N has disputed this figure, but I do think the overpayment 
amount was around £1,300 then. 
But Ive explained that some of this money has since been used to meet his payments in 
May and August 2022, so the total overpayment remaining seems to have been a little less 
than £1,050 at the end of September. BoS can give Mr N more up to date figures on his 
overpayment, if he would like.
When this case came to me, I could see Mr N wanted to send us some call recordings, but 
he hasnt yet done that, and may not yet have been able to listen to those himself. I understand that he had hoped to forward the recordings in late November, but nothing has 
yet been received by our service.
BoS had sent us a number of recordings of calls it had with Mr N, which it has also shared 
with him. Id like to reassure Mr N that I have listened to these carefully. 
I think its the calls Mr N had with BoS, not with our service, that are most important for 
deciding the complaint Mr N brought to us. And I think I have all the available relevant calls 
now. I dont want to delay a resolution in this complaint further for Mr N. So I do think its 
appropriate to decide this complaint now.
Having listened to the calls Mr N has had with BoS, I havent been able to hear that BoS had 
ever told Mr N he could simply have this money back. I think its important to stress that. I 
know that BoS hasnt always set things out as clearly as it could have done, on its calls with 
Mr N. I can hear that some call handlers just werent able to answer the questions Mr N was 
asking. Mortgages are complicated, and not everyone Mr N speaks to at the bank will be 
able to explain his mortgage fully to him. But overall, I think BoS has explained how Mr N 
could use the money, and that he did benefit from having this overpayment in place. 
I do think the payment BoS has made to Mr N, of £50, makes up for some poor service on 
calls to Mr N on 1 and 2 March. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think BoS has 
to pay Mr N back the overpayment that was made onto his mortgage between 2016 and 
2018. I know Mr N will be very disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman