DRN-2136105
The complaint
Mr H and Miss W are unhappy National House-Building Council (NHBC) delayed in telling 
them a claim they made under their Buildmark warranty policy would not be covered. They 
are also unhappy they are being charged for drainage plans.  
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
NHBC has accepted it should have told Mr H and Miss W at the start of the claim that 
unless there was physical damage to their property, their claim under the policy 
wouldnt be accepted at that time. Due to miscommunications, and delays on the part 
of both parties, it took NHBC nearly three years to provide them with this information. 
I appreciate Mr H and Miss Ws reasons for claiming and why they are unhappy the 
claim cant be covered. But having reviewed the policy, I think NHBCs position is 
reasonable. 
In order to carry out a drainage survey, Mr H and Miss W have requested NHBC 
provide them with copies of the drainage plans for their property. NHBC has 
explained there is a charge for these. I understand given what has happened, Mr H 
and Miss W would like NHBC to waive this charge, however this isnt something that 
is within my remit to consider. So, I wont be asking NHBC to do this. 
I cant explain why Mr H and Miss W didnt receive the responses NHBC sent, but I 
do think NHBCs delay in providing the claim information to Mr H and Miss W would 
have caused them distress. Having reviewed everything, I think £150 compensation 
fairly reflects the trouble and upset they have been caused.
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr H and Miss Ws complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr H and Miss Ws complaint against National House-
Building Council. I direct it to pay them £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman