DRN-1951337
The complaint
Mr G complains that a default was applied to his credit card account after he had been told 
this wouldnt happen when he set up a payment plan. Mr G has a Virgin Money credit card 
which is now part of Clydesdale Bank Plc and so the business in this complaint is referred to 
as Clydesdale.  
What happened
Mr G was experiencing some financial difficulties and contacted Clydesdale to discuss a 
payment plan. A plan was agreed and he says he was told that if he maintained this his 
account wouldnt default. Mr G says he made the payments as agreed but his account was 
defaulted.
Clydesdale says that Mr G was placed on a hardship plan on 29 April 2019. It says this is an 
informal arrangement that meant interest and fees were frozen and that a letter confirming 
the details of the plan was sent on 30 April. It says the letter confirmed Mr G should pay 
what he could afford but that the minimum payment amounts were still the due amounts. It 
says on the call Mr G was told his account was 105 days in arrears and that if it reached 180 
days it would be passed to a third party. It issued a default notice on 15 June 2019 setting 
out what needed to be paid by 13 July. As this payment wasnt made the account was 
charged off on 15 July. 
Clydesdale did accept that Mr G had been provided with some incorrect information on the 
call on 29 April and offered to pay him £100 compensation. 
Mr G didnt think that the offer made by Clydesdale was enough to reflect the fact his credit 
file would be affected for six years by the default and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator accepted that Mr G had been provided within correct information on 29 April 
2019 when he set up a payment plan. However, he thought that had the correct information 
been provided the account would still have defaulted due to Mr G not being able to afford the 
payments needed to prevent the arrears from increasing. Therefore, he didnt require 
Clydesdale to remove the default from Mr Gs credit file. Instead he recommended that Mr G 
be paid a total of £250 compensation for being provided with incorrect information on the 
call. 
Clydesdale agreed to the increase in compensation to £250. Mr G said that it had been 
shown he was given incorrect advice which meant he believed his account wouldnt default 
while on the payment plan and that had he been given the correct advice he would have 
been able to make the payments required to stop this happening. He said that the income 
and expenditure assessment wasnt accurate and instead was worked to ensure an 
agreement was made. He said that the default happened because of the incorrect 
information he was given and should therefore be removed from his credit file.
As a resolution hasnt been agreed, this complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G entered into a credit card agreement in 2015 and in doing so agreed to the terms and 
conditions. These included the need to make the minimum monthly payments. The terms set 
out the consequences of these not being made.
Mr G had been assigned breathing space on his account and was sent copies of income and 
expenditure forms to complete. Mr G hadnt returned these and a call took place on 29 April 
when an income and expenditure was carried out. After the information was gathered he 
was asked how much he could afford to pay. Mr G said that he should be able to pay up to 
£100 a month and after further discussion it was thought £80 a month would be a 
comfortable repayment amount. This was an amount less than the monthly minimum 
payments due on his account.
The adviser checked the options available to Mr G and confirmed that an informal hardship 
plan could be put in place. It was explained that Mr G should pay what he could afford each 
month and that interest and charges would be frozen, so his payments reduced his balance. 
A discussion took place about the amounts to pay and Mr G said he wanted to avoid a 
default. It was agreed that the would make a payment of £50 that day and then £80 on 20th 
of each month. He was then told that if he made these payments his account wouldnt reach 
the level of arrears that would trigger a default. Based on this call I think Mr G should have 
been aware that he was on an informal arrangement and that if the arrears increased on his 
account to a certain level then a default could be applied. However, I also think it reasonable 
that he thought by making a payment of £50 at that time followed by £80 a month his arrears 
wouldnt increase, and he would avoid a default.
Mr G was told that he would receive a letter about the plan that had been set up. I accept 
that this letter was sent. The letter set out the details of the payment plan and stated that the 
amount Mr G was able to pay wasnt enough for a formal payment arrangement and Mr G 
would be required to make his minimum payments and that if his arrears continued to 
increase then this may lead to a default. Mr G said he didnt receive this letter. Mr G could 
have chased this as he was told he would receive a letter, but I accept he felt he had the 
information he needed following the call. 
Mr G made a £50 payment on 29 April and said he would set up a standing order for the 
monthly payments. The May 2019 payment wasnt made. I understand this was due to an 
issue with the payment reference however I have nothing to show that Mr G made contact 
about the issue at that time and it appears that a payment wasnt made until 20 June. Given 
this it seems that Mr G hadnt kept to the agreed plan and I dont find it unreasonable that 
further action was taken.
A default letter was sent to Mr G dated 15 June 2019. Mr G was told on the call on 29 April 
that he might receive arrears letters while on the plan and to ignore these. However, this was 
a default notice and I think it reasonable that Mr G would have taken notice of this. The 
default notice set out the payment that was needed to be made by 13 July and what would 
happen if this wasnt made.
A call took place on 20 June on which Mr G made his monthly payment. Mr G was told the 
arrears on his account had increased and that his account was in the process of being 
charged off. While I appreciate Mr G thought, based on the April call, that an agreement was in place that would stop further action being taken, I also note that he was also told on the 
April call that if the arrears went above 180 days his account could be transferred. Mr G was 
asked if he had received a letter about this, but Mr G just reiterated his understanding that 
the account was in a payment plan. 
While I appreciate that Mr G had understood following the April call that this payment would 
be enough to prevent the arrears reaching a level at which further action would be taken, he 
had missed the May payment and was given the information he needed about his arrears on 
the 20 June call. Mr G said he would call back but I cannot see that he did this until after the 
account had been terminated. I also think at this time he would have realised there was an 
issue on his account and had he not taken notice of the default letter previously, would have 
done so at this point. Therefore, while Mr G was given misleading information in April 2019, I 
find that this was corrected before the default was applied. 
I have also considered what would have happened if the correct information had been 
provided in the April call. I understand Mr Gs comments about being able to make the 
minimum payments due but had that been the case I find it reasonable that his account 
would not have been in arrears when he made the call. He also made it clear on the call that 
he couldnt afford more than £100 and as this was less than the minimum monthly amount I 
find it reasonable to accept that he wouldnt have been able to avoid the arrears increasing 
on his account had the correct information been provided. 
Overall while I can understand why Mr G is upset by the actions taken, I think he was 
provided with the information he needed before the account was defaulted. He didnt make 
the May 2019 payment, and, on balance, I do not find that Mr G had the funds available to 
prevent the arrears increasing. Therefore, I find that the default recorded was a true 
reflection of the status on Mr Gs account and I do not require Clydesdale to remove this.
Mr G was clearly provided with incorrect information the April 2019 call. This meant that 
when he called on 20 June he was upset and surprised by the information he received. I 
accept this would have been distressing and think he should be compensated for this. I think 
the £250 that has been recommended is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc should pay Mr G compensation of £250 as it 
has agreed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman