DRN-4483163
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Wakam unfairly declined claims on her pet insurance policy and 
mis-sold the policy to her.
What happened
From January 2019 to January 2023 Mrs C insured her dog, whom Ill call R, with Wakam. 
On 4 March 2023 R was taken to the vet as hed had diarrhoea for about a week. The vet 
prescribed antibiotics.
Later that day Mrs C took out a new policy with Wakam to cover R. The policy started the 
following day and didnt cover pre-existing conditions.
On 20 March R was referred to a specialist for chronic vomiting, diarrhoea and low blood 
protein. Two days later R was found to be suffering from Protein Losing Enteropathy (PLE). 
Sadly R was put to sleep on 24 March.
When Mrs C claimed for the cost of the treatment R had received after the policy began, 
Wakam declined the claims. It said the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions and PLE 
was a pre-existing condition. Wakam settled a separate claim for euthanasia/cremation.
Mrs C didnt agree that the condition being claimed for was a pre-existing condition. She also 
felt she hadnt been given clear information about the exclusion when she took the policy 
out. 
Mrs C brought a complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I 
wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below.
Mrs Cs policy says it doesnt cover pre-existing conditions.
The policy defines a pre-existing condition as anything that your pet has had treatment, 
medication or advice for in the 24 months before your policy starts. We consider advice to 
include anything a vet observed and recorded in your pets clinical history.
Mrs C is aware of our position with regard to pre-existing conditions as shes done research 
on our website. In summary, theyre not inherently unfair provided they are not applied too 
widely. This exclusion is just trying to replicate what would have happened if Mrs C had been 
asked for more information at the outset as no prudent insurer would cover (on normal terms 
or at all) a risk which is inevitable or already existing.
So in order to establish whether an exclusion of this nature has been applied fairly, I usually 
consider a hypothetical question. That is if the insurer had asked the prospective 
policyholder full and detailed questions about material facts such as the pets health at the 
quotation stage, what would the reasonable policyholder have answered and what would the 
prudent insurer have done.
In this case I think Mrs C would have mentioned that from March to May 2022 R was treated 
for bleeding from his anus. An abnormal growth was suspected but whatever it was healed 
up and the vet thought it was probably an anal gland abscess.
On the day of taking the policy out, it would have been on Mrs Cs mind that R was clearly 
unwell. At that stage he was being treated for diarrhoea which hed had for the last week and 
was off solid food, not himself. The vet observed his abdomen was gassy and there was 
slight tensing on palpation. His stools were described as very orangy liquid. The vet noted 
that if there were no improvement after a course of antibiotics, they would consider blood 
tests and /or an ultrasound examination. So if Wakam had asked specific and clear health 
questions, I think Mrs C would have mentioned this as well.
If Wakam had had that information, I think its almost certain that it would have excluded 
cover for claims relating to the digestive/gastrointestinal system or something along those 
lines.
Unfortunately Rs symptoms became worse. When R was seen again by the vet on 20 
March, they noted:
Abdomen is tense and seems painful, has not been vomiting but is not eating well, and has 
had some loose stools.
Abdomen very bloated and tense.
Suspect protein losing enteropathy.
On 22 March the vet noted that Rs abdomen was markedly distended and he was 
uncomfortable on abdominal palpation.
Taking all the above into account on balance I think its likely there was a connection 
between the diarrhoea R was treated for on 4 March and the PLE he was diagnosed as 
suffering from 18 days later. Diarrhoea is a common sign of PLE.
I accept that R hadnt been diagnosed with PLE when the policy was taken out. But there 
doesnt have to be a diagnosis for a condition to be considered as pre-existing. Whats 
required is for the pet to be showing signs of the illness or injury. And this clearly applies to 
R as Mrs C had taken him to the vet because of diarrhoea just before the policy was taken 
out. In my judgement that indicates that the exclusion has been applied fairly and 
reasonably. It follows that I think Wakam was entitled to decline the claims for PLE.
Ive also looked at whether the policy was mis-sold. Mrs C bought the policy on a non-
advised basis. That means Wakam didnt advise or recommend the policy to her. But it had 
to give her enough information about the policy for her to check that it was suitable for her 
needs. It was also obliged to highlight any unusual or onerous parts of the policy and any 
particular exclusions.
Ive been proved with screen shots which show Mrs Cs customer journey. Early on in the 
process Mrs C was asked whether she wanted cover for pre-existing conditions. She was 
told pre-existing condition meant any illness that your pet has had treatment, medication 
or advice for in the last 24 months. That was because Wakam offered another policy which 
did cover pre-existing conditions so long as there had been no treatment, medication or 
advice regarding them in the three months before the policy started. This wording refers to 
any illness. in contrast to the policy wording which refers to anything that your pet has 
had treatment, medication or advice for (my emphasis).I agree with Mrs C that diarrhoea is a symptom rather than an illness in itself. It can be a sign 
of a serious condition like PLE or more usually a one-off occurrence. So I can understand 
why she didnt think she needed the more expensive policy covering pre-existing conditions. 
But that policy wouldnt have covered the claims for PLE either. Thats because the policy 
wouldnt cover any condition for which R had received treatment, medication or advice in the 
three months before the policy started.
Before proceeding to buy the policy, Mrs C was invited to Review your cover and make sure 
you read important information before going to checkout. If shed scrolled down to view the 
Important information, shed have seen nine points that she was asked to confirm. One of 
these was:
I understand there is no cover for pre-existing conditions. This means anything that has 
shown signs and symptoms, or has had treatment, medication or advice for, in the last 24 
months. 
In addition after the purchase was completed, a copy of the policy and a short summary 
document explaining the exclusion was emailed to Mrs C. And she had a 14-day period to 
cancel without penalty if she wished.
I appreciate that Wakam later changed the wording on its website and in its policy 
documentation. But that doesnt necessarily mean that the wording Mrs C saw was unclear 
or unfair. I dont think it was.
I do feel very sorry for Mrs C as she would probably have been covered for these claims if 
she hadnt cancelled her original policy with Wakam. But that unlucky decision isnt 
something for which Wakam can be blamed. Im satisfied she ought reasonably to have 
been aware of the scope of this exclusion before she committed to the new policy.
In summary Mrs C made the following points in response:
R was a Romanian rescue dog and like many of them, never had a good tummy. Hed 
regularly had diarrhoea.
She wasnt particularly worried about R on the day she bought the policy and earlier that 
day the vet hadnt mentioned the possibility of following up with blood tests and an 
ultrasound examination.
It was unfair of Wakam to decline the claim on the basis of information it hadnt asked for 
when she took the policy out.
The website was designed in a way that purchasers were encouraged to go to checkout 
without viewing the assumptions and policy wording which werent clickable.
She doesnt believe she received a copy of the policy documents by email.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and read Mrs Cs submission carefully, Im not going to change my 
provisional decision. I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mrs C but I hope my 
decision explains why.
I appreciate that R had often suffered from diarrhoea and Mrs C wasnt particularly worried 
after taking R to the vet on 4 March although the diarrhoea was serious enough for the vet to 
prescribe a course of antibiotics. But the lack of knowledge on her part that Rs diarrhoea might need further investigations isnt relevant. What is relevant is that the diarrhoea was a 
symptom of a pre-existing condition even if at the time there was no diagnosis of that 
condition. 
Mrs C said that Wakam didnt ask her about Rs health before she bought the policy. But 
Wakam doesnt have to ask such questions before it sells a policy. Its up to insurers 
whether they ask for a full disclosure in advance or rely on the exclusion for pre-existing 
conditions. If they choose the latter, so long as the exclusion is made clear to potential 
customers, I dont think thats unfair.
Its unfortunate that Mrs C didnt see the assumptions before she bought the policy. I dont 
doubt that she genuinely thought shed read all she needed to. But the fact remains that she 
didnt read the full page on which the assumptions were set out and she had been invited to 
review her cover before going to checkout. I understand that the website has since been 
improved but I dont think what was presented to Mrs C was misleading.
I can see that the policy information was correctly addressed to Mrs Cs email address. So I 
cant hold Wakam responsible for the fact that she didnt receive it.
This is a very sad case but I am still of the opinion that I cant fairly hold Wakam responsible 
for the position in which Mrs C finds herself.
I
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman