DRN-4172332
The complaint
Mr O complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt complete his current account 
switch correctly. 
What happened
In late January 2023, Mr O moved his current account to Santander using the Current 
Account Switch Service (CASS). As part of the switch, Santander was meant to move all his 
direct debits over from his previous current account to his new current account. Mr O was 
under the impression the switch had been complete, until early April when he received 
notification from three different companies that his direct debt had been cancelled and hed 
need to contact them to re-set them up.
Mr O was unhappy, so he complained to Santander. Santander reviewed its systems and 
explained that all direct debits had been transferred over and all companies informed. It 
didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr O remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint to this service. He explained that he 
used the CASS because he didnt want to have to go through the trouble of changing the 
direct debits himself. He thought Santander should pay him £100 compensation for the 
stress it caused him.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong. They were satisfied from the evidence provided that Santander had set up new direct 
debit mandates for all of Mr Os existing payments. They explained how direct debits work 
and that the payments have to be pulled by the company who is claiming the money. 
Because theyd seen screenshots from Santander that showed the direct debits were in 
place, they thought theyd met their obligations under the CASS.
Mr O disagreed. He provided a screenshot of the Current Account Switch Guarantee and 
said Santander hadnt meet its obligations. He asked for an ombudsman to review his case, 
so its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain my findings below.
The CASS allows customers to move or switch banks easily. In simple terms, the customer 
will approach their new preferred bank and apply for an account, as well as providing details 
of the account they want to switch from and the date they want to move their account across. 
The new account provider will then switch all payments and the balance of the old account 
over to them. The old provider will then take care of closing the old account. 
The Switch Service is supported by the Current Account Switch Guarantee. This means that 
if theres any issues which cause a delay or theres an error in the switch, the old and new 
account providers will refund any charges or interest incurred because of the error(s). This is 
to ensure the Switch happens smoothly. 
As part of the Switch Santander needed to transfer over multiple direct debits from Mr Os 
old account to his new one. This required Santander to provide new account information to 
the providers/ companies who the direct debit was for. Ive seen evidence to show this 
happened on 4 February.
Because a direct debit is a pull payment there is an obligation on the provider or company to 
claim the payment from the bank. In most instances this worked smoothly for Mr O but for 
three companies it didnt. I think the reason for this is likely to be because the companies 
didnt attempt to claim the money from the account, not because Santander made an error. 
So, whilst I accept this was frustrating for Mr O, I dont think it was Santanders fault that the 
direct debit wasnt successful. Ultimately, Im satisfied Santander did all it could and was 
required to do for the Switch, the rest was outside of its control.
I accept this meant the Switch didnt go smoothly for Mr O and I can understand why he 
mightve thought the Guarantee would mean Santander was liable for any issues. But for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I dont think there were any errors made on Santanders part 
and so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Rachel Killian
Ombudsman