DRN-4053130
The complaint
Mr C complains that Business Insurance Solutions Limited (trading as Vanline Direct)(BISL) 
gave him inaccurate information when he asked it some questions about his commercial van 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C took out a van insurance policy through BISL in May 2022. After paying an initial 
deposit, he paid his annual policy premium by direct debit in 11 monthly instalments.
In June 2022, Mr Cs van was stolen and he claimed on his policy. In August 2022, Mr Cs 
insurer paid his claim. At this point, my understanding is that Mr C hadnt replaced his van, 
so he didnt have another vehicle to insure on his policy.
After his insurer paid his claim, Mr C (through his representative) contacted BISL  who 
administered Mr Cs policy on behalf of the insurer  to find out what to do about his direct 
debit, which hed continued to pay after his van was stolen. Mr C says BISL told him, if he 
was cancelling the policy and not doing a change of vehicle, hed be liable to pay the full 
premium. Mr C asked where in the policy terms it said either of these things. In relation to 
payment of the full premium, BISLs agent pointed Mr C to a term that said:
We may not refund your premium, if you have made a claim, or if one has been made 
against you, during the period of insurance. If you are paying by instalments and have a 
claim you may have to pay the balance of the full annual premium.
The agent couldnt, though, point to anything in the policy terms and conditions that referred 
to changing the vehicle on cover. 
Over the next few days, Mr Cs representative spoke to other BISL agents, both by phone 
and on live chat, because Mr C wasnt confident hed been given the correct information on 
either of the queries hed raised. Still finding BISLs responses unsatisfactory, Mr C made a 
complaint.
BISL didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It referred to the policy wording Ive quoted above to 
explain why Mr Cs insurer wouldnt refund any policy premium. And BISL said if Mr C didnt 
have a vehicle to cover on his insurance, he wouldnt be able to carry on with the policy. It 
said the choice of replacing the vehicle on cover or cancelling the insurance was up to him 
and wasnt set out in the policy terms. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr C brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked 
at it didnt uphold it. He thought the information BISL gave Mr C about the full annual 
premium being payable to his insurer was correct. And he said adding a new vehicle to an 
existing policy after a theft is standard industry practice that he wouldnt necessarily expect 
to be outlined in the policy terms. So he thought the information BISL had given Mr C on that 
point was also correct.
Mr C disagrees. He says BISL wasnt accurate in the information it gave, as different agents 
gave different information about the policy at different times.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
On the issue of payment of the full annual policy premium, Mr C says BISL couldnt say why 
the phrase we may [my underlining] not refund your premium was used in the policy  
rather than we will. 
Most car/van insurance policies have a term like the one in Mr Cs policy, saying (broadly) 
therell be no refund due on the cancellation of a policy if the insurer has paid a claim. Thats 
because, effectively, the policyholder has used the policy. But there are some situations an 
insurer will give its policyholder a proportionate refund of a policy premium if theres been a 
claim  for example, where the insurer has been able to recover its costs in connection with 
a claim from a third party (such as another driver). Thats probably why Mr Cs policy term 
begins with the words may not, rather than will not.
But in Mr Cs case, my understanding is Mr Cs claim wasnt one where his insurer could 
recover its costs from a third party. I think this wouldve been clear to the BISL agent Mr Cs 
representative first spoke to about the premium in August 2022. The agent told Mr Cs 
representative that, if Mr C was cancelling the policy and not doing a change of vehicle, hed 
be liable to pay the full annual premium. At this stage in Mr Cs claim, when it had been 
established that his insurer had been unable to recover its costs, I think the information BISL 
gave was correct. 
Turning next to the issue of the replacement vehicle cover, most car/van insurers will allow a 
policyholder to replace a new vehicle on an existing policy if they no longer have or are using 
the old vehicle. The insurer will re-assess the policy to take account of (among other things) 
the make and model, etc, of the new vehicle, so the policy premium, as well as some of its 
terms and conditions, may well alter. These arent matters Id expect to see referred to in a 
policys terms and conditions but are about what you do as a matter of course to vary or 
cancel etc an insurance policy. In Mr Cs case, BISL said to his representative that, if Mr C 
didnt want to change the vehicle on cover (which he didnt because he didnt have a 
replacement van), the policy would need to be cancelled  because there was no insurable 
asset. So, again, I think the information BISLs agent gave Mr C about this in August 2022 
was correct.
Mr C also says he was given different information at different times by different BISL agents 
about what would happen with his direct debit payments. But, until Mr Cs claim was settled 
by his insurer, BISL wouldnt have known what would happen with his premium payments 
(because, as Ive said, this would depend on whether or not the insurer could recover its 
costs in paying his claim). I think this is likely to account for the different information Mr C 
says he was given at different times by different BISL agents.
I understand Mr C has found this a difficult and upsetting experience, on top of the distress 
of having his van stolen. But, from the evidence Ive seen, I dont think BISL has treated him 
unfairly or unreasonably.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman