DRN-4071725
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt remove the overdraft facility from a joint 
account she holds with her husband, from whom she is separated, when she requested it. 
What happened
Mrs K went into Lloyds branch and asked for the overdraft facility to be removed from a joint 
account she holds with her estranged husband as she didnt want her husband to incur a 
overdraft debt which she would then be held jointly responsible for.
But Lloyds didnt remove the overdraft facility as Mrs K requested, and her husband did later 
withdraw money from the account which left the account significantly overdrawn. Mrs K 
wasnt happy about this, and she also wasnt happy that Lloyds considered her to be jointly 
liable for the overdrawn balance that her husband had accrued. So, she raised a complaint.
Lloyds responded to Mrs Ks and acknowledged that they should have acted to withdraw the 
overdraft facility when Mrs K first asked them to. Lloyds apologised to Mrs K for this and 
made payments totalling £190.95 to her, which included £100 as compensation for any 
trouble and upset their mistake may have caused. 
However, Lloyds still felt that the account overdraft balance  which stood at approximately 
£3,000  should be repaid, and that Mrs K was jointly liable for that balance. Mrs K wasnt 
satisfied with Lloyds response, so she referred her complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. During their review, Lloyds made an 
updated offer to resolve the situation which included ensuring that Mrs Ks credit file wasnt 
impacted by what had happened to date as well as the payment of a further £200 to Mrs K in 
recognition of the upset and inconvenience shed incurred. 
Our investigator felt that Lloyds offer represented a fair outcome to this complaint. But Mrs K 
remained unhappy, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Lloyds have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
It isnt in dispute that Mrs K asked Lloyds to remove the overdraft from the joint bank account 
or that Lloyds then failed to action this request as they should have. And Lloyds inaction 
allowed exactly the outcome Mrs K was trying to mitigate against  the accrual of overdraft 
debt on the joint account by her estranged husband. So, I can understand why Mrs K might 
want Lloyds to either reimburse the amount taken by her husband back to the account or to 
provide assurances to her that she wont be considered jointly liable for the overdraft debt.
Where a bank error is deemed to have occurred, the remit of this service is to instruct the 
bank to take the corrective action necessary to restore the position of the complainant  as 
much as is reasonably possible  to what it should be, had the error never occurred.
However, matters are complicated when a complaint involves a joint bank account and 
especially when one of the joint account holders is unhappy that theyre being held jointly 
liable for the actions of the other joint account holder  as is the case in this instance  even 
when the two joint account holders are in the process of separating, as Mrs K and her 
husband are.
One reason for this is because, given that the bank account in question is a joint account, 
there are technically three parties to this complaint - Mrs K, Lloyds, and Mrs Ks husband. 
And while this service accepts that it wouldnt be appropriate to directly contact Mrs Ks 
husband here  and that we might not receive any response if we did  it remains the case 
that were only privy to two sides of the story of this complaint.
Furthermore, the joint nature of the bank account in questions means that its difficult to 
issue corrective instructions in line with what Mrs K might be seeking which meet the remit of 
this service. This is because Mrs Ks husband has had the benefit of the money that he 
withdrew from the account. And while Mrs K and her husband were separated at the time 
that this took place, they werent divorced.
So, while I agree that Lloyds should have removed the overdraft facility on the account when 
Mrs K asked them to, I dont feel it would be fair to instruct Lloyds to reimburse the money 
withdrawn by Mrs Ks husband back to the account. This is because her husband was  and 
its my understanding, remains  a joint holder of that account, and because he has had the 
benefit of that money. And I also dont feel it would be reasonable for me to instruct Lloyds to 
not consider Mrs K jointly liable for the accrued debt for similar reasons. 
This isnt to say that I dont sympathise with Mrs Ks position here, and I can appreciate how 
distressing these events must have been for her. But it is to say that  given that the money 
was withdrawn by a joint holder of the account who has had the benefit of it  I feel that Mrs 
Ks dissatisfaction about that withdrawal, and the joint debt that was incurred as a result, 
would be more appropriately addressed as a part of any upcoming divorce proceedings that 
Mrs K might be involved in. And if Mrs K isnt anticipating getting divorced, then I feel its fair 
that she should remain jointly liable for the actions of her husband on the joint account.
However, its clear that Lloyds failure to remove the overdraft facility has caused Mrs K 
trouble and distress which I feel its only fair that she should be compensated for. Lloyds also 
feel this way, and theyve offered to pay compensation to her totalling £300 as a result  of 
which I understand £100 has already been paid. And this is in addition to a £75 
reimbursement of account fees and a £15.95 reimbursement of overdraft interest that have 
already occurred.
Additionally, Lloyds have offered to reimburse further overdraft interest to bring the balance 
of the account back within the agreed overdraft limit and have frozen the interest on the 
account so that the balance wont increase further at this time. Finally, Lloyds have also 
agreed to amend Mrs Ks credit file reporting so that her credit file isnt adversely affected by 
whats happened here to date.While I appreciate that Mrs K may disagree, Lloyds actions and further offer  including the 
total compensation amount of £300  does seem fair to me here, and I feel it represents an 
effort by Lloyds to ensure that Mrs K  while remaining jointly liable for the account balance 
 isnt unfairly adversely affected by their mistake.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, and I realise that Mrs K might feel that a larger 
amount of compensation should be merited in this instance. But there are many factors here 
which lead me to believe that £300 is a fair amount in this instance. These include the 
undoubted upset and worry that Mrs K has incurred here, but also that Mrs K asked Lloyds 
to remove the overdraft facility on 20 June 2022 and that her husband then withdrew the 
money from the account nearly a month later, on 15 July 2022. 
Notably, in the period between 20 June 2022 and 15 July 2022, the joint account would have 
continued to show that an overdraft facility remained present on it. And I feel therefore that 
Mrs K had the opportunity for some time after 20 June 2022, to recognise this and to pursue 
and question Lloyds about it so as to further mitigate against the possibility of her husband 
incurring overdraft debt on the account before he did. And in consideration of this point and 
of everything else Ive described in this letter, I feel that £300 is a fair compensation amount.
Putting things right
Lloyds must make a payment to Mrs K of a further £200 compensation  on the 
understanding that £100 compensation has been paid to Mrs K previously  so that the total 
compensation amount payable is £300.
If they havent done so already, Lloyds must make an interest reimbursement to the account 
so that the balance of the account is brought back within the agreed overdraft limit.
Finally, Lloyds must amend Mrs Ks credit file so that she doesnt incur any unfair adverse 
credit file reporting for the events that have happened to date. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman