DRN-3591438
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as G, complains about the actions of The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS) regarding the management of its loan accounts.
What happened
From 2003 onwards, G had borrowing facilities with RBS for its property business. 
In 2009 the company had a number of RBS loans, most of which were due to expire during 
that year. One loan was for a longer term, with an expiry date in 2014. The total borrowing 
from RBS, including its overdraft, was over £4.5m.
In August 2009, RBS transferred its management of the companys accounts to the banks 
Global Restructuring Group (GRG). According to the bank, the reasons were that Gs cash 
flow problems seriously compromised the debt serviceability, Gs borrowing fell outside the 
banks normal lending parameters, and some of the facilities were reaching expiry and would 
require renewal or restructure.
G complained to RBS in 2018, mainly about the banks actions during the period of GRG 
management of its accounts. RBS reviewed the complaint under its voluntary GRG 
complaints scheme and at the same time considered complaint points from other business 
entities connected with G. The outcome for G was that the banks review made no redress 
offer. After its initial findings had also been considered by the Independent Third Party, 
which was the appeal stage of the scheme, the bank confirmed that the outcome of the 
review was unchanged. 
As part of its review findings, RBS apologised for its insufficiently clear communication when 
Gs accounts were transferred to GRG, and regarding delays in sending statements and 
cheque books, but concluded that G had suffered no loss as a result. 
G didnt accept RBSs review findings and referred its complaint to this service.
Gs complaint is made up of a number of points as follows:
Gs accounts were unreasonably transferred to GRG 
Property valuations and a security review were requested at Gs expense
Gs facilities were restructured in 2010 and 2011
G was required to give a cross guarantee
G was required to enter a property participation fee arrangement
The bank unreasonably requested all borrowing to be repaid
Pressure was put on G to sell properties
Properties were sold unreasonably to West Register (a property arm of the bank), 
with a conflict of interest
The return of Gs accounts to mainstream banking was delayed
Mortgage payments werent reduced in line with a previous agreement
Bank statements and cheque books werent issued
Security held against G wasnt reduced after property sales
Our investigator looked in detail into each of the aspects of Gs complaint. He concluded that 
RBS didnt need to do anything further. He thought the evidence didnt show that the bank 
had acted unreasonably or unfairly.
G didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Gs director has separately made a complaint against the bank about related events. He 
brings that complaint in his capacity as a sole trader and this service is considering it 
separately under a different complaint reference. For the avoidance any doubt, I should 
stress that my decision here is solely about the complaint by G, the company.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for largely the 
same reasons, which I summarise below.
Both parties have sent us a substantial volume of evidence and arguments, and Id like to 
assure them Ive looked at all the submissions with care. Ill concentrate here on the key 
evidence and arguments that are material to my determination of the complaint.
Ill consider the complaint points as listed above.
Transfer of Gs accounts to GRG
At the time of the transfer, three of Gs loans had passed their expiry date and three others 
were due to expire within two months, all without agreement on repayment or restructuring. 
Im satisfied that the bank genuinely held other concerns about Gs borrowing, in that the 
loan to value ratio (LTV) was higher than the banks normal limits and Gs cash generation 
may not have been sufficient to service the debt. In my view, a bank is entitled to organise 
the management of its work and staff in whichever way it considers best, as long as it treats 
its customers fairly. Given the expiry of Gs facilities and the banks concerns about the 
lending risks, I dont think it was unreasonable for RBS to transfer the management of the 
companys accounts to a specialist unit in August 2009.
RBS didnt explain in advance of the management handover meeting that the accounts 
would be moving to GRG. The bank has apologised to the company and says it should have 
set out more clearly the reasons for the transfer. RBS had already made the decision to 
move the accounts to GRG, so I dont believe that would have changed if the bank had 
communicated it better. I cant see that the poor communication caused G any loss, and in 
my view the apology was enough to settle this aspect of the complaint. I dont require RBS to 
do anything further.
Property valuations and security review
Given that Gs loans were expiring and the bank was considering the risks involved in 
renewal of the facilities, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of the bank to seek 
updated valuations of properties held as security in 2009, especially as bank had a particular 
concern about the LTV. Under the terms and conditions of Gs loans, the bank was entitled 
to request valuations at the customers expense. I can see that a fee was charged to G for valuation of properties of an associated company 
whose accounts were also under GRG management alongside G as part of the same 
connection. The other company could not cover the valuation cost. In the circumstances, 
given that G and the other company were under common ownership, that G had been 
making loan repayments on behalf of the other company, and that restructuring of the 
lending to both companies was under consideration at the time, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the bank to debit the valuation fee to G.
Similarly, I think that in the circumstances in 2009, it was reasonable of the bank to seek an 
updated picture of its legal security at the customers cost, as was permitted under the loan 
terms and conditions. The flat fee of £2,000 plus VAT covered all properties within the group 
 the two companies and the sole trader  but again, the bank was considering the 
restructure of lending for all parts of the group together at the time, so I dont think it was 
unfair to debit the security review fee to G.
Restructure of facilities in 2010 and 2011
Most of Gs lending was expiring in 2009, so in the absence of repayment I think it was 
reasonable of the bank to consider restructuring the lending. G might have preferred the 
lending to be renewed on the same terms as before, but the bank was entitled to offer 
renewal on different terms reflecting its commercial assessment of the risks at the time. 
Early in 2010, RBS offered G a single three-year loan which consolidated all the companys 
loan borrowing. The interest margin offered was in line with the banks general lending 
policy, taking into account the banks assessment of the lending risk, and wasnt unusually 
high for lending in the market at the time. G accepted the banks terms. RBS also renewed 
Gs overdraft facility on terms consistent with its own general policy and with market rates. 
G sought an increase in its overdraft in May 2011. In July 2011, Gs loan and overdraft were 
consolidated and increased. Moving the overdraft into the consolidated loan reduced the rate 
of interest on that part of the borrowing. In the circumstances, I think that was a reasonable 
thing to do.
For these reasons, I dont think the banks actions in offering and agreeing restructured 
loans in 2010 and 2011 were unfair or unreasonable.
Cross guarantee
RBS required G to offer a cross guarantee for the lending to the associated company, as 
part of the wider restructuring of debt within the group. G has argued, through its 
representative, that the evidence shows that the bank already held enough security. But 
given the connections between the companies and the business uncertainties at the time, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for the bank to require cross guarantees. In any event, I cant 
see that G suffered any loss as a result. For these reasons, I dont require the bank to do 
anything regarding the requirement for G to give a cross guarantee.Property Participation Fee Arrangement (PPFA)
G has argued that there was no justification for requiring the company to enter such an 
agreement as part of the loan restructuring. But I agree with the investigator that this was 
part of the banks response to the expiry of the existing loans and, in the difficult market 
conditions in Gs business sector, the PPFA may have enabled the bank to offer renewed 
lending in spite of other risk factors and possibly on better terms. In any event, the fee was 
never charged, so G suffered no loss. For these reasons, I dont require the bank to do 
anything regarding the requirement on G to enter a PPFA.
Request for repayment of Gs borrowing
Im not aware of any evidence that the bank demanded repayment of any of Gs borrowing 
during the period covered by this complaint. 
Pressure to sell properties
G did sell properties, but as the investigator pointed out, the bank didnt enforce its security 
or appoint receivers. 
After the 2010 restructure, the expiry date for Gs facilities was December 2012. Its not 
unusual for lending on property to be repaid by the sale of assets, and my understanding is 
that from the outset of Gs borrowing, both parties expected that to happen here. RBSs view 
during the period covered by the complaint was that rental income wouldnt reduce the debt 
over a reasonable amount of time. For these reasons, while the bank didnt appoint receivers 
or enforce its security, I dont think it was unreasonable of the bank to expect that G would 
sell properties to repay its debt by the end of 2012, or to communicate that expectation to G. 
Im also satisfied the bank gave G time to consider the option of re-financing with another 
lender. 
The process of selling the properties was managed and controlled by G and the property 
agents. The bank did have an input, but in my view it was reasonable for the bank to 
respond to sale offers. RBS has pointed out that, as security holder, it needed to be 
comfortable with the sale proceeds before releasing security. From the evidence Ive seen, I 
dont conclude that the bank drove G to accept offers below market value. Rather, it appears 
that the bank was reluctant to accept lower sale prices.
I therefore dont think the bank acted unfairly or unreasonably in respect of the property 
sales.
West Register
Our investigator said that the bank did refer G to West Register, but there was no evidence 
that West Register had sole access to the Gs property sales. He said G was free to market 
their properties openly and West Register would have had external competition from the 
open market when making bids to purchase properties. The investigator said there was no 
evidence that RBS made it a condition that properties were only to be sold to West Register, 
or that the bank had control over the property sales.
There was communication between GRG managers and West Register, but G was made 
aware of this, and the company was able to communicate direct with West Register. 
G points out that the final price for its sale of some properties to West Register was lower 
than some offers previously rejected by the bank. But I dont believe this was a result of 
GRG conspiring with West Register in order to obtain the properties cheaply. I think the banks reluctance to accept low offers in 2011 and 2012 was reasonable, as it was 
concerned about not realising the full value of the security to pay off the lending. Indeed, I 
note that when West Register first made an indicative offer for properties in the autumn of 
2011, the bank expressed the view that it wasnt a good offer and recommended G not to 
sell. In 2012, when there were negotiations over further offers which eventually led to the 
purchases by West Register, I believe it was in RBSs interest to see the properties achieve 
the best price possible, because at this time it knew there was insufficient security to repay 
the banks lending. For these reasons, I dont believe that there was a conflict of interest 
which led to the achieved property prices being driven down. 
I agree with the investigator that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable of the bank to refer G to 
West Register when the company was attempting to sell properties, and I dont believe the 
banks departments worked together to allow Gs properties to be sold at values lower than 
could otherwise have been achieved. 
Return of accounts to mainstream banking
Gs accounts werent returned from GRG to mainstream banking in RBS. The bank said this 
was because the financial circumstances of the group didnt meet the criteria for return. 
Ive already said that I believe the bank is entitled to organise the management of its work 
and staff in whichever way it considers best, as long as it treats its customers fairly. If RBS 
considered that the financial position of the group was such that Gs accounts would be 
managed better by remaining in GRG, I wouldnt interfere with that. I dont think the bank 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
Non-reduction of mortgage payments
G has complained that the bank didnt keep to an agreement to reduce repayments in line 
with the sale of assets, which put a strain on the business. RBS has said theres no evidence 
of any such agreement.
I dont doubt the sincerity of Gs directors recollections, but Ive seen no documents or 
records of any agreement, formal or informal, that the mortgage repayments would reduce in 
this way. 
Bank statements and cheque books
RBS acknowledged that there were several instances of delays in providing statements and 
cheque books. When G complained at the time, the bank put things right but there were 
further problems and delays. The bank offered online banking facilities, but I understand G 
didnt take them up. The bank apologised for the inconvenience.
G has complained that the bank deliberately held up statements and cheque books in order 
to put pressure on the company. Ive seen no evidence to support that. Statements and 
cheque books would have been processed and dispatched centrally by the bank, not by 
GRG. From what Ive seen, the GRG managers tried to help resolve the problems for G. Im 
satisfied that GRG didnt contrive to delay these items to put pressure on G.
Security held after properties sold
G complains the security held for lending to G should have been reduced when properties 
were sold in realisation of the directors personal guarantee security. I havent seen any 
evidence that there was an agreement to reduce the companys security in this way. I also agree with the investigator that the complaint Im determining here is about the banks 
actions towards G, the company, and cannot include the directors own complaint points 
regarding his personal guarantee liability.
In conclusion
I find that on most points in the complaint, RBS hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards G. RBS has acknowledged that its communication was inadequate at the time of the 
transfer to GRG and that some statements and cheque books were delayed. The bank has 
apologised for these failures. I agree that there was no loss caused to G and I think the 
banks apology was enough to settle these parts of the complaint.
I realise that Gs director will be disappointed by my decision and Im aware of the strength 
of his feelings about the complaint. But, having considered all the evidence and arguments, I 
dont think RBS needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require RBS to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman