DRN-3961464
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) recorded adverse information to credit 
reference agencies in relation to his overdraft.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
It isnt in dispute that Mr As Santander account had an outstanding overdrawn balance on it. 
I can see that numerous letters were sent to Mr A to advise him of this. I know that Mr A 
says that he didnt receive all of the letters but its clear that he at least received some of 
them because a repayment plan was actually put in place.
As Santander didnt receive the agreed payments it wrote to Mr A in January 2022 providing 
him with a final opportunity to make the necessary payments to bring his plan up to date. 
Im satisfied that Santander sent these letters to the address it held for Mr A, which is the 
address that Mr A received other letters at. This means that Im also satisfied that Santander 
took reasonable steps to notify Mr A that he was in arrears on his plan. 
Bearing in mind the above and Mr A didnt make the repayments required to bring his plan 
up to date, within the specified period, Im satisfied that Santander was entitled to record the 
relevant information with credit reference agencies. 
I appreciate that Mr A believes this is unfair. And I know that hes said he was only left with 
this outstanding amount on his Santander account because he switched to another bank 
after hed had previously difficulty with his account details being compromised. But while I 
sympathise with Mr As previous difficulties, this doesnt change the fact that he was behind 
on repayments to an amount it isnt in dispute he owed. 
Furthermore, Santander has a duty to report accurate information to credit reference 
agencies. As Mr A was behind on his arrangement, I think that Santander was not only 
entitled to report the information it did, it was under an obligation to do so. After all not doing 
so would have required Santander to report that Mr A was up to date with his payments 
when this wasnt the case.
So overall and having considered everything, while I do appreciate Mr As strength of feeling 
on this matter, I dont think that Santander has treated him unfairly. And so Ive not been 
persuaded to uphold Mr As complaint. I realise that this will be very disappointing for          
Mr A. But I hope that hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman