DRN-3633977
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the advice given by NTM Financial Services Ltd (NTM) to transfer 
the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. She says the advice was unsuitable and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mrs Ts former employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme, of 
which she was a deferred member) from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included transferring 
the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme 
(BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mrs Ts employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options; to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
In November 2017, the DB scheme administrators sent Mrs T information about her deferred 
entitlement under the DB scheme including a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
illustration. The CETV stated that Mrs T had 17 years 5 months of pensionable service in the 
DB scheme and that the total transfer value of her benefits was £260,363.26.
Mrs T approached NTM and an initial meeting was held on 11 December 2017 to discuss 
her options. NTM completed a joint fact-find with Mrs T, and her husband Mr T, to gather 
information about their circumstances and objectives along with undertaking an assessment 
of their attitude to risk. 
At that time Mrs T was 48 years old and married to Mr T who was 49 years old. They had 
two grown up non-dependent children. Both Mrs T and Mr T were working. Mrs T was a 
deferred member of the BSPS and an active member of her current employers group 
personal pension plan (GPP). Mr T was also a member of the BSPS along with a member 
of his employers new defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. Mrs T and Mr T owned 
their own home which was valued at £102,000 and was mortgage free. They also owned a 
second property valued at £85,000 on which they had an outstanding mortgage of £36,000 
which was due to be repaid in 2022. It was also noted that they had no savings. Mrs T had 
outstanding car finance of £11,500 and Mr T had credit card debt of £12,900 along with 
outstanding car finance of £5,000. The fact-find also noted that Mrs Ts attitude to risk 
(ATR) was low and Mr Ts ATR was low to medium. 
 
On 18 December 2017 NTM produced its joint suitability report, sending it to Mrs T and Mr T 
on 22 December 2017. NTM recommended that Mrs T transfer her DB scheme pension 
benefits into a personal pension and invest the proceeds with a provider I shall call A. The 
suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were because Mrs T and Mr T 
wanted: -
the flexibility to take early retirement. Mrs T wanted to retire at age 55 and Mr T wanted 
to retire at age 57;
flexibility around how they took their income benefits in retirement;
to obtain the maximum tax-free cash (TFC) possible in order to fund higher expenditure 
in the early years of their retirement;
to take control of their pensions and avoid any further uncertainty or decline in their 
benefits;
a retirement income of £1,500 each;
to ensure their pension benefits werent lost on death and that they could both inherit a 
capital sum rather than receive a spouses pension that;
to avoid their pension benefits moving to the PPF.
The suitability report stated both Mrs Ts and Mr Ts ATR was average. And it said that the 
growth rates required (the critical yields) to match the benefits from the PPF for retirement at 
either age 65 or age 55 were achievable based on Mrs Ts current attitude to risk. 
A follow up meeting was held between NTM and Mrs T and Mr T on 11 January 2018 to 
review the contents of the suitability report. On the same day Mrs T signed the application 
forms to proceed with the transfer.
On 15 December 2021, Mrs T complained to NTM about the suitability of the transfer advice 
she had received. Specifically she said that a personal pension was inferior to the 
guarantees and security offered by a DB scheme. 
NTM looked into Mrs Ts complaint but didnt think that it had done anything wrong. It said 
the advice it gave her in 2017/2018 was regulatory compliant. And it said it had been unable 
to advise Mrs T on transferring to BSPS2 because the date for opting into that scheme had 
expired prior to it providing its advice. In summary, NTM said that a transfer to the PPF 
would not have been appropriate for meeting her stated objectives or in her circumstances in 
general. 
Unhappy with the outcome of NTMs investigation into her complaint, Mrs T complained to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into Mrs Ts complaint 
and recommended that it was upheld. He thought that whilst the transfer was potentially 
financially viable based on Mrs T having a balanced attitude to risk he noted that NTM had 
initially noted her to be a low-risk investor. Our Investigator thought the sudden change in 
Mrs Ts attitude to risk was without explanation and he also thought she had a low capacity 
for loss. For these reasons, together with there being a lack of other compelling reasons to 
justify the transfer, our Investigator thought that NTM hadnt been able to clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer had been in Mrs Ts best interests. 
Our Investigator said NTM should undertake a redress calculation assuming that Mrs T had 
moved to the PPF. If a loss was established, our Investigator recommended that NTM 
compensate Mrs T in line with the regulators guidance on how to calculate redress in 
unsuitable DB transfer complaints. Our Investigator also recommended that NTM pay Mrs T 
compensation of £250 for any distress and inconvenience caused.NTM replied to our Investigator to say that it was prepared to carry out the redress 
calculation, without any admission of liability, in order to establish if Mrs T had sustained a 
financial loss. It asked our Investigator to obtain some information from Mrs T that it needed 
in order to be able to run the calculation. Mrs T declined to provide the information NTM 
needed, stating she preferred her complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
Because this complaint couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTMs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, NTM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mrs Ts best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in her best interests.Financial viability 
NTM carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS)  as required by the regulator  
which showed how much Mrs Ts pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to 
provide the same benefits as her DB scheme (known as the critical yield). NTMs TVAS 
showed two comparisons, the first with Mrs Ts benefits from the BSPS and the second with 
her benefits if they moved to the PPF. 
When Mrs T approached NTM for advice she had until 22 December 2017 to tell the trustees 
of the BSPS whether she wanted to opt into the BSPS2 (and until February 2018 to decide if 
she wanted to transfer out of her employers DB pension scheme altogether). NTM didnt 
send Mrs T its suitability report until 22 December 2017 which was too late for her to read it 
before the deadline for opting into the BSPS2. Mrs T then met with NTM in January 2018 to 
discuss its recommendations by which time there were only two options open to her  
allowing her DB pension scheme to move to the PPF or to transfer it out to an alternative 
arrangement. Consequently, the only comparison within the TVAS of any real relevance was 
that which compared the benefits of transferring to a personal pension with the benefits 
provided by the PPF. 
Mrs T was aged 48 at the time of the advice and she said she wanted to retire at age 55. In 
the TVAS, NTM said the critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 
55 was 3.81% per year if Mrs T took a full pension and 3.37% per year if she took TFC and a 
reduced pension. At the schemes normal retirement age of 65 the critical yields to match the 
benefits available through the PPF were 2.94% and 2.68% respectively. Ive kept in mind too 
that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2%. 
Prior to October 2017 the Financial Ombudsman Service published future 'discount rates' in 
loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Ill 
explain that a discount rate is a measure of what an investment is likely to grow at in the 
future. They provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. In Mrs Ts case the discount rate for retirement 
at age 65  still over 16 years away - was 4.3%. That is above the rate required to match the 
PPF benefits. And that discount rate falls to 3.3% for early retirement at age 55 which is 
slightly below the rates required to match the PPF benefits. 
So, by taking early retirement at age 55, the gap between the critical yield required and the 
likely growth rate meant Mrs T would likely be worse off by transferring to a personal pension 
and taking early retirement. I accept that the growth rate required for retirement at age 55 is 
only slightly below the discount rate. But there would be little point in Mrs T giving up the 
guarantees available to her through the PPF only to achieve, at best, the same level of 
benefits outside the scheme. But here as Ive said, given the lowest critical yield was 3.37%, 
I think Mrs T was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those offered by the 
PPF if she retired early at age 55 as a result of investing in line with a medium ATR. 
And whilst its arguable that the critical yields for the PPF at age 65 may have been 
achievable for someone with a medium/balanced attitude to risk, Im unable to agree with the 
assessment NTMs about Mrs Ts ATR in any event. I say this because in the fact-find Mrs T 
ticked the box to say she aligned her ATR with investors in the Low risk group [who] are 
prepared to take a small degree of risk with their financial decisions. 
Ive taken note of NTMs ATR questionnaire which Mrs T completed on the same day as the 
fact-find. It contains twelve questions each with a selection of tick box answers. NTM 
assessed Mrs Ts answers and classed her as having an average ATR, scoring her at 51 out of a possible 100. But I would expect someone whose ATR is assessed as 51 out of 100 
to be able to display some evidence of previous investment experience. The fact-find 
mentions that there was once an ISA (which no longer existed) and some shares in Mrs Ts 
former employers company. But the fact-find, which was jointly completed, doesnt state 
whether the ISA and the shares belonged to Mr T (who NTM categorised as having a 
medium ATR) or Mrs T. None of the meeting notes on file indicate that Mrs T had any 
investment experience either or that she held any savings or investments at all. Mrs Ts only 
assets were her home and her mortgaged investment property (in which one of her children 
lived). 
And the meeting notes document that Mr and Mrs T understood the need to achieve a return 
greater than the critical yield and that Mr T was happy to accept that level of risk. The notes 
are silent though on whether Mrs T felt the same or whether, despite understanding what 
was required, she was comfortable with the level of risk necessary. 
So I dont think there was anything in Mrs Ts profile that, in my view, could lead to the 
conclusion that she should reasonably be classified as someone whose ATR was 
average/medium and who was willing to take the investment risks necessary to achieve the 
returns needed so that her personal pension fund grew to a point that it was able to match 
the benefits offered by the PPF. And I cant ignore that her initial response to NTMs 
question about her ATR (on its fact-find) was that she saw herself as a low-risk investor.
Given her personal circumstances at the time, I think Mrs T should more reasonably have 
been assessed by NTM as having a low ATR. Had that been the case, I think that its 
unlikely she would be willing to take the investment risks necessary to achieve an annual 
investment return in excess of 2.68% (a rate that is greater than the regulators lower 
projection rate) just to match at age 65 the PPF benefits being given up. In any event, there 
would be little advantage to giving up the guarantees associated with the PPF just to be able 
to match  not even exceed  the benefits being given up. 
Nor do I think that the length of time Mrs T had to go to retirement meant her capacity for 
loss was significant. I can see that Mrs T had no savings at the time of the advice. She had a 
mortgage with five years to run and credit card debt she was trying to clear. And there was a 
family wedding to help pay for in the near future. So I dont think Mrs T could afford to 
gamble by transferring her DB scheme. The income she was forecast to receive at 
retirement from the PPF is, I think, one she didnt have the capacity to lose. 
So I think Mrs T was likely to receive lower benefits than those offered by the PPF if she 
retired early at age 55. Similarly, if Mrs T waited until age 65 to retire, given that the critical 
yield was 2.68%, that her ATR should more reasonably have been assessed as no more 
than low and that the regulators lower projection rate was 2%, I think she was likely to 
receive benefits of a lower overall value than those from the PPF when retiring at age 65 as 
well. Transferring meant putting Mrs Ts funds at risk for only a small possibility that she 
could be better off by doing so (and then only if she deferred any retirement to age 65). And 
should Mrs Ts funds not meet NTMs projected growth rates then she was likely to be worse 
off in retirement. So I dont think NTM has been able to clearly demonstrate (as required by 
the regulator) that it was in Mrs Ts best interests to transfer her DB scheme benefits to a 
personal pension.
In any event, whatever age Mrs T planned to retire at, for the reasons Ive given here, I think 
she was likely to be financially worse off by transferring to a personal pension than she was 
from leaving her benefits in the DB scheme and letting them move into the PPF. For this 
reason alone I dont think a transfer was in Mrs Ts best interests. So I've gone on to 
consider the other key reasons that NTM cited for recommending a transfer. Flexibility, income needs and early retirement
NTM said that transferring meant Mrs T could retire early at age 55. But having considered 
the evidence here I dont think Mrs T had a genuine need to access her pension funds 
earlier than the schemes normal retirement age of 65. Ill explain why. 
I can fully appreciate Mrs Ts stated desire to retire early  most people would say they 
would like to do the same if given the chance. But I also think that the majority of people that 
said as much would understand that having the opportunity to retire early isnt worth 
compromising income security for the remainder of their retirement for. So I dont think its 
unreasonable to assume that Mrs T would have reassessed her situation once she reached 
the age of 55. In fact Mrs T is almost 55 now and told us she has no current expected early 
retirement date. So I think that early retirement was something that was most likely to be a 
nice to have rather than a genuine need. 
When faced with the prospect of a significant drop in income by taking early retirement, one 
that would reduce both spending power and lifestyle choices, most people elect not to do so. 
Instead they choose to keep working to support their current and future lifestyles. I think that 
was a more likely prospect for Mrs T at the time of NTMs advice. But Ive seen no evidence 
that NTM challenged Mr Ts wish to retire at age 55. 
And whilst its true to say that Mrs T couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to 
her PPF funds as she could from a personal pension, and I can see that flexible access 
might have been an attractive prospect for her, Im not persuaded that Mrs T had any 
concrete need to vary her income throughout retirement. But, if she believed she did, there 
was no requirement for her to give up the safeguarded benefits from her DB scheme in order 
to have some flexible access to retirement funds. I say this because by the time she was 
advised by NTM, Mrs T had worked for her current employer for almost 5 years which had 
provided her with a GPP. NTM didnt obtain details from Mrs T about the value of her GPP 
so theres nothing on the file from the time of the advice to indicate what it might have been 
worth at that point in time or in the future. Mrs T remains employed however so it is 
reasonable to assume that her GPP remains in place and continues to grow. 
The nature of a GPP is such that it already provided Mrs T with flexibility  she wasnt 
committed to take its benefits in a set way. Mrs T could have taken lump sums as and when 
required and adjusted the income she took from it according to her needs. So, I think if Mrs T 
retained her DB pension by moving into the PPF this, combined with her GPP, would have 
likely given her the flexibility to retire early - if that was what she ultimately decided. 
And while she could have chosen to take her pension from the PPF early, if she had wanted 
to take TFC, then she would have had to take that at the same time as drawing a regular 
income from his pension. Whereas the GPP would allow Mrs T to draw down funds as she 
saw fit. But while I can see why the flexibility associated with a personal pension might have 
been an attractive prospect for Mrs T, Im not persuaded that she had any concrete need to 
take TFC at all. Ive seen reference to Mrs T needing £20,000 some three years after the 
advice to assist with the cost of a wedding, but Mrs T would only have been aged 51 by that 
point and unable to access any tax-free cash in any event. 
NTM also documented that Mrs T wanted a retirement income of £1,500 per month. It said 
she couldnt achieve this by remaining in her DB scheme. Ive already said above that I dont 
think the transfer was a financially viable one for Mrs T. It is also significant though that at 
the time of the advice, Mrs T had seven years to go before her stated preferred retirement 
date. I can accept that with all the discussion around her former employers pension at the 
time, Mrs T may have begun to think about her retirement plans but Im not persuaded from 
the evidence that Ive seen that they were set in stone. I say this for example because there is no evidence that Mrs T had given any thought to her expenditure needs in retirement 
aside from citing a global figure of £1,500 per month and stating that she thought she would 
need more income in the early years of her retirement and less as she aged. 
NTM appears to have recommended that Mrs T transfer her DB scheme benefits because 
she couldnt achieve her income objective of £1,500 per month by transferring to the PPF. 
But Im not persuaded that NTM did enough here to interrogate Mrs Ts retirement income 
objective in order to determine whether or not it was realistic or achievable. Notably, NTM 
did not carry out an analysis of Mrs Ts potential expenditure in retirement to determine 
whether or not £1,500 per month was what she actually needed in order to achieve her 
retirement goals. And nor am I sure how NTM could reach this conclusion without fully 
understanding what Mrs Ts pension entitlement from her GPP was forecast to be. By failing 
to find out about Mrs Ts GPP NTM didnt have full regard to Mrs Ts information needs and 
wasnt, in my view, in a position to fully advise her. 
And in the circumstances, and if it was having regard to Mrs Ts information needs, I think 
that in addition to ascertaining what level of income and tax-free cash Mrs T might be able to 
expect from her GPP, part of the analysis could have included what income she could 
expect to receive from the PPF at age 60. That way she could have seen what effect 
delaying her retirement to that age would have on the income she could expect to receive. 
The outstanding balance on the mortgage on Mr and Mrs Ts second home was due to be 
cleared before Mrs T reached age 55 as was their credit card debt. Taking both into account, 
NTM could then have explored how the pension paid by the PPF together with Mrs Ts GPP 
pension could have met her income needs at both ages 55 and 65 (and preferably age 60 
too). 
It was NTMs responsibility to determine whether giving up the secure, guaranteed benefits 
associated with the PPF was in Mrs Ts best interests. As part of this I think it was necessary 
to carry out this analysis. If NTM didnt think Mrs Ts plans were realistic then it should have 
made that clear to her. That way she would have had the information she needed to make a 
fully informed decision and that includes the option to reconsider her target retirement 
income and her target retirement date. However, Im not persuaded this was carried out 
clearly such that I can reasonably conclude that NTM acted in Mrs Ts best interests. 
Death benefits
Mrs T was attracted by the lump sum death benefits offered by transferring to a personal 
pension because she thought they offered her family a much higher degree of protection and 
flexibility than the death benefits on offer from the PPF. Mrs T also preferred that the death 
benefits associated with a personal pension allowed her to select how they would be paid. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mrs T. Thats because 
whatever was left of the personal pension fund on the date of her death would be passed to 
Mr T (or her nominated beneficiaries). If that happened before Mrs T retired, or shortly after, 
then that would likely be a significant sum. In contrast the PPF would pay Mr T half of 
Mrs Ts yearly pension entitlement after she died. But that pension would die with him so 
Mr T wouldnt be able to leave it as legacy for their children. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs T might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mrs T about what was best for her retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. But in transferring out of her 
DB scheme, Mrs T was essentially giving up a guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement in exchange for a potential lump sum that her family may never receive. And if 
Mrs T lived a long life, her pension fund could have been considerably depleted, meaning 
there would be little by way of a legacy in any event. 
I dont think NTM explored to what extent Mrs T was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher death benefits. I also think the existing death benefits 
attached to the PPF were underplayed. In fact, NTMs suitability report doesnt refer to the 
PPF death benefits at all, only quoting Mr Ts entitlement from the DB scheme. It is worth 
commenting that the death benefits from the PPF arent as generous as those provided by 
the DB scheme. For example, the PPF doesnt provide any form of capital lump sum on 
death. But because Mrs T had lost the entitlement to the DB scheme benefits by the time 
she received NTMs suitability report, I think NTM should have included an explanation in the 
report about what the PPFs death benefits were; however, it didnt do so. 
Regardless of any inferiority in the death benefits offered by the PPF in comparison to those 
from the BSPS, I dont think this justifies a recommendation to transfer Mrs Ts DB scheme 
benefits to a personal pension.
Mrs T was married, so the spouses pension provided by the PPF scheme wouldve been 
useful to Mr T in the event of her death. It was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. And there may not have been a large sum left in the personal pension if Mrs T 
lived a long life, or she took large sums from it in early retirement, or if her investments 
suffered a prolonged period of poor performance.  In any event, NTM should not have 
encouraged Mrs T to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over her security in retirement. 
Furthermore, if Mrs Ts concern about wanting to leave a lump sum legacy was genuine one, 
then NTM should have reminded her that she was a member of a GPP where she would 
have been able to nominate beneficiaries for this plan too (if she hadnt already done so). 
Alternatively, if Mrs T wanted to leave a legacy for Mr T and their children, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her death then 
life insurance may have met her needs. 
Ive noted that NTM did look into the cost of life insurance which its suitability report said 
would cost Mrs T £247 a month. NTM didnt think that was viable on the grounds of cost. But 
I dont think that NTM presented this option in a balanced way. I say that because NTM 
based the quote on the full transfer value of Mrs Ts DB scheme which essentially assumes 
that she will die on day one after the transfer which isnt, in my view, a realistic way to look at 
it. Ultimately, Mrs T wanted to leave whatever remained of her pension to her husband or 
children which would be a lot less than the full transfer value if she lived a long life or if 
investment returns were poor. So, the starting point ought to have been to ask Mrs T how 
much she would ideally like to leave to her husband and children, and how much she could 
afford to pay each month. Insurance on this basis was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide 
and would have enabled her to leave a legacy without risking her retirement income. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the risk attached to transferring Mrs Ts pension. And I dont think NTM did 
enough to highlight the value of the death benefits associated with the PPF or to explore the 
alternatives available to her. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I understand that Mrs T, like many of the BSPS scheme members probably felt at the time, 
was concerned about her pension and specifically it ending up in the PPF. So its possible Mrs T was leaning towards the decision to transfer her DB scheme benefits to a personal 
pension because of the concerns she had. But it was NTMs responsibility to provide Mrs T 
with an objective viewpoint and recommend what was in her best interests. 
While I can see that NTM said in the suitability report that the PPF provides excellent 
protection and would secure most of the income you desire, in my view, NTM subsequently 
went on to somewhat undermine this statement because it went on to say that the PPF 
wouldnt meet Mrs Ts stated objectives of flexibility, the ability to tax-plan using the tax-free 
cash and for lump sum death benefits. 
But I think NTM should have done more to reassure Mrs T that her DB scheme moving to 
the PPF wasnt as concerning as she thought or had been led to believe. It would have still 
given her the option to take early retirement, if that was something she ultimately decided 
she wanted to do. I think the income available to Mrs T through the PPF would have 
provided her with a solid base which her GPP, and ultimately her state-pension, could 
supplement to likely meet her overall income need in retirement. But I think, most 
significantly, Mrs T was unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And although 
the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income it provided was guaranteed and 
was free from investment risk. Mrs T would have course been unable to have transferred out 
of the PPF at a later date but, given what I have mentioned about her already having 
flexibility, I dont think that there was any need for her to do so. 
So I dont think that Mrs Ts concerns about the PPF were a suitable or compelling reason 
for NTM to recommend she transfer out of the DB scheme to a personal pension. 
I also think Mrs Ts desire for control over her pension benefits was overstated. Mrs T was 
not an experienced investor and I cannot see that she had an interest in or the knowledge to 
be able to manage her pension funds on her own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mrs T  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from her DB scheme. 
It seems to me that Mrs Ts stated desire for control related more to moving her pension 
away from a former employer that she didnt trust than to any resolution on her part to begin 
to manage her investment. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs T. But NTM 
wasnt there to just transact what Mrs T might have thought she wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mrs T needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs T was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs T was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. So I think NTM should have advised Mrs T to remain in 
her DB scheme (and move with it to the PPF). 
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs T would've gone ahead anyway, against NTMs 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mrs Ts concerns about the 
PPF were so great that she wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional 
adviser, whose expertise she had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for her or in her best 
interests. I say this too because Mrs T was an inexperienced investor with a likely low 
attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the majority of her retirement provision. So, if 
NTM had provided her with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she wouldve accepted that advice.In light of the above, I think NTM should compensate Mrs T for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Finally, like our Investigator, I agree that NTM should pay Mrs T compensation of £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience its unsuitable advice about her pension has caused her. 
Mrs T has said that she has suffered stress and worry about her future pension and 
retirement. Where a financial business, through its words or deeds, causes a consumer 
trouble or upset, the Financial Ombudsman Service can require it to pay compensation. Ive 
thought about what this means for Mrs T and Im satisfied that an award of £250 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of her complaint and in line with the Financial Ombudsman 
Services approach to awards of this nature in general.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs T as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs T would 
most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved with it to the PPF 
if suitable advice had been given. 
NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
NTM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mrs T and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what NTM 
based the inputs into the calculator on. 
For clarity, Mrs T has not yet retired, and Mrs T has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4 NTM should:
calculate and offer Mrs T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs T before starting the redress calculation that:
- her redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest her redress prudently is to use it to augment 
her GPP pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs T receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs T accepts NTMs offer to calculate how much of her redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs T for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of her redress augmented, 
andtake a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs T as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, NTM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mrs Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require NTM Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mrs T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
NTM Financial Services Ltd should also pay Mrs T compensation of £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience its unsuitable advice caused her.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mrs T the balance.
If Mrs T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial 
Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my 
decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman