DRN-3659878
The complaint
The estate of Mr S complains about Nationwide Building Societys actions in relation to a 
loan.
What happened
The late Mr S took out a personal loan with Nationwide Building Society in 2019 and made 
monthly payments. Last year, Mr S passed away and Mrs S notified Nationwide. Mrs S has 
explained that she was unaware that the late Mr S had taken out a loan with Nationwide. 
Nationwide referred the account to a third party debt collector Ill call P. Nationwide says it 
wrote to notify the executors that P would be in contact concerning the loan. Contact details 
were given to P. 
Mrs S has told us they started to receive contact from P in relation to the loan account. Mrs 
S has told us she found the nature of the contact from P to be harassing. 
Mrs S contacted Nationwide on several occasions to raise concerns about the late Mr S 
loan and Ps actions. Nationwide referred the issues relating to Ps actions on to that 
business to respond to. Nationwide issued a final response in November 2021 and 
apologised for not answering questions Mrs S had asked concerning the late Mr S 
statements. Nationwide also offered the estate of Mr S £75 for delays in responding to the 
complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at the estate of Mr S complaint. They thought 
Nationwide had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. On behalf 
of the estate of Mr S, Mrs S asked to appeal and said she felt that Nationwide had failed in 
its requirement to treat her fairly, in line with industry regulations. Mrs S also said Nationwide 
had failed to tell her about the loan when she notified it of the late Mr S death and failed to 
provide documents in good time. Mrs S added that her contact details were passed to P and 
that Nationwide had failed to tell her about debt in the late Mr S name. 
As the estate of Mr S asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by saying how sorry I am at the circumstances under which Mrs S brings the 
estate of Mr S complaint. I understand Mrs S was unaware of the loan in question before Mr 
S passed away. And I appreciate its come as a shock to find out there is an outstanding 
balance that Nationwide has referred to P. Id like to explain that in this decision I can only 
consider Nationwides actions and how theyve impacted the customer. In this case, thats 
the estate of Mr S. 
I understand Mrs S is acting in her role of executor when dealing with Nationwide and P as 
well as bringing this complaint. And I dont doubt how distressing its been. But I can only 
make an award to an eligible complainant and thats the estate of Mr S here. So my decision 
will focus on whether Nationwide has treated the estate of Mr S fairly or not. 
Mrs S has told us she was unaware of the loan in the late Mr S name. Nationwide has 
provided a copy of the loan agreement and systems evidence from the time the loan was 
arranged. The loan was in the late Mr S sole name and taken to refinance an existing loan. I 
understand Mrs S feels Nationwide had a duty to tell her about the loan. But it was in the late 
Mr S sole name and Nationwide didnt need to inform other parties before approving it. The 
late Mr S went on to make payments until his death. Im satisfied there was a loan in place 
that had an outstanding balance when Mr S passed away. 
Whilst I understand how distressing the situation has been for Mrs S, as a loan balance 
remained outstanding I think it was reasonable for Nationwide to make arrangements to 
contact the executor of Mr S estate and discuss options for repayment. Nationwide has 
explained that when a customer dies with an active loan it refers the account to P to act on 
its behalf. This is its normal approach. I appreciate Mrs S has found contact from P to be 
distressing, but I havent found that Nationwide acted unfairly by appointing a third party to 
contact representatives from the estate of Mr S. 
Mrs S has raised concerns that her details were passed to P who contacted her about the 
loan. But as noted, Mrs S was acting in her role of executor. So when Nationwide contacted 
her about the loan in the late Mr S name, it was doing so on that basis. I dont doubt how 
upsetting Mrs S found this, especially as shes told us she was unaware of the loan. But I 
havent found that Nationwide acted unfairly. 
Nationwide initially referred the complaint to P to deal with. Nationwide also accepts it 
shouldve made information about the late Mr S loan clearer and offered £75 for the 
inconvenience caused. As Ive said above, my focus relates to the estate of Mr S and 
inconvenience caused. In my view, the £75 offer Nationwide has made reflects the service 
provided and is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
Nationwide referred the estate of Mr S complaint about the nature of its contact and whether 
its harassed Mrs S to P to look into. P is regulated in its own right for the activity of debt 
collection. If the estate of Mr S remains concerned with Ps actions it has the option of 
referring the complaint to this service. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but as Im satisfied that Nationwide has made an offer that is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Nationwide Building Society has 
already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman