DRN-2651168
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M are unhappy with how Gladstone Brookes Limited (GB) dealt with their claims 
for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In November 2017, Mrs and Mr M instructed GB to make mis-sold PPI claims on their behalf 
against three financial businesses  Lender C, Lender L and Lender R. In January 2018 
Lender L and Lender R said they couldnt trace any PPI for Mrs or Mr M. And, because 
Lender C were part of Lender L, Lender Ls reply also covered Lender C.
GB told Mrs and Mr M what the financial businesses had said. They explained they couldnt 
continue with the claims unless Mrs and Mr M could send in some proof that PPI had been 
sold. And they asked them to send in any proof within 14-days, otherwise theyd close their 
files. GB didnt charge Mrs or Mr M for what theyd done.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set a deadline for making any new PPI claims of 29 
August 2019. Mrs and Mr M sent GB some proof that theyd been sold PPI on 28 October 
2019. GB sent this proof to Lender L and Lender R. But, because this was after the FCA 
deadline, the lenders didnt reopen the claims.
Mrs and Mr M complained that theyd asked GB to investigate any potential mis-sold PPI 
claims well before the FCA deadline, and that GB had failed to do so. So they feel theyve 
lost out on potential compensation as a result. GB didnt agree theyd done anything wrong 
by submitting the proof of PPI to the lenders when Mrs and Mr M provided this to them, but 
they did apologise for not keeping Mrs and Mr M updated about what was happening once 
this submission had been made.
Mrs and Mr M werent happy with GBs response, and they brought their complaint to the 
Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation.
Our investigator thought GB had acted reasonably. She said theyd submitted the claims, as 
instructed, and told Mrs and Mr M what the financial businesses had said. She also said GB 
told Mrs and Mr M what theyd need to do to challenge this outcome, and when theyd need 
to do this by. And they didnt charge Mrs and Mr M for their service.
The investigator also said that, although Mrs and Mr M provided proof theyd been sold PPI, 
this was almost two years after GB had made the initial claim, and two months after the FCA 
deadline. So, while it was unfortunate for Mrs and Mr M that their claim couldnt be 
resubmitted, she didnt think GB had done anything wrong. And she didnt think they needed 
to do anything more.
Mrs and Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. They said theyd sent proof theyd been sold 
PPI to GB well before the deadline and they expected them to act on this information. 
Theyve also said that Lender L and Lender R have said they didnt receive any claims from 
GB until after the FCA deadline. Theyve asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs 
and Mr M, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs and Mr M instructed GB on 27 November 2017 to look into potential PPI claims against 
Lender C, Lender L and Lender R. Ive seen GBs case notes, and these show they used 
whats called a pre-submission process. This means they sent the details Mrs and Mr M 
provided to the financial businesses using an agreed bulk submission process. And they 
received the outcomes of the pre-submission the same way.
The purpose of a pre-submission is to establish if any PPI had been sold before a formal 
claim is made. And GBs case notes show that, on 5 and 8 January 2018, they received 
responses telling them Mrs and Mr M hadnt been sold any PPI. And they sent text 
messages to Mrs and Mr M on both of these days, telling them that PPI hadnt been found.
Ive also seen that GB wrote to Mrs and Mr M on 8 January 2018, telling them that the 
lenders had said they couldnt trace any PPI. In these letters GB asked Mrs and Mr M if they 
could provide any documentary evidence that you did hold a [PPI] policy. They also asked 
Mrs and Mr M to provide this within 14-days.
Because this was a pre-submission, Id expect GB to deal with any evidence Mrs and Mr M 
submitted, regardless of whether this was received within 14-days or not. But, because a 
formal complaint hadnt been made (or was required to be made) under the pre-submission 
process, GB wouldnt be able to deal with this after the FCA deadline. As to do so would 
mean starting a new claim.
Because the FCA hadnt announced the deadline when GB wrote to Mrs and Mr M in 
January 2018, GB couldnt have made them aware of the deadline at this point. Whats 
more, because GB didnt have any active claims for Mrs and Mr M when the deadline was 
announced, I wouldnt expect GB to make them aware of it at that point either. So I cant say 
GB did anything wrong by not doing so.
And when Mrs and Mr M provided evidence theyd had PPI, Ive seen that GB tried to 
process this for them. But, because it was after the FCA deadline, and because there were 
no active claims submitted before the deadline, they werent able to do anything.
Im aware that Mrs and Mr M said they submitted the evidence theyd had PPI to GB before 
the PPI deadline. But I havent seen anything to show me GB ever received this. As GB work 
on a no win no fee basis, they only get paid on successful claims. So it wouldnt have been 
in their interests not to deal with the evidence had they received it.
Because of this, I think its more likely than not that GC didnt receive anything Mrs and Mr M 
sent before the FCA deadline. 
So, given the above, Im satisfied that GB have acted reasonably. And I wont be asking 
them to take any further action.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ms complaint about Gladstone 
Brookes Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman