DRN-4161081
The complaint
Mr C complains about Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) and their 
decision to decline the claim he made on his Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) 
insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2022, Mr C purchased a car on a finance agreement. And around a few days later, 
Mr C purchased a GAP insurance policy, underwritten by Acasta, through an intermediary 
who Ill refer to as R. Mr C purchased this policy under the belief that the policy would 
ensure he receive the total amount he paid for the car, should it be deemed a total loss.
Unfortunately, in October 2022, Mr Cs car sustained damage when he hit a kerb at high 
speed while trying to avoid a collision in front of him. Mr C says visually, he was unable to 
see any damage at the time. So, he attempted to continue driving the car after hitting the 
kerb and shortly after restarting his journey, his car broke down completely. So, he made a 
claim on his separate motor insurance policy, underwritten by a separate insurer who Ill 
refer to as D. Ds engineer assessed the car and deemed it a total loss due to the damage 
sustained in the incident. And the payment D paid Mr C failed to clear his outstanding 
finance. So, Mr D contacted R to make a claim on his GAP insurance policy.
While R administered the policy, Acasta were the underwriters. And so, Acasta are ultimately 
responsible for the decision to accept or decline a claim. So, for ease of reference, Ive 
referred to any actions taken by R or Acasta as if they were made by Acasta from this point.
Acasta assessed Mr Cs claim and declined it. They noted in Mr Cs claim form, which had 
been submitted outside of the 30-day time limit, that he confirmed his car had been 
damaged when mounting the kerb, which had caused the engine to lose oil. And due to this, 
the engine seized when hed continued to drive it after the incident. So, without any evidence 
to say the car wouldve been deemed a total loss even if Mr C hadnt driven the car after the 
incident, Acasta felt the engine seizure and so the write off of the car was a consequential 
loss. And, that this type of loss was excluded under the terms of the policy. Mr C was 
unhappy with this decision, so he raised a complaint.
Mr C felt it was unfair for Acasta to decline his GAP insurance claim when his motor 
insurance provider had accepted his claim as accidental damage. Mr C didnt agree the 
engine seizure was consequential, and he provided an engineers report he felt supported 
his opinion. So, Mr C wanted Acasta to accept his claim and pay him the remaining amount 
left on his finance agreement that hed since had to cover himself.
Acasta responded to the complaint and didnt agree. They didnt think Mr C had provided an 
engineers report that substantiated his belief that the car was deemed a total loss due to the 
damage caused when he mounted the kerb. And they felt Mr Cs car may have been 
repairable, had he not continued to drive afterwards. So, they thought they were fair to deem 
Mr Cs loss consequential and because of this, decline the claim within the terms of the 
policy he held. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr C remained 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They noted that Mr C had 
referred his claim to Acasta outside of the 30-day limit set within the policy terms. And our 
investigator didnt think hed seen evidence that satisfied him the car wouldve been deemed 
a total loss, even if it hadnt been driven after the incident. So, our investigator thought 
Acasta had declined the claim fairly.
Mr C spoke to our investigator through a representative, explaining why he didnt agree. He 
didnt think Acasta made it clear the engineers report given to him by D was sufficient to 
support his argument. And he reiterated his version of events, where he felt his onward 
travel after the incident was extremely short and so, he didnt think it was fair for Acasta to 
say the loss was consequential because of this. As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr C. I recognise he took out 
the GAP insurance policy with Acasta to protect him financially in a situation where his car 
was deemed a total loss, and the payment he received from his insurer didnt cover the 
outstanding finance on the agreement he took out when purchasing the car. As this is the 
situation he found himself in, and D did accept and pay out on his claim for accidental 
damage, I can understand why hed feel frustrated and confused as to why Acasta then 
decided to decline his claim. And I do recognise the financial impact this decision has had.
But for me to say Acasta should do something differently, such as accept the claim and pay 
Mr C the remaining amount to clear his finance, I first need to be satisfied Acasta have done 
something wrong. So, I need to be satisfied Acasta failed to act within the terms and 
conditions of the GAP insurance policy he held with them when declining the claim. Or, if I 
think they did act within these, that Acasta acted unfairly in some other way. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
I note Acasta feel the total loss of Mr Cs car was consequential to the actual incident when 
the accidental damage occurred when he mounted the kerb. I can see in the policy terms 
and conditions, under the general exclusions section, it states that Acasta will not be liable 
for any consequential loss of any nature whatsoever. So, I do think Acasta are able to 
decline a claim if they feel its for a consequential loss, in line with the policy terms.
But as Ive explained above, I need to be satisfied that Acasta were fair to make this 
determination on this occasion. Ive considered Mr Cs testimony regarding the incident, and 
the damage that followed. Mr C has accepted that the damage itself was caused when he 
mounted the kerb at high speed. And hes explained that he visually checked his car, before 
taking the decision to continue with his journey.
From Mr Cs testimony, its also accepted that after the incident, Mr C was able to restart his 
car, reverse off the kerb and continue driving down the road he was on. And it wasnt until 
hed done this that his car broke down, due to an engine seizure.
Mr C has explained a mechanic he knew looked at his car and explained that there was a crack in the sump which had allowed the oil to drain out of the engine. And as the car was 
driven with no oil in the engine, this is what caused the engine to seize.
So, on this occasion, on the balance of probability considering all of the testimony and 
evidence I have available to me, I think the engine seizure was most likely caused due to the 
car being driven after the damage has occurred. And so, I dont think I can say Acasta have 
acted unfairly when deeming the total loss of Mr Cs car to be consequential, as I think its 
reasonable to assume the engine may not have seized had the car not been driven before 
being repaired.
I appreciate Mr C doesnt agree with this, and I dont at all dispute Mr Cs testimony 
regarding the length of time the car was driven. But I do think that, as the engine was able to 
be restarted following the mounting of the kerb, that further damage was caused by driving 
the car, even though it was for a short distance.
And even if I was to find that Acasta were unfair to deem the loss to be consequential, which 
isnt the case here, I note that in internal emails, Acasta also felt the claim fell under a 
separate exclusion which states the policy does not cover any claim arising directly or 
indirectly, in whole or in part, due to any act or omission which is wilful, unlawful or negligent 
on you or the driver of the vehicles part.
In this situation, Mr C mounted the kerb at high speed. And from Mr Cs description of the 
damage found, as well as considering the fact the car sustained enough damage to be 
deemed a total loss, I do think Mr Cs claim falls under this exclusion. For Mr Cs engine to 
have completely drained of oil in the time between the incident and when he continued down 
the road, I think its reasonable for me to assume the oil leak was significant. And, had Mr C 
looked under the vehicle where Id expect the damage to be, this wouldve been noticeable. 
So, even if I did think Acasta were unfair to say the claim was consequential, Im satisfied 
they had already deemed the claim to be excluded under this term in the policy as well.
That being said, I dont think Acasta made it clear to Mr C that they had considered both 
exclusions. And I wouldve expected them to do so. But as Mr C would be left in the same 
position he is now, with a claim decline, while I note Acasta couldve done better here, I dont 
think this warrants any direction for them to do anything more at this time.
And finally, I think its also worth noting that Mr C did fail to notify Acasta of the claim within 
the time limit set out in the policy terms. Acasta have confirmed they chose to process the 
claim anyway and so, I recognise they didnt exclude the claim on this basis. But I do think 
this delay impacted the way Acasta could assess the claim, as by the time they were notified 
D had already made payment and disposed of the car. So, Acasta were unable to arrange 
any inspection of the car themselves. And this prevented them from being able to reasonably 
clarify whether the damage incurred from the incident, before Mr C restarted and drove the 
car, wouldve led to the car being deemed a total loss anyway. 
I note Mr C feels the engineers report he received from D does this. But Ive considered this 
report at length, and I dont think it provides any detail or confirmation on whether the car 
wouldve been deemed a total loss if it hadnt been driven afterwards. So, I dont think 
Acasta have acted unfairly when deciding to continue to decline the claim after considering 
this themselves.
So, because of all of the above, I dont think I can say Acasta have acted unfairly in a way 
that means they should do something more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr C Ive 
carefully considered the financial impact of this decision, as I recognise it leaves Mr C without a significant sum of money hes had to pay to clear the outstanding finance on the 
car. I also note Mr Cs concerns regarding why D has accepted the claim, but Acasta hasnt. 
And I do understand the confusion this would cause.
But D and Acasta are separate businesses who provide separate polices with differing terms 
and conditions. And so, Acasta arent obliged to accept a claim, where D has. Acasta are 
entitled to consider any claim they receive, against their own policy terms and conditions. 
And I think theyve done so fairly on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Acasta European 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman