DRN-3785813
The complaint
Mr N complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) didnt do enough to protect him 
from the loss of debit card payments to an investment scam. 
What happened
Mr N has explained that in 2016 and 2017, he made the following payments using his Co-op 
debit card to a merchant going by the name of TorOption, which he later realised was an 
investment scam. 
No. Date Amount (£) 
1 19 September 2016 5,000 
2 26 September 2016 5,000 
3 26 September 2016 5,000 
4 27 September 2016 5,000 
5 29 September 2016 10,000 
6 04 October 2016 2,500 
7 06 October 2016 3,000 
8 01 November 2016 10,000 
9 03 November 2016 7,985.45 
10 03 November 2016 8,018.88 
11 04 November 2016 8,007.73 
12 07 November 2016 10,000 
13 07 November 2016 10,000 
14 08 November 2016 8,000 
15 08 November 2016 10,000 
16 14 November 2016 5,016.49 
17 14 November 2016 5,016.49 
18 02 December 2016 5,021.66 
19 05 December 2016 4,995.12 
20 30 December 2016 10,000 
21 03 January 2017 10,060.46 
22 03 January 2017 10,062.09 
Total 157,684.37 
Mr N received credits from TorOption in November and December 2016 totalling £13,000. 
He also incurred some non-Sterling transaction fees attached to the above payments which, 
for the sake of simplicity, I havent listed above. 
 
Mr N got in touch with Co-op to report hed been scammed. When Co-op said they wouldnt 
reimburse his losses, Mr N referred his complaint about Co-op to this service. As our 
investigator (who didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld) was unable to resolve the 
matter informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
I sent Mr N and Co-op my provisional decision on 18 October 2022, explaining what I was 
minded to conclude and why. 
Mr N replied to my provisional decision on 26 October 2022 and, in summary: asked me to 
reconsider including payments 8 to 10 in the compensation calculation; explained that he 
didnt think the credits totalling £13,000 ought to be deducted from the compensation 
calculation because, he said, these credits related to payments he made before payment 11; 
and he said he thought it would fairer for the 50% blameworthiness deduction to be applied 
to the total payments he made, rather than the £84,504.96 explained in my provisional 
decision.
Co-op replied to my provisional decision on 8 November 2022 with some queries which I 
subsequently responded to. Co-op subsequently offered to settle the base recommendation 
amount of £42,252.48. But it explained it thought compensatory interest calculated at 3% 
simple per year was fairer than 8% simple per year. 
Our investigator subsequently let Mr N know that I was minded to find compensatory interest 
calculated at 3% simple per year (rather than 8%) fair and reasonable. Mr N replied to 
explain why he disagreed. 
Im now ready to explain my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as explained in my provisional decision 
and as subsequently explained to the parties. The only difference is that I have decided 
interest at 3% simple per year (rather than 8%) is fair and reasonable. Ill explain my reasons 
again, with further comment where appropriate.
Recovery 
 
As these were debit card payments, after the payments were made, the only possible 
avenue for recovery of the payments was through the chargeback scheme. 
 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. Our role in such 
cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decisions or scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Co-op) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder. 
 
I agree with what the investigator said about this. Before 14 October 2017, Visas rules didnt 
yet specifically cover investment trading  Co-op at this time could only have successfully 
presented a chargeback claim if TorOption had promised in writing Mr N returns that werent 
received. Im aware most scam merchants conduct most of their interactions over the phone 
and I think thats what happened here. Mr N hasnt provided persuasive evidence showing 
otherwise. So I dont think Mr N would have had a valid chargeback. The change in Visas 
rules on 14 October 2017 only applied to transactions made on or after that date  so a later 
retrospective chargeback wouldnt have succeeded either.  Prevention
Having decided the above, I can only uphold this complaint if I think Co-op reasonably ought 
to have prevented some or all of Mr Ns payments to TorOption in the first place  therefore 
preventing his loss or part of it. 
 
Its common ground that Mr N authorised the scam payments in question here. He was 
tricked by the scammers into instructing Co-op to make the payments. I accept these were 
authorised payments even though Mr N was tricked. So although he didnt intend the 
payments to go to scammers, Mr N is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider  
Co-op should fairly and reasonably: 
 
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams; 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
 
My fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good 
industry practice at the time in many previous decisions published on our website. 
 
Bearing this in mind, here I need to decide whether Co-op acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr N when it processed his payments to TorOption. 
 
The prior activity of Mr Ns account with Co-op is an important consideration when 
considering whether these payments were sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for Mr Ns 
account such that Co-op should have paused the payments, pending further enquiry, before 
allowing them through.  
 
From the account statements Ive seen prior to Mr Ns payments to TorOption, I can see that 
his spending was generally unremarkable. Although in July 2016 he did make three 
payments to Hargreaves Lansdown totalling £22,000, in tranches £3,500, £3,500 and 
£15,000 respectively and all on the same day. These were payments to a legitimate FCA 
regulated business, which Mr N has said he was happy with. Mr N argues that these 
payments to Hargreaves Lansdown were unusual and uncharacteristic for his account. But 
even so, theyre not the subject of this complaint, and Mr N has said he was happy with 
them. So by the time of Mr Ns first payment to TorOption in September 2016, Im satisfied it 
wouldnt have been unreasonable for Co-op to take them into account as part of assessing 
whether subsequent payment instructions from Mr N did or did not reasonably warrant 
intervention before processing them. With this said, Ill address the specific payments Mr N 
made to TorOption and whether I think I can reasonably say Co-op ought reasonably to have 
been obliged to intervene before processing them.  
 Payments 1 to 5  
 
Mr Ns first four payments were each for £5,000 and were spread over nine days. Bearing in 
mind what Ive said about the payments to Hargreaves Lansdown earlier in the year, Im not 
satisfied these payments were sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for Mr Ns account to 
say Co-op ought to have been obliged to have intervened. 
 
Payment 5 was for £10,000 which, again bearing in mind Mr Ns previous account activity, 
wasnt, by itself, sufficiently uncharacteristic or unusual enough to reasonably say Co-op 
ought to have been obliged to have intervened. And even taking payment 5 with payments 1 
to 4 together  these totalled £30,000, spent over 11 days. Im not sufficiently persuaded 
these ought to have looked so unusual or uncharacteristic to Co-op, bearing in mind Mr N 
had make payments totalling £22,000 in just one day previously (to Hargreaves Lansdown) 
to say Co-op ought to have been obliged to intervene before processing them. 
 
Payments 6 and 7 
 
These were smaller payments, sent six and seven days after the payment 5. Since Mr N 
hadnt, by then, raised any concerns about payments 1 to 5 (and bearing in mind what Ive 
said about payments 1 to 5 above), Im not sufficiently satisfied I can reasonably say these 
ought to have yet triggered Co-op either.   
 
Payments 8 to 10 
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr N asked that I reconsider these payments. 
Hes pointed towards the fact that he had, by the time he instructed payment 8, made 
payments totalling £35,500 to TorOption; that payments 8 to 10 were for large amounts; 
payments 9 and 10 were international payments; and he still doesnt see how the previous 
payments he made to Hargreaves Lansdown ought to affect this, as they were a regulated 
and well-regarded UK company. But Ive considered this carefully and I am still not 
persuaded its reasonable to say Co-ops systems reasonably ought to have been triggered 
quite yet. As explained in my provisional decision, payment 8 followed an almost one-month 
break since payment 7. So I dont think it would have been unreasonable for Co-op to take 
account of both the Hargreaves Lansdown payments (for reasons already explained) and 
payments 1 to 7 to TorOption (which Mr N hadnt yet raised any concerns about) in 
assessing whether these payment instructions warranted intervention. So I dont think, on 
this basis, payments 8 to 10 would reasonably have stood out sufficiently to warrant 
intervention. I appreciate payments 9 and 10 appear to have been international payments, 
but I still dont think this would have reasonably triggered Co-ops systems, bearing in mind 
the prior activity. 
Payment 11
However, I think that at the point of Mr Ns instruction for payment 11, things ought to have 
looked unusual to Co-op. This was a lot of money to be sending to one merchant. And with 
payment instruction 11  which was an international payment  Mr N was asking to increase 
his total payments, in this latest batch of payments to TorOption, from around £26,000 to 
over £34,000. Im satisfied, in order to meet its obligations Ive summarised above, that at 
this point Co-op reasonably ought to have spoken to Mr N, before allowing the payment 
through, to check everything was in order, to protect him against the risk of financial harm. 
 What would have happened if Co-op had intervened? 
 
Where I cant be certain about something like this, I need to make my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, based on what I think most likely would have 
happened, bearing in mind all the available evidence. 
 
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Co-op reasonably ought to have spoken to Mr N 
before processing his instruction for payment 11, to check everything was in order before it 
processed the payment, to protect him from the possibility of financial harm.  
 
During such a conversation with Mr N, I would reasonably expect Co-op to have asked Mr N 
who the payment was for, what it was for, and for the basic surrounding context, and to have 
then proceeded appropriately from there, with the intention to disturb or unearth a potential 
fraud or scam. I have no reason to believe Mr N wouldnt have been open with Co-op. Co-op 
reasonably ought to, therefore, have quickly learned from its conversation with Mr N the 
basic background to the payment instruction  that Mr N was sending money for a 
binary-options/forex type investment with TorOption.  
 
As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicated  in its consultation paper 
entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting 
victims  that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types 
of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Further, at the time of Mr Ns 
payments, there was information in the public domain  which a bank like Co-op ought to 
have known even if a lay consumer ought not  about the very high risks associated with 
binary options trading, including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 
2016 warning; and the European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning). 
Such that I think at the time of Mr Ns payments, Co-op reasonably ought to have known 
that, at the time (before January 2018), and reflecting the risky nature of such products, 
binary-options traders operating in the UK were required to be regulated by the Gambling 
Commission.
From what I can see, TorOption was not regulated by the Gambling Commission. Nor was it 
regulated in any other jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably aware. This indicates it was 
operating illegally, probably with dishonest intentions  legitimate firms tend to comply with 
regulatory requirements. 
The International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) is an international body 
that brings together the worlds securities regulators. The FCA also has its own warning list in 
place to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially 
being fraudulent. Upon checking these, I cannot see they contained any information about 
TorOption until a warning was first published on 10 May 2017 (after Mr Ns payments). But 
here I dont think this changes things. As Ive said, Co-op reasonably ought to have been 
aware TorOption was required to be regulated by the Gambling Commission. TorOption 
wasnt regulated by the Gambling Commission. And I think in circumstances like this, Co-op 
really ought to have given Mr N a warning that there was a significant risk he was being 
scammed. 
It's possible that Mr N would have wanted to proceed with payment 11 (and subsequent 
payments) regardless. After all, I understand that hes said that he worked at an international 
bank looking after contracts between suppliers and the bank, not in foreign exchange or 
anything like that, but that he obviously had some knowledge (albeit no experience) of 
investments like this. I also note that Mr N had already invested with Hargreaves Lansdown 
in funds and shares and he specifically choose to invest with TorOption for a higher 
risk/reward profile. However, I understand this was Mr Ns pension money, and hed already invested a significant amount of this with TorOption (prior to payment 11) and was 
proposing to increase this. And I think its reasonable to suppose that the conversation 
Co-op ought to have had with him most likely would have put enough doubt in his mind so as 
to result in further caution on his behalf. He could likely have had it confirmed to him from a 
quick call to the Gambling Commission that TorOption was required to be regulated by the 
Gambling Commission but wasnt; that there had been an increase in fraud and scams in 
this area of investment; and the www.toroption website at the time showed TorOption 
based in Scotland which didnt overtly square with some of the payments being international. 
Overall, therefore, I think its most likely that if Co-op had done what Ive explained it 
reasonably ought to have done, Mr N ultimately wouldnt have proceeded with payment 11, 
nor indeed payments 12 to 22.
Putting things right
Ive explained why I dont think Mr N would have made and lost payments 11 to 22 (which 
total £96,180.04) if Co-op had done what it reasonably ought to have done. Mr N was also 
charged non-Sterling transactional fees totalling £1,324.92 in relation to these payments, 
charges he wouldnt have occurred if he hadnt made payments 11 to 22 to TorOption. 
However, I note that Mr N received credits back from TorOption totalling £13,000 in 
November and December 2016. In his response to my provisional decision, Mr N has argued 
that these credits related to payments 7 and 8, and not therefore the payments I think ought 
to have been prevented by Co-op, and so he doesnt think these should be deducted from 
any compensation award here. However, the credits totalling £13,000 were received on 23 
November 2016 and 14 December 2016. Im not persuaded, if Mr N hadnt made payments 
11 to 22 (and payment 11 was on 4 November 2016), that it is most likely Mr N would have 
received these credits from TorOption bearing in mind how it appears from Mr Ns 
submissions and the evidence overall it was in the business of operating. So I remain of the 
opinion that its reasonable to assume he wouldnt have received these credits back if he 
hadnt made payments 11 to 22  so these should be deducted from Mr Ns loss. The total 
loss in this regard is therefore £84,504.96 (that is £96,180.04 plus £1,324.92 less £13,000).
 
I have thought about whether Mr N should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. And I think its fair to say Mr N really wasnt as careful with his payments as he 
reasonably ought to have been. This was an incredibly large amount of money to invest 
without thorough due diligence. And I think Mr N reasonably ought to have been aware of 
some risk of financial harm but he proceeded anyway. Im satisfied in circumstances like 
this, Mr N should bear 50% blameworthiness. I acknowledge Mr Ns points on this in 
response to my provisional decision. But Im satisfied the 50% blameworthiness should 
apply to the loss of £84,504.96 identified above (and not to the overall amount Mr N lost, 
when, for the reasons Ive explained, its only the £84,504.96 I would reasonably expect 
Co-op to have prevented). 
Co-op should therefore pay Mr N £42,252.48 (which is 50% of £84,504.96). I understand 
from Mr Ns submissions that Co-op may indeed have already paid this amount to Mr N 
(between the date of my provisional decision and the date of this final decision), and if this is 
the case it obviously doesnt need to pay it twice.
In addition, Co-op should pay Mr N interest on this amount, calculated at 3% simple per 
year, from the date of the loss to the date of settlement. As the parties are aware, in my 
provisional decision I suggested a rate of 8% (and not 3%). However, in its response to my 
provisional decision, Co-op argued that a rate of 3% would be fairer. And in the particular 
circumstances of this case Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable. I say this because Mr N, 
by his own submissions, was looking to take a higher risk with the money than he had done 
through his Hargreaves Lansdown funds and shares investment(s). So I think its fair to say if Mr N hadnt lost this money to the scam, its most likely that he would still have sought to 
invest it in something relatively high risk. Mr N has said this most likely would have resulted 
in a better return than 3%. But I dont think thats clear. Its possible that Mr N might not have 
made any money at all, or indeed lost money on such an investment. So bearing this in 
mind, Im satisfied that 3% is fair and reasonable in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part, and I direct 
The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay Mr N £42,252.48, plus interest on this amount calculated 
at 3% simple per year, from the date of the loss to the date of settlement. If Co-op deducts 
tax from this interest, it should provide Mr N with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman