DRN-3150451
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a packaged bank 
account, called a Select account. 
Lloyds charged Ms M a monthly fee for the Select account and provided several potential 
benefits in return. She thinks it should refund her the fees she paid. 
What happened
Ms M has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has told us that she first opened 
one of its fee-free accounts in 1999 and that it sold her the Select account in October 2003. 
I understand that Ms M kept the Select account until at least  the early part of 2021, 
although Im not sure if she still has it.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Ms Ms complaint and didnt think that 
Lloyds had mis-sold her the Select account. Ms M didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her case. So, it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in Ms Ms case. Ive looked into 
everything that Ms M and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Ms M has told us that Lloyds sold her the Select account over the counter in one of its 
branches and told her that buying it would allow her to get a  preferential  loan (and),  
overdraft  rate and improve  (her) overall  credit  score . Lloyds  has said that its records  
show  that it sold the Select account to Ms M over the internet.
Although I cant be certain what happened back in 2003, I think that Lloyds records are 
probably reliable. I accept that Ms M may well have discussed the Select account with 
a member of Lloyds counter staff in one of its branches, (and I will return to that discussion 
later) but Im satisfied that Lloyds sold it to her online. When it did so, I would have 
expected it to give Ms M a choice and tell her about the Select accounts costs and 
benefits fairly and clearly. A sale such as this is often called a non-advised or information-
only sale as the bank doesnt give the consumer any personal advice. 
 
At the time Lloyds sold the Select account to Ms M, she had held a fee-free account for 
several years and I havent seen anything to make me think it told her told her she couldnt 
keep that account. So, so Im satisfied Lloyds gave her a choice.
I cant tell exactly what online screens of information Ms M saw when she bought the 
Select account, as Lloyds may well have changed them over the years which have passed, 
but I think its highly likely they told her about the cost of the Select account and about its 
benefits, as Lloyds software generally worked in that way. Im satisfied that Lloyds met its 
obligations to Ms M through its online software. 
In 2003, Lloyds usually charged customers with Select accounts lower interest rates on 
overdrafts and some types of loan than it applied to customers with fee-free accounts. 
Such lower rates are often known as preferential, so I think it would have been 
reasonable for Lloyds to mention such benefits to Ms M during the over-the-counter 
discussion. However, the type of bank account a customer holds rarely affects his or her 
credit rating and it would not have been reasonable Lloyds to tell Ms M the opposite.
There are no notes or records from the time of the over-the-counter discussion and I cant 
tell for sure what Lloyds said, or didnt say, to Ms M. But I doubt it would have told her that 
buying the Select account would lead to a better credit rating, as this had no basis in its 
approach to lending to her (it had already arranged an overdraft for her while she had a 
fee-free account) and usual banking practices. And Im certainly satisfied that Lloyds 
online software made no such claim. I dont think Lloyds misled Ms M about her credit 
rating, ether online or during the over-the-counter discussion. 
In 2003, the other benefits of the Select account included use of a car breakdown service 
and insurance for mobile phones. Ms M has told us that she didnt need these benefits as 
her husband had a separate packaged account with similar benefits and these covered 
her. I accept this, but as I dont think Lloyds advised her to buy the Select account, it was 
under no obligation to check for such duplicate cover. Lloyds records also show that Ms M 
registered several mobile phones for the insurance cover and called out the car 
breakdown service, so she may have had some need for these benefits. 
Ms M has also mentioned that her husbands account provided travel insurance, but as 
this was not a feature of the Select account in 2003, there was no duplication.
So, in summary, although I cant tell if Lloyds got everything right for Ms M, Im satisfied 
that it told her about the costs and benefits of the Select account and gave her a choice. 
And I doubt it misled her about credit ratings. I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the Select 
account to Ms M. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Ms Ms complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman