DRN-3719861
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire agreement with Motability 
Operations Limited (MO) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr R was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with MO. He paid 
an advance rental of £3,749 and the agreement was for 39 four-weekly hire payments of Mr 
Ms Motability allowance.
In May 2021, Mr R had issues with the lane assist function on the car, and the car kept 
emergency braking when it drifted over a white line on the road. The car was returned to the 
dealership, and the lane assist software was reinstalled. The dealership said this had fixed 
the issue, but Mr R didnt agree. MO offered Mr R the choice to either keep the car or cancel 
the agreement with a full refund of the advance rental. Mr R said he wanted to keep the car 
and it was taken to a different dealership for a second opinion.
On 9 June 2021, while the car was with the second dealership, Mr R received a collision 
notification on his phone. But the second dealership have denied the car was in any form of 
accident while it was in their possession. When the car was returned to Mr R, he raised 
issues relating to the braking system, the boot closure mechanism, and a noise when the car 
was driven at low speed. And he believed these were caused by the accident.
The car was inspected, and damage was found. And this was repaired through an insurance 
claim. However, Mr R wasnt happy with the repairs, as he believes that not all of the 
damaged parts were repaired. And he complained to MO about this.
MO said that the car had been checked and tested and was found to be ok before it was 
returned to Mr R. However, they offered an independent inspection of the car, which Mr R 
refused as he didnt think that the checks that would be carried out would be of a satisfactory 
level. MO also offered Mr R the option of ending the agreement early, with a pro-rata refund 
of the advance payment. Mr R also refused this offer, as it wouldnt allow him to obtain a 
like-for-like replacement car. So, he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said she was satisfied that the faults with the lane assist were fixed by the 
software update; and she thought the offer made by MO was fair and reasonable. So, she 
didnt think they needed to do anything more. The investigator also said that Mr Rs 
complaints about the dealerships and the insurer were separate to his complaint about MO. 
So, theyd need to be dealt with separately.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. He said that MO wouldnt let him use a garage of his 
choice to do any repairs, which meant that they can cover up any damage to the car by 
asking for safety inspections. He also said that the car was now so bad its not safe to other 
road users and needs £15,000 worth of repairs. And that a national breakdown company 
will confirm that the car isnt safe to drive.
Mr R also raised a number of comments relating to the service hed been provided with by 
the dealerships, including them carrying out unauthorised repairs on the car. 
Because Mr R didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr R was supplied with a car under a hire 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the collision notification Mr R received on 9 June 2021 at 4:10pm. This 
says that a collision was detected an hour ago, in an unknown area, and that there had been 
a slight impact. Ive also seen a copy of a report, dated 24 August 2021, detailing the 
damage done to the car. This says that the car had suffered a medium impact and there was 
damage to the left hand front, centre front, and right hand front of the car. This report also 
stated the work that was required to repair the car.
Based on this, Im satisfied the car was damaged in an accident that most likely took place 
on 9 June 2021. And the repairs to the car were done by the insurance company. Its clear 
from what Ive seen that most of Mr Rs current dissatisfaction comes from these repairs, 
which he doesnt think were done correctly. And he believes the car is dangerous to drive as 
a result. Mr R is also dissatisfied with the actions of the manufacturers main dealers, who he 
says were responsible for the accident (which they deny) and for how theyve treated him 
during the entire process.
However, while I understand Mr Rs depth of feeling about this, and how its affected him, 
these are issues with the insurance company and the dealerships. And theyre not issues 
with MO, who provided the hire agreement. As such, even though MO have been in contact 
with the insurance company and the dealerships throughout, I cant hold them responsible 
for the actions of these third-party companies (even though the dealerships were approved 
partners of the Motability Scheme).
Given this, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr R, my decision will 
not address the causes of the accident, whose fault it was, the damage done to the car 
following this accident, or whats happened as a result. If he hasnt already done so, Mr R 
needs to raise these issues with the insurance company and/or dealerships direct. Instead, 
my decision will only address what MO did and what their responsibilities were.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, MO 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history. The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless MO can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr R to show it was present when the car 
was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr R took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask MO to put this right.
Its not disputed there was an initial problem with the lane assist function. The car went into a 
dealership, who updated the software, which they say fixed the issue. And a different 
dealership provided a second opinion, also saying the issue was fixed. Once the car was 
returned to Mr R, after the second opinion, he didnt complain that the lane assist was still 
not working. Given this, Im satisfied that the issue was repaired. As such, under the CRA, 
MO arent required to do anything more, and Mr R doesnt have the right to reject the car.
Mr R is also unhappy with how MO dealt with matters once the car had been involved in an 
accident. Ive seen the car was taken in for repair on 30 August 2021 and wasnt returned to 
Mr R until 14 January 2022. While the delays in the car being repaired, and the quality of the 
repairs themselves, are something Mr R will need to raise with the insurance company; Ive 
seen that MO provided him with a hire car (as a courtesy car) during this period. And Im 
satisfied this was reasonable, as it kept Mr R mobile.
As Mr R wasnt happy with the quality of the repairs, he didnt want to accept the car back 
from the dealership. However, MO explained that this would breach the terms of the hire 
agreement, which required Mr R to keep the car under his control. And they explained that 
his failure to accept the car back could result in the car being repossessed. They also 
explained that, if Mr R remained dissatisfied with the repairs on the car, then he should 
contact the insurance company. Additionally, MO advised Mr R that the terms of the 
agreement didnt allow any work (including repairs and inspections) to take place on a lease 
car, unless it was done by an accredited scheme partner (which the dealerships Mr R had 
been dealing with were).
Its clear that Mr R disputed the repairs thatd been done, and that he wanted to arrange for 
the car to be repaired himself. As such, I accept that he would find any attempts for him to 
accept the car back both unwanted and unacceptable. However, MO were advising him of 
the terms of the agreement hed signed, and what could happen if he breached these terms. 
These are factual statements and, although Mr R may not have wished to be advised of this, 
it doesnt mean that hes been threatened. And Im satisfied that MO acted reasonably in 
reminding Mr R of his obligations.
As Mr R was unhappy with the car, given the circumstances detailed above, MO also gave 
him the option to cancel the agreement, with a full refund of the advance rental hed paid. Im 
aware that Mr R wanted MO to replace the car with a like-for-like vehicle, but they explained 
that the manufacturer was no longer part of the Motability Scheme. Which meant that it 
wasnt possible to give him another car of the same make. As MO werent responsible for 
either the damage to the car, or for any repairs thatd taken place, Im satisfied that the offer 
MO made was more than reasonable in the circumstances.Mr R was also unhappy that the rear camera broke in February 2022, that MO had accused 
him of unacceptable conduct at the dealerships, and that the lane assist issue had returned. 
In an email dated 12 June 2022 he said the most serious is the problems with the lane 
assist as this was working perfectly after getting the car back  if it hadn't been working 
correctly I would have complained  I believe the car has been tampered with, the boot a 
deliberate act to stop it working, and the lane assist has been deliberately tampered with 
making the car dangerous to drive. He also said that he believes the dealerships have 
banded together to try and have [MO] take the car from me.
The rear camera has stopped working more than six months after the car was supplied to Mr 
R, so the CRA implies its for him to show that the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply. He also believes that the car has been deliberately sabotaged to make it 
dangerous to drive. Ive seen that MO have indicated theyd be agreeable to the car being 
inspected. And I think that, in the circumstances, Mr R obtaining an independent inspection 
would be prudent. This would be able to confirm if there are any ongoing issues with the car, 
and (in the case of the rear camera) if this is due to a fault that was present or developing at 
the time of supply. However, without any evidence to support Mr Rs assertations, Im unable 
to comment further on this matter.
Finally, Ive not seen that MO have accused Mr R of anything. What they have done is 
advised him of the accusations that had been made by the dealerships, by way of explaining 
why some dealerships now refuse to continue to deal with him. I think providing this 
explanation was reasonable, and I dont think it means that MO were supporting any 
accusations that had been made.
In conclusion, given all the above, Im satisfied that MO have acted reasonably when dealing 
with the issues that were within their responsibilities to do so. And I wont be directing them 
to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Motability Operations 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman