DRN-1253045
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that they were mis-sold a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC), trading then as Midland Bank.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with HSBC in 1999. At the same time, they were sold a 
PPI policy to help cover their mortgage repayments if one of them was unable to work due to 
an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
HSBC had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that they had a choice in taking the policy and 
that it wasnt a condition of the mortgage. The policy was sold during a meeting. HSBC has 
provided a copy of the application form for the PPI policy which Mr and Mrs B both signed at 
the time they were applying for their mortgage. And I can see that at the top of this form 
there are Yes and No boxes next to the question Do you want to arrange cover?. The 
Yes box has been ticked on the form and other details, including the amount of cover 
required, have also been entered. Mr and Mrs B have also completed a direct debit mandate 
for collection of the monthly PPI premiums. So I think that HSBC did make it clear that the 
PPI policy was optional on the paperwork they were given. 
Mr and Mrs B say that the mortgage advisor they spoke to at the time told them that the PPI 
was a condition of them getting their mortgage. And I accept that its possible that the 
advisor wrongly mis-led them in this way. But I need to bear in mind that this sale took place 
over twenty years ago and memories of what was said in such discussions do tend to fade 
with time. So I dont think that it would be fair for me to conclude that this is what happened 
based only on what Mr and Mrs B think they recall now. On balance, I think its more likely 
that Mr and Mrs B accepted the advisors advice that the policy was suitable for them and 
chose to take it, knowing they could choose not to do so. But I can understand why they 
might not remember this now.
As HSBC advised Mr and Mrs B to take the policy, it needed to make sure that it was 
suitable for them. I dont know how it did this, but from what I know about their 
circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been. I say this 
because:Mr and Mrs B seem to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. Mrs B was self-employed at the time but, looking at 
the terms and conditions of the policy, I dont think this would have made it 
particularly difficult for her to make a claim.
 
Mr B says he was eligible for statutory sick pay and they could also have relied on 
their relatives for financial support in need. But this policy would have paid out in 
addition to these other means and, potentially, for longer than they would have 
lasted. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment  where ones home is 
potentially at risk if repayments cant be met. So I still think they would have valued 
the extra security that the policy gave them.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, it could have been cancelled if it no longer met their 
needs.
 
HSBC also needed to give Mr and Mrs B enough information for them to decide if they 
wanted it. I think its possible that the information HSBC gave them could have been better 
than it was. But for much the same reasons that I didnt think the policy was unsuitable for 
them, I dont think that better information would have changed their mind about taking it. I 
think theyd still have thought the policy gave them useful benefits at an affordable price.
So I dont think that Mr and Mrs B have lost out by anything that HSBC may have done 
wrong when it sold them this PPI policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman