DRN-2443156
The complaint
 Mrs A and Mr D have complained about the amount offered by AXA Insurance UK plc 
(Axa) to settle the claim they made on their property insurance policy when their home 
was damaged by an escape of water.
 
What happened
Mrs A and Mr D live in the Channel Islands. In July 2018, they noticed a damp patch on the 
wall between their bedroom and their en-suite. And the door between the two rooms had 
swollen. They called a tradesman. He discovered a leak. But he couldnt say where the leak 
was coming from.
Mrs A and Mr D contacted their broker, who told them theyd need to contact Axa direct  
which they did. Axa advised they could go ahead with trace and access work to find and 
stop the leak. Because the property is in the Channel Islands, Axa didnt appoint loss 
adjusters, but chose to deal with the claim remotely, via email, phone and video conference.
A plumber attended the property to do the trace and access work. He found water had been 
dripping from a second en-suite, which adjoined the first, into a void beneath the floor. And 
water was seeping into the walls.
Mrs A and Mr D say the authority Axa had given them to trace and access extended to 
stripping out the rooms, if it was necessary to find and stop the leak. And it was necessary, 
because the pipework in both en-suites was hidden in the walls and under the floors, both 
of which were fully tiled.
Mrs A took photos as the stripping out was done. Once it was finished, and the rooms had 
been dried out, she forwarded the photos and confirmation of the work done to Axa. Axa 
arranged a video conference.
During the video conference, Axa expressed concern about the stripping out, and about the 
fact that Mrs A and Mr D had disposed of the sanitary ware  so Axa couldnt inspect it. At 
this point, Axa decided to appoint a loss adjuster and to investigate the claim in more depth. 
Mrs A and Mr D had got quotes for the repairs, which Axa felt were excessive.
Following their investigations, Axa offered Mrs A and Mr D a settlement of £11,829.85. Mrs 
A and Mr D thought about the offer and took advice. And they instructed their own surveyor 
to assess the work. He calculated the costs of repair at £25,163.82.
Mrs A and Mr D sent their surveyors report to Axa and asked them to reconsider their offer. 
But Axa said they werent persuaded to offer a higher settlement.
Mrs A and Mr D complained to Axa. Axa rejected their complaint. 
Axa said theyd not had a chance to inspect the damage before Mrs A and Mr D allowed 
the bathrooms to be stripped out. They said their representative had told Mrs A and Mr D 
that minimal invasive investigation should be done. And they said Mrs A and Mr D hadnt 
complied with the policys claim conditions, because theyd disposed of items removed 
from the bathroom. But they did say theyd identified some delays in handling the claim  
for which they paid Mrs A and Mr D £100.
Mrs A and Mr D werent satisfied with Axas response, so they brought their complaint to 
us. Our investigator looked into it and at first concluded that Axa hadnt clearly explained 
the trace and access process to them. So she thought Axa should pay them the amount 
their surveyor said the repairs would have cost. And she said that Axa should pay an 
extra £50 for the trouble and upset theyd caused Mrs A and Mr D.
But she changed her view after Axa responded and pointed out that Mrs A and Mr D 
hadnt followed their instructions to take photos before the trace and access work began. 
This meant Axa didnt have any information about the state of the bathrooms before they 
were stripped out. And she was persuaded that they shouldnt have disposed of items 
thatd been removed. So she concluded that the settlement offered by Axa was fair. But 
she still thought they should pay Mrs A and Mr D the additional £50, as shed stated in her 
first view.
I didnt agree with our investigators view.  So I made a provisional decision saying I 
intended to uphold Mrs As and Mr Ds complaint.  I said I didnt think Axa has explained to 
Mrs A and Mr D that their contractors investigation work should be minimally invasive  so it 
wasnt reasonable to say after the event that their contractor had done too much damage.
At that time, Id not heard and call recordings.  So I couldnt be sure whether or not Axa had 
authorised stripping out works.  But from all Id seen I was satisfied that Mrs A and Mr D had 
wanted to do things correctly  so on balance I didnt think theyd have allowed their 
contractor to strip out unless they believed Axa had approved that.
Axa reduced what they offered to settle the claim because Mrs A didnt take photographs of 
the bathrooms before they were stripped out.  But I didnt think Axa had explained how 
important this was to how theyd deal with the claim  so I didnt think it was reasonable for 
Axa to rely on this.
And Axa said theyd limited the claim because theyd not had a chance to inspect the 
sanitary ware before it was disposed of.  But, because Mrs A and Mr D live in the Channel 
Islands, Axa were trying to avoid having to send someone there to do a physical inspection.  
Furthermore, Mrs A and Mr D didnt want to claim for the sanitary ware.  So I didnt think it 
was reasonable to reject the claim for that. 
Mrs A and Mr D responded to my provisional decision, saying they had in fact sent photos of 
one of the bathrooms before it was stripped out.  And they repeated that Axa had never told 
them to keep the sanitary ware  but had said they werent going to send someone to the 
Channel Islands.
Axa responded to my provisional decision by sending call recordings which they said were 
conversations their advisers had with Mrs A about trace and access work.  And they referred 
to the policy conditions which they said include a clause saying policyholders shouldnt 
dispose of sanitary ware.  But they said this would also relate to tiling  which had been 
claimed for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mrs As and Mr Ds complaint.  Ill explain why.Insurers have an obligation to deal with claims promptly and fairly, in line with the policy 
conditions.  Ive considered whether Axa did that in this case.
Mrs A and Mr D had trace and access cover  meaning that Axa would cover not only the 
damage caused by an escape of water, but also the cost of finding the source of the leak.  
The relevant policy terms says:
We will pay up to £15,000 for any one claim for necessary and reasonable costs that you 
incur in finding the source of damage to the home caused by:
1. escape of water.
Im satisfied from this that trace and access work is covered.
But Im not satisfied that Axa explained to Mrs A and Mr D that the costs of that work had to 
be necessary and reasonable  or how theyd decide that.
Ive listened carefully to the call recordings Axa sent in response to my provisional decision.  
One is the first call Mrs A made to notify Axa of the claim.  Axas adviser explained what 
trace and access meant.  And he told Mrs A:
get him [the plumber] out to the propertyask him to do what he thinks is going to be 
necessary to get that leak fixedso if he needs to start pulling out walls, start pulling out 
floors, things like that, you are absolutely fine to go ahead and do that. 
I think that statements completely clear.  So I dont think its reasonable for Axa to say they 
hadnt authorised stripping out  so they wouldnt pay the claim.
In the same call, I heard Mrs A ask whether she should take photos of the work as it was 
being done.  The adviser told her it would be worthwhile doing that throughout the process  
and beforehand, so Axa could see what the en-suites looked like before the work was 
started.
Mrs A and Mr D have said that they did this  and Axa are wrong to say they didnt have any 
pictures of the rooms taken before work began.  And they sent us an email which they sent, 
with the photos, to the investigators eventually appointed by Axa.  
So I dont think Axa were right to say they didnt have photos.  But, even if they were, I said 
in my provisional decision that Axa didnt make it clear to Mrs A and Mr D that it was crucial 
they provide photographs.  And now I have the call recording I can hear that Axa said it 
would be worthwhile.  But I dont think thats the same as saying not taking any photos 
would result in a limitation of the claim.  So Im not changing this part of my provisional 
decision.
Axa had also limited the claim because Mrs A and Mr D had disposed of the sanitary ware 
which had been removed.  I said in my provisional decision that it was unreasonable for Axa 
to apply the policy term which says:
What you must not do
.
Dispose of damaged items as we may need to see them.
because Mrs A and Mr D hadnt claimed for sanitary ware.  In their response to my decision, 
Axa accepted this. But they said the same term should apply to tiling  which had been 
claimed for.Ive thought very carefully about this point.  This is a common term in household policies.  Its 
there to give insurers the chance to see if damaged items can be repaired and re-installed, 
rather than just replacing them.  
I think its extremely unlikely that tiles could be reused, because of the difficulty of removing 
them from a wall or floor without damaging them.  So the most likely outcome would have 
been the tiles needed replacing, whether or not Axa inspected them.
The evidence Ive seen in this case persuades me that Mrs A and Mr D didnt want to do 
anything to jeopardise their claim.  They contacted Axa before doing anything and Mrs A 
asked a number of questions about how they should deal with the stripping out.  She wasnt 
advised to keep the items which were removed.
But she was told that Axa wanted to deal with the claim remotely than send someone to the 
Channel Islands.  Axa were entitled to make that choice. But I think that, if they were going 
to rely on Mrs A and Mr D to oversee the work, they should have been very clear on what 
they needed them to do  including explaining why they should keep items which they and 
their contractors thought couldnt be reused.  I think, in the absence of that guidance, it was 
reasonable for Mrs A and Mr D to dispose of damaged goods.  And its not reasonable for 
Axa to base their decision to limit the claim on this.
Putting things right
I said in my provisional decision that Axa should pay Mrs A and Mr D £22,097.06.  I 
understood that theyd already paid £11,829.85.  And I said they should pay 8% interest on 
the outstanding amount.
Axa didnt comment on these figures.  Mrs A and Mr D said that theyd not received any 
payment from Axa, except the £100 compensation.  And they asked why Id not decided that 
Axa should pay the £1,600 theyd had to pay for decoration.
Im sorry I misunderstood what Mrs A and Mr D had received from Axa.  As theyve not 
received any settlement funds, Axa will need to pay them the full amount I provisionally 
decided they were due  as well as interest on that amount.
As for decoration, I told both parties I couldnt see that Mrs A and Mr D had sent Axa an 
invoice for this  so I didnt think it was reasonable to say Axa should pay for that.  Mrs A 
and Mr D replied with proof theyd submitted the invoice to Axa.  And Axa have said they 
accept they should pay it.  So Im directing they do that as well.
I also said Axa should pay Mrs A and Mr D £250 compensation for the trouble and upset 
theyd caused Mrs A and Mr D  in addition to the £100 theyd already paid.  Neither party 
has made any comments which have changed my view on this.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given, Im upholding Mrs As and Mr Ds complaint about AXA 
Insurance UK plc and directing Axa to
Settle Mrs As and Mr Ds claim for £23,697.06 (including decorating costs);
Pay interest on that sum at the rate of 8% from the date they offered to settle until the 
date of payment.  If Axa considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs A and Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs A and Mr D a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate;
Pay £250 for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs A and Mr D  in addition to the
£100 theyve already paid them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman