DRN-2614940
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to warn him that the property fund it 
recommended could be suspended, preventing him from accessing the money he invested.
What happened
In 2011 Mr P had £50,990.00 from a redundancy payment and was planning for his 
retirement.
He was advised to invest in the following stocks and shares ISAs:
 
£3,000.000 - M&G Property Portfolio Fund; £10,200.00 - M&G Strategic Corporate Bond A 
fund; £15,000.00 - Neptune Balanced Fund; £2,790.00 - M&G Recovery A fund; £10,000.00 
 Jupiter Merlin Growth Portfolio; £10,000.00  M&G High Yield Corporate Bond A Fund.
The M&G Property Portfolio Fund was suspended on 4 December 2019. 
Mr P said that he wanted medium-risk investments that he would be able to access if he 
needed, something he now needed to do. He said that he wasnt told that this could happen, 
and he wasnt given the key documents that said that the fund could be suspended.
Nationwide said that there were risks associated with this type of property investment, and it 
reviewed the fund regularly for this reason. It said that all the information was provided to Mr 
P and so doesnt think it did anything wrong.
The investigator at this service said that Mr P was given information about six separate 
recommended funds and so she understood why he may not have been able to recall 
everything he mightve been told or provided with back in 2011.
She noted that the Financial Planning report explained that there were risks involved with 
each of the investments and that he may receive back more or less than invested. It also 
referred to the General Key Features and Key Features Funds Supplement document 
throughout.
She acknowledged that Mr P said he never received these documents, and so may not have 
been aware that the fund could be suspended at any time. Also, that he said he was 
provided photocopies of some documents with parts missing. But given that the report refers 
to the supplementary sheet throughout, she thought that if he hadnt received any of these 
key documents, he shouldve asked for them before agreeing to invest. He shouldve made 
sure he understood all of the features of the fund and its terms. If it wasnt a suitable option, 
he couldve raised his concern with Nationwide before the investment commenced. 
She noted that the key features document that Mr P admitted he had receive states that it 
should be read along with the accompanying supplementary document. On page 19, it 
states under Fund specific risks:
"Property can be difficult to buy or sell. This could mean property may have to be sold for 
less than expected. If an exceptional amount of withdrawals is requested, the fund manager 
may be forced to sell properties quickly. This could mean that properties are sold for less 
than expected which would reduce the value of your investment. In exceptional 
circumstances, it may not be possible to sell properties quickly and the fund manager can 
suspend dealing in the fund. If this happened at a time you wanted to withdraw from the 
fund, it could become necessary for us to delay acting on your instructions. This would lead 
to a delay in dealing with your withdrawal." 
She was satisfied that this information was clear, spelling  out that the fund manager may 
choose to suspend a fund if s/he is unable to sell the properties quickly or if the value of the 
investment is in danger of reducing significantly.
She also noted that Nationwide wrote to Mr P in July 2019 (five months before the 
suspension), advising him that the fund wasnt performing as it should and urged him to 
contact it to review his portfolio. She said that the letter was clear and if Mr P had contacted 
the bank, he couldve reviewed the fund and taken action at that point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator but not entirely for the same reasons.
I agree that the main document references possible fund suspensions and, like the 
investigator, I cannot safely say whether Mr P received all the documentation but feel he 
ought to have actively requested any missing paperwork.
I do, however, broadly agree with Mr P that the advisor had a responsibility to draw his 
attention to any significant drawbacks with any of his recommended funds and I dont believe 
it was sufficient merely to give him all the lengthy documentation, assuming he did. I think he 
also had a responsibility to fully explain the particular risks with property funds and I am not 
persuaded that he did this, from what I have I have read.
That said, my role, and that of this service, is to assess whether there is sufficient, 
persuasive evidence to safely say that a business clearly did something wrong - and that the 
customer suffered a financial loss as a consequence.
Overall, I do not feel the advisors failure to spell out the suspension risk is sufficient to 
uphold this complaint, for several reasons.
The advisor recommended a very broad and diverse mix of funds and assets to meet Mr Ps 
apparent desire for a medium-risk portfolio. As such, I dont think it would be appropriate to 
consider one of those funds in isolation and potentially instruct Nationwide to pay 
compensation on that fund alone, without considering the overall advice.
As Mr P has not complained about this overall advice, I have solely considered whether the 
advice to invest a very small portion of his money in the property fund  and without fully 
spelling out its risks  was sufficiently flawed to uphold this complaint. All assets and funds 
have risks, and often different types of risks, particularly those which can be described as 
medium-risk. Mr P has not complained that he wasnt prepared to take a medium risk with 
this sum of money nor about the other funds. These collectively exposed his money to 
significant risk, something he appears to have been content to do.The fact that £3,000 of this £50,000 was in a property fund which could become illiquid, 
preventing him withdrawing it when he wanted to, represented in practice a very small risk to 
his overall invested sum. And, in my view, not so disproportionate a risk that it unbalanced 
the overall medium risk of the portfolio. In essence, I dont believe the failure to make more 
explicit the risk of suspension is sufficient to conclude the overall advice was inadequate.
Finally, and importantly, the advisor rightly recommended a very broad mix of funds and 
assets, to try and protect Mr Ps overall invested sum from drastic falls, and I think a very 
modest amount in a property fund helped meet that objective. Given this, I am not 
persuaded that Mr P would not have still agreed to place £3,000 in a property fund even if 
the advisor had spelt out the risks of suspension more clearly. This recommendation was 
part of a sensible diversification strategy designed to meet Mr Ps objective of achieving 
significant growth without taking excessive risks and, in that context, I cannot say the advice 
was flawed.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman