DRN-2852393
The complaint
A not for profit organisation Ill refer to as B have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited
refused to pay their commercial insurance claim for property damage.
Mr D has brought the complaint on Bs behalf.  
What happened
B hold a commercial insurance policy with Aviva. In January 2019, a large volume of rubbish
was dumped on Bs car park and exit road. On 10 January 2019, B claimed on their
insurance for damage to gates and locks and for the removal of the rubbish.
Aviva said B didnt have an extension to the policy for fly tipping. It said the removal of
waste would only be covered by the debris removal clause in Bs policy if there was also
insurable damage to property. Aviva said the area of grass where the rubbish had been
dumped hadnt suffered damage. It said this was because the grass was in a car park and
would still be there, or would grow back, when the rubbish had been removed. Aviva also
said that the debris removal clause was designed to cover the removal of items of insured
property that had been damaged.
Not content with this response, B complained to Aviva, but Aviva didnt change its
position. So, in March 2019, B brought their complaint to us. They said that, as their claim
hadnt been accepted, the rubbish was still blowing around their site and theyd been unable
to hold an annual fair which was due to take place on the grounds. B said Aviva had
previously paid a similar claim, so they expected this claim also to be covered. They said
Aviva had informed them that they should have been told prior to taking out the policy that
they wouldnt be covered for fly tipping, but B said this never happened and, if they had been
told, they would have bought the additional cover.
Aviva said the previous incident, which had been paid under the debris removal clause, had 
involved a fire which caused damage to the grass, so was different to the second claim.
However, it said even if it had made a mistake in paying the first claim, that didnt mean it
needed to pay the second one.
While we were looking into things, Aviva agreed to pay part of Bs claim for the damage to 
the gates and locks. 
Our investigator looked into Bs claim and recommended it be upheld. He thought the grass
had been damaged and so the claim should be covered by the policy. He also thought the
damage had caused interruption to Bs business because theyd suffered a loss from the
annual fair not being able to take place. Our investigator added that, in paying the first claim
and not telling B they didnt have appropriate cover, it had led B to believe it would be
covered for similar claims. So, he asked Aviva to pay Bs claim for waste removal and £500
to cover for the loss theyd suffered from the fair not being able to take place. He also asked
Aviva to pay £150 to compensate B for the inconvenience it had caused.
B accepted the investigators view and added that they would have experienced much
higher consequential losses if they hadnt eventually had the rubbish cleared themselves.
Aviva didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said it had paid the previous
claim because there had been a fire. But even if it had been paid incorrectly, it didnt mean it
needed to pay this claim. It added that fly tipping is an extension to the policy that would
have required B to pay an additional premium. Aviva initially agreed that the business 
interruption claim for the fair should be covered. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 May 2021 where I said:
The Property Damage section of Bs policy is an all-risks policy that covers damage to the
property insured. There are a number of clauses which apply to this section. The most
relevant one in this case is the clause for debris removal, which says:
The Sum Insured for each Item on Buildings, Machinery and Plant and Stock 
and Materials in Trade includes costs and expenses You incur with Our consent 
for the removal of debris, dismantling, demolishing, shoring or propping up of 
those parts of the Property Insured which have suffered Damage.
Damage is defined in the policy as Physical loss, destruction or damage and car parks
and roads are included in the policy definition of buildings.
Aviva doesnt think the debris removal clause covers Bs claim because it says this term only
applies to removing the parts of the property that have been damaged. The term doesnt
include removing external rubbish dumped onto Bs property. 
I accept that this wording indicates that it is only the removal of Bs damaged property that
would be covered.
However, Aviva paid a claim for similar circumstances in 2018. It said this was because
the external rubbish which had been dumped on Bs site had then been set on fire,
which had caused damage to the grass under the waste. Aviva doesnt think the
present claim is covered because the grass wasnt damaged by the dumping of waste,
or, if it was, then it would grow back.
In coming to its conclusion that the grass wasnt damaged in the present case, Aviva has
referred to the case law of Transfield v GIO (1996), Pilkington v CGU Insurance (2004) and
Quorum A/S v Schramm (2001). In summary, Aviva believes that the case law shows that
loss of usefulness in itself couldnt amount to physical damage. And that for something to
be damaged it would require a change in the physical state of the property, even at a sub
molecular level.
In addition to this case law, I have also considered Emmons v Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance
Co Ltd (2019)
(some wording from provisional decision deleted)
In summary, the New Zealand High Court found it was common ground that a minor crack in 
a building following an earthquake might not qualify as damage, whereas the cumulative 
effects of multiple cracks caused by the same earthquake could cross the threshold into 
damage. If the subject matter has a structural or functional purpose, the change must affect 
that purpose, and if it has only an aesthetic purpose then the damage must affect that 
aesthetic purpose.
My provisional decision went on to say:In addition to relevant case law, Im also required to consider whats fair and reasonable in
all the circumstances. And taking that into account, I think its fair and reasonable to
conclude that for physical damage to have occurred there needs to be a change in the
physical state of the property, as well as some loss in its usefulness.
Even though the grass could well grow back, I do think the rubbish being dumped on it would
have changed its physical state, particularly when considering that change can be at a sub
molecular level. So thats leaves me to consider whether the usefulness of the area was
affected.
Given that the area was used as a car park, then I think its fair and reasonable to say that its
usefulness was impacted because it couldnt be used while the rubbish was on it. This is
also supported by the annual fair not having taken place due to the rubbish not being
removed. So, on balance, I do think there was damage to property.
This means that the circumstances of the present claim are similar to the circumstances of
the previous claim.
While that previous claim involved rubbish being set alight, the claim was settled under the
debris removal clause, which I think led B to believe that they would be covered in similar
circumstances, i.e. if further dumping of rubbish caused further damage.
Ive also seen an email from Aviva to Bs broker, sent after Bs second claim, which says that
it should have told B that they didnt have appropriate cover following the previous claim. B
said that, if theyd known they didnt have cover for the further dumping of rubbish, they
would have purchased the necessary extension. Im persuaded by this as it seems they
would have wanted cover due to the likelihood of needing to make a similar claim in the
future.
So, I think by paying the previous claim and not making it clear to B upfront that there were
concerns over the level of cover, Aviva led B to believe they had appropriate cover in place.
I therefore intend to find that the fair and reasonable outcome to this particular complaint is
for Aviva to put B back [into] the position they would have been in if B had purchased the fly
tipping cover and pay Bs claim for debris removal. Aviva can deduct the cost of
the premium for the add-on extension from the settlement.
B has also said it lost £500 as a result of the annual fair not going ahead. Aviva has
accepted this should be paid under the business interruption section of the policy, so Im not
going to comment on that further.
As B have been without money they should have had, Aviva should add interest at a rate of
8% simple per year to the above amounts. For the debris removal claim this should be
calculated from the date B paid to have the debris removed to the date Aviva makes
payment; for the business interruption claim this should be from one month after the date
of business interruption insurance claim until the date Aviva makes payment.
In addition, I agree with our investigator that Aviva should pay B £150 to compensate B for
the inconvenience caused through its handling of this claim.
B generally accepted the decision but felt that it may not be fair for them to be required to 
pay for the additional cover, given that theyd reduced a possible much higher business 
interruption claim by removing the debris themselves. 
Aviva disagreed with my decision. In summary, it said:The previous claim which had been submitted under the malicious damage section of 
the policy was correctly declined but then incorrectly paid.
Debris removal is only covered if caused by a defined contingency covered which fly 
tipping isnt.
Fly tipping cover is available as an add-on to the policy and it was the brokers 
responsibility to advise B of the cover available.
A temporary covering of the grass wouldnt constitute damage and neither the 
gravelled area nor the grass was damaged.
B had a duty to mitigate their loss and should have covered or removed the debris.
Any business interruption claim needs to flow from damage to property, which didnt 
happen in this case. But in any event, other areas of the grass and gravelled area 
could still be used.
If it accepted this decision it would mean that there wasnt a need for policyholders to 
purchase the fly tipping add-on to their policy. 
Aviva no longer accepted that the business interruption claim for the fair should be paid. So, 
I let Aviva know I thought it should pay the £500 business interruption claim for the fair as it 
hadnt covered the removal of the debris when it should have done. Aviva still didnt agree, 
as it didnt think it should pay the claim for debris removal.
Before reaching my final decision I let both B and Aviva know that part of my provisional 
decision included a mis-quote and advised I would be amending my final decision to reflect 
this. Neither B nor Aviva made any comments on that by the required date. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Many of the points Aviva has made are similar to those made in its previous submissions but 
they dont change my mind and I dont intend to repeat the findings set out in my provisional 
findings. 
Aviva said it paid the previous claim in error and although the previous claim was submitted 
under the malicious damage section of the policy, Aviva said it paid the claim under the 
debris removal section. I accept that the wording of the debris removal section of the policy 
indicates that the previous claim was paid in error, but I think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude it did cause damage to the grass for the reasons set out in my provisional decision. 
Bs claim doesnt seem to be covered under the terms of the policy. However, Im also 
required to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and I think that Aviva 
paying the previous claim without being clear to B that it had been paid in error or as a 
goodwill gesture, meant B had a reasonable expectation of a claim in similar circumstances 
being paid. And this led to them not buying the additional cover they needed for the second 
claim. As such, my decision doesnt mean that other policyholders dont need to buy the 
additional fly tipping cover in order to be covered for similar circumstances. 
For these reasons, I remain satisfied that the fair and reasonable outcome to this particular 
complaint is for Aviva to pay Bs claim for the debris removal. The terms and conditions of Bs policy requires a valid claim for damage in order for Aviva to 
pay a business interruption claim. Its unclear whether B would have been able to make a 
successful business interruption claim if theyd had the fly tipping add on. However, I think 
its fair and reasonable for Aviva to pay the £500 business interruption claim as a result of 
the fair not taking place. I say that because I think Aviva should have paid Bs claim and Im 
persuaded that the fair wouldnt have been able to take place with the large pile of debris on 
the grounds. I think B would have gone ahead with the fair if they were able to and I dont 
think its fair to conclude that B didnt mitigate their losses when considering the cost of the 
debris removal compared to the funds lost by not being able to host the fair. As B suffered a 
loss of £500 due to Aviva not paying their debris removal claim when they should have done, 
I think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to pay B that £500.
B have queried whether they should be required to pay for the fly tipping add on, as they 
believe they prevented a greater loss by paying for the debris to be removed. B have a duty 
to mitigate any losses they experience, and I think they did that when arranging for the 
debris to be removed before accruing larger losses. However, I dont think that I can fairly 
conclude that Aviva should waive the add-on fee, when this is cover that B would have 
purchased in order to be covered for their claim.
I also remain satisfied that £150 is a fair and reasonable amount for Aviva to pay B for the 
inconvenience of having to arrange the debris removal themselves.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Settle Bs claim for debris removal, (minus the cost of the fly tipping add-on) adding 
interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date B paid to have the debris 
removed to the date Aviva makes payment. 
Pay B £500 business interruption, plus interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from 
one month after the date of the business interruption insurance claim to the date 
Aviva makes payment. 
Pay B £150 compensation for inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman