DRN-3638073
The complaint
Mr D complains that Sterling Wealth Ltd (SWL) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his 
three personal pensions into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). Hes also unhappy 
with the underlying investments selected by the discretionary fund manager (DFM).
Mr D is represented in his complaint. But Ill only refer to him in my decision.
What happened
Mr D said he was contacted by an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) regarding a pension 
review. The IFA was from an appointed representative of SWL. 
Mr D said that at the time of the advice, he was employed and was 48 years old. He is now 
52 years old. He said he had limited investment experience and knowledge of the financial 
or pension markets. And a low capacity for loss and a low attitude to risk (ATR).
Mr D said he was advised to transfer his three personal pensions, held with three separate 
providers (providers A1, A2 and A3), into a SIPP with a provider Ill refer to as provider B. 
And then invest through a DFM Ill refer to as manager C. I understand that the total 
pensions Mr D was advised to transfer were valued at £28,762.34. Mr D said he was told he 
would get higher returns than if he left his money where it was. I understand that all three 
transfers took place in October 2017.
Mr D said he found out that hed lost approximately 30% of his pension value due to the 
collapse of one of the holdings in his new arrangement. He felt that the advice had been 
unsuitable for him. And that it had caused him a financial loss. He felt the IFA had been 
negligent in the advice hed given him as he had limited investment experience. And wanted 
to be put back into the position he wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice. On 20 
September 2021 he complained to SWL through his representative.
Mr D said that the IFA hadnt ensured that the recommendations were suitable for his ATR, 
needs and objectives and his overall personal and financial circumstances. And that the IFA 
had failed to consider his capacity for loss. He didnt think the SIPP was a suitable product. 
And felt that the high costs of the SIPP, compared to the fees in his original pension plans, 
hadnt been explained to him. He also felt that the overall portfolio chosen was unsuitable.
SWL issued its final response to the complaint on 17 December 2021. It didnt think itd done 
anything wrong. It said that the IFA had been a restricted adviser at the time, so he could 
only choose from risk-rated portfolios managed by manager C. It said this had been 
disclosed to Mr D. It said manager C was enjoying excellent performance at the time.
SWL also said that its IFA had been told by manager C and provider B that as there was a 
Corporate Bond Fund element in the portfolio, clients could benefit from strong fixed rate 
returns with solid asset backing. It said it had been told that provider B had carried out the 
necessary due diligence to allow the product on the panel. It said that manager C had 
selected this bond for 30% of Mr Ds overall fund. And that its IFA had been assured of the 
liquidity of the bond by both provider B and manager C.
Then in July 2018, SWL said that it was identified that its portfolios were performing better 
and at a lower cost than those of manager C. So it was decided to move all clients currently 
invested with manager C into SWL portfolios. It said that as SWLs appointed representative 
didnt have discretionary permissions, they first had to advise all clients individually again. 
SWL said that it sent Mr D the relevant paperwork in August 2018. But that, although it said 
it chased him for the paperwork, he didnt return the signed and completed form until 
November 2018. 
SWL said it then asked provider B to sell down Mr Ds investment, but it wouldnt accept the 
instruction as the portfolios were managed by manager C. SWL said that at this point, 
manager C said the bond element of the portfolio was illiquid. And that the bond then 
collapsed in June 2019. 
SWL said it made every effort to move the bond. And that if it had received the 
documentation earlier, it couldve moved Mr Ds investment out of the bond before it became 
illiquid.  SWL also said that it felt the advice it had given Mr D was correct and in line with his 
ATR.
Mr D was unhappy with SWLs response. So he brought his complaint to this service. He felt 
hed been told that the returns hed get in the SIPP would be higher than if he stayed in his 
existing arrangements. And that the risks of transferring his existing pensions into the SIPP 
hadnt been fully explained to him. Mr D also felt that the recommended investments didnt 
meet his ATR. He said that the loss of approximately 30% of his total pension fund had 
severely affected his retirement plans.
Our investigator requested SWLs file on several occasions. But SWL has had limited 
engagement with this service regarding this complaint. And despite several requests and 
chasers, it hasnt submitted its file or any further information for this service to consider. So, 
as our investigator has previously outlined to SWL, she had to base her view on this 
complaint on the only information available to her. She issued her view on 28 July 2022.
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that SWL had focused its 
final response to the complaint on the DFM and the illiquidity of the bond. And that it hadnt 
addressed the crux of this complaint, which she felt was whether the advice to transfer Mr 
Ds pension into a SIPP with a DFM service was suitable. Based on the limited information 
available to her, she didnt consider that the advice to transfer his pension into the SIPP was 
suitable. This was because she wasnt clear why Mr D specifically needed a SIPP. Our 
investigator recommended that SWL put Mr D back into the position he wouldve been in but 
for the unsuitable advice. And that it paid him £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused and the disruption to his retirement planning.
Mr D accepted our investigators view. 
SWL wrote to our investigator on 9 August 2022. It said it hadnt seen the chaser emails 
shed sent. Our investigator couldnt find anything wrong with the method shed used to send 
the chasers, but re-sent all of the information that had been sent to SWL. She also asked it 
to provide its file and further comments if it wanted to. But SWL didnt send any further 
information. 
This service also called SWL on 5 January 2023 as we still hadnt received any response to 
the view.  We wanted to ensure that SWL had received the emails wed been sending. We 
sent copies of all the emails wed sent again at this time. And asked SWL to review them 
and let us know if it wanted to provide any additional information or comments over the 
following week. But weve had no further information or comments on this complaint from 
SWL.On 10 January 2023 SWL told this service that it was being put into administration. This 
service requested further information about the liquidator. But SWL didnt respond.
The complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that SWL is responsible for the initial advice to 
transfer into the SIPP with provider B. And then to invest through a DFM. I say this because 
in its final response letter, SWL said that it felt this advice was appropriate advice and in line 
with Mr Ds ATR. 
I agree with our investigator that SWLs final response letter didnt fully cover Mr Ds 
complaint about the suitability of the advice he was given to transfer his three personal 
pensions with providers A1, A2 and A3, to a SIPP with provider B. Instead, the final 
response letter focussed on the DFM and the illiquidity of the bond. 
Ive been provided with very little information on this complaint. I havent seen the fact find or 
the suitability report that I wouldve expected to have been produced. Ive had to base my 
decision on this complaint on the final response letter and on what Mr D has told this service 
about his circumstances and objectives at the time. 
Mr D told us that he didnt seek advice about his pensions. So I conclude that he was 
comfortable with his existing pension arrangements with providers A1, A2 and A3. He also 
told us that he had limited investment experience and knowledge of the financial or pension 
markets. And a low capacity for loss and a low ATR. 
Ive no reason to believe that Mr Ds existing pension arrangements couldnt and didnt 
provide him with the type of investments that would meet his low ATR and capacity for loss. 
And even if Mr D wasnt currently invested with providers A1, A2 and A3 in line with his ATR 
and capacity for loss, Ive no evidence that he couldnt have carried out an internal fund 
switch with those providers to achieve his investment aims. 
Ive not seen any evidence that staying with Mr Ds current providers was considered, 
regardless of whether or not Mr D was deemed to have been happy with his investments at 
the time. As Ive been provided with very little information, I dont know why the IFA felt that 
the SIPP with provider B was needed so that Mr D could meet his objective of low risk 
investments. And I dont know which  if any  of Mr Ds other objectives couldnt have been 
met by staying with his existing providers. 
I dont have any information about Mr Ds existing plans with providers A1, A2 and A3, but 
its possible that by transferring out, he wouldve lost some guaranteed benefits. I consider 
that this in itself would be a reason to conclude that the transfer out was unsuitable. And as 
Mr D told this service he wasnt actively looking for pensions advice, Im satisfied that his 
existing pension arrangements still provided him with what he needed. 
As our investigator noted, IFAs are required to consider the benefits offered by existing 
pension arrangements before advising a consumer to switch to another arrangement. Ive 
seen no evidence that this was considered. And Ive also seen no evidence that switching 
out of the pension plans with providers A1, A2 and A3 was suitable. Nor have I been given any reason for the SIPP with provider B being recommended instead of a cheaper 
alternative, like a stakeholder plan. 
I acknowledge that SWL said that its IFA could only recommend a DFM. But this wasnt the 
only option available. Having reviewed Mr Ds circumstances and objectives, including his 
limited knowledge and experience of investments, his age, and the size of his pension pot, 
the IFA could, and should, in my view, have recommended that Mr D remain in his existing 
pension arrangement.
Given I have so little information to work with, Im not sure whether or not the recommended 
SIPP was more expensive than the three existing pension plans. But Im satisfied that the 
recommended SIPP did have a number of fees and ongoing adviser charges. And the DFM 
service also had charges. I also note that SWL didnt state in its final response letter that the 
charges connected to the SIPP it had recommended were lower than those in the three 
existing pension plans. I wouldve expected it to do so if this were the case.
Ive also considered Mr Ds age at the time of the advice. He was 48, and wouldnt be able to 
access his pension funds until he reached age 55. Given his age at the time of the advice, 
Im not persuaded that there was any pressing need to transfer away from his three existing 
arrangements. I consider that the IFA couldve told Mr D that he could review his pensions 
when he was closer to retirement and had a better idea of what he would need then. Without 
a positive reason and need to move away from his existing arrangements, Im not persuaded 
that the transfer to the SIPP with provider B was needed at the time of the advice. SWL 
didnt give any explanation of this in their final response letter. 
Ive also considered SWLs recommendation to use a DFM. Mr D complained that the 
underlying investments selected by the DFM didnt meet his ATR.
DFM is where the consumer delegates authority to a portfolio manager to make decisions on 
their behalf about what investments to make. As our investigator noted, DFMs are typically 
used by individuals who have an established history of investing, wish to further diversify into 
potentially atypical or alternative investments, and require constant management of their 
funds without their personal oversight. Based on what he told this service, Mr D, with his low 
risk ATR, didnt match this investor type. 
Mr D had a total fund value of under £30,000 with providers A1, A2 and A3. He also had a 
low ATR and a low capacity for loss. I consider this to be a relatively modest total fund size, 
which means that Mr D was more likely to have benefited from a basic arrangement or one 
with access to a range of relatively mainstream, low risk funds. Such funds would be unlikely 
to be highly volatile, and so wouldnt need continuous management. So I cant see why Mr D 
needed to pay additional fees for a DFM service. I also consider it more likely than not that 
the SIPP/DFM combination wouldve cost more overall than Mr Ds existing arrangements. 
Additionally, Ive seen no information about whether the adviser ensured that the way it had 
measured Mr Ds ATR mapped across to the DFMs risk scale. Or if the adviser agreed 
appropriate restrictions on what the DFM could invest in on Mr Ds behalf, given his ATR and 
capacity for loss. 
Ive not seen anything which suggests why Mr D wouldve needed to use a DFM. I cant see 
that he specifically asked for one. And Ive seen no reason that he needed to use one to 
meet his objectives. Without those reasons, I cant say it would be fair to consider that the 
use of a DFM was suitable for Mr D. 
I acknowledge that SWL said that the investment strategy couldve worked, had it not been 
for what it considered were the wrongdoings of the DFM. But I consider that without the unnecessary and unsuitable recommendation given to Mr D to switch into the SIPP and 
invest through the DFM, he wouldnt have been exposed to the possibility of financial losses 
beyond those he mightve incurred through the day-to-day market movements within the 
fairly mainstream existing pension funds in three existing arrangements.
And I dont think the resulting financial losses from the switch are so far removed from the 
initial advice as to consider any actions of the DFM to be sufficiently intervening. I think 
losses within the SIPP, and through the actions of an additional third party which didnt 
previously exist - the DFM - beyond those which mightve been incurred in the three existing 
arrangements would fall within a range of reasonably foreseeable outcomes when the advice 
was given. That these mayve been in large part a result of, according to SWL, inappropriate 
investment activity on behalf of the DFM, wouldnt in my view mean that SWL wasnt 
primarily responsible for Mr Ds losses by effectively placing him in harms way in the first 
place.
Therefore Im satisfied that the losses Mr D faced because he used the DFM couldve been 
entirely avoided if the adviser hadnt recommended the transfer from the three existing plans 
with providers A1, A2 and A3 to the SIPP with provider B.
Overall, Ive not seen any evidence that Mr D needed to replace his three existing 
arrangements with a SIPP in order to meet his objectives. From the information Ive seen, 
Ive no reason to consider that Mr D couldnt achieve his retirement objectives within his 
existing arrangements. Ive also seen no evidence that Mr D was the type of investor who 
would likely benefit from using a DFM service. Therefore Im satisfied that if the adviser had 
recommended that Mr D kept his existing arrangement, he wouldve done so. 
As Ive concluded that the advice to transfer into the SIPP was unsuitable, I dont need to 
consider what happened within the DFM. I say this because if SWL hadnt given Mr D the 
unsuitable advice, he wouldnt have been in the SIPP, or used the DFM service. So although 
Mr D has complained that the underlying investments selected by the DFM didnt meet his 
ATR, I dont have enough evidence to investigate that complaint fully. But in any event, Ive 
already decided that the advice to transfer was unsuitable, and Im satisfied that Mr D has 
lost out financially due to SWLs unsuitable advice. 
I uphold the complaint. I also agree with our investigator that £300 compensation should be 
paid to Mr D for the distress and inconvenience, and the disruption to his retirement 
planning, the unsuitable advice caused. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr D should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr D wouldve remained with his previous providers, however I cannot be 
certain that values will be obtainable for what the previous policies wouldve been worth. Im 
satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given Mr 
D's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Sterling Wealth Ltd do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, Sterling Wealth Ltd must:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with the notional value if it had remained with the three previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the 
notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the 
actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
SWL should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
SWL should pay into Mr D's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If SWL is unable to pay the total amount into Mr D's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr D wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr D 
wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 
75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr D £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused and the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If SWL deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. SWL should give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr D asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
SIPP with 
provider BSome 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional value 
from three 
previous 
providersDate of 
transferDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. SWL 
should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. The amount SWL pays should be included in the actual value before 
compensation is calculated.
If SWL is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. SWL may require that Mr D provides an undertaking 
to pay SWL any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. SWL will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr D's investment had it remained with the three previous providers until 
the end date. SWL should request that the three previous providers calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP with provider B should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if SWL totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the three previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, SWL will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr D's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a 
fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
The SIPP with provider B only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP with 
provider B to be closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need 
to be removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by SWL taking over the illiquid 
assets, or this is something that Mr D can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know 
how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If SWL is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr D an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP with provider B to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the three previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, then I 
consider the measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr D's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr D into that position. It does not mean that Mr D 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr D could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Sterling Wealth Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Sterling Wealth Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman