DRN-2665340
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Intelligent PMI Limited (IPL) mis-sold them a personal private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a private medical insurance policy which was underwritten by an insurer 
Ill refer to as P. This policy covered Mr Bs existing medical conditions and also provided 
out-patient cover.
In August 2018, they spoke with one of IPLs advisers, who recommended that they should 
take out a new personal private medical insurance policy. This policy was underwritten by an 
insurer Ill call A. The new policy was significantly cheaper. It was offered on a moratorium 
basis. Mr B had had a pacemaker inserted many years previously and he also had a 
squamous cell condition. The moratorium condition meant that these conditions wouldnt be 
covered unless Mr B had been symptom free and hadnt received any treatment for those 
conditions for a two-year period after the policy began.
IPL sent Mr and Mrs B policy quotation documents to consider. Mr and Mrs B decided to 
accept the advisers recommendations and their new policy with A started on 12 September 
2018. Mr and Mrs B spoke to the adviser again in August 2019 after receiving their renewal 
documents, as they were looking to see if IPL could obtain a price reduction. IPLs adviser 
was able to obtain a 5% discount from A and the policy renewed.
In January 2020, Mr B got in touch with IPL to let it know he was going for a check-up for his 
skin condition. The adviser suggested he should let Aviva know, even though the condition 
was subject to the moratorium. Mr B did so and Aviva confirmed that there was a moratorium 
in place for Mr Bs medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs B made a complaint to IPL about the sale of their policy. They said they hadnt 
been told that the policy had been subject to a moratorium on their medical conditions. And 
they also said that the policy didnt provide any out-patient cover. Both of these things had 
been covered by their previous policy with P. They felt the policy hadnt been suitable for 
their needs. They cancelled the policy with A.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She considered the available 
evidence to decide what she thought was most likely to have happened. Although there 
wasnt a call recording from the time of the sale, she took into account IPLs sales process; 
fact find documentation; the policy paperwork and subsequent call recordings from the 
following renewal and January 2020. She was satisfied, on balance, that it was most likely 
that IPLs adviser had highlighted the moratorium condition to Mr and Mrs B and that they 
were aware of it. She also thought the policy seemed broadly suitable for their needs, given 
the information it appeared theyd given IPL. So she didnt think IPL needed to refund Mr and 
Mrs Bs premiums.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and Ive summarised their response. They didnt feel that evidence 
of the sales process showed that IPLs adviser had adhered to it. They maintained that he 
hadnt made the implications of the moratorium clear. They said IPL had cold-called them to 
get their business and this showed its determination to get a sale. They felt the adviser had 
been motivated by getting commission. Mr B had been diagnosed with a melanoma when he 
saw a specialist about his skin condition, which he was self-funding. When theyd spoken to 
A about this, itd made clear that Mr B wouldnt be covered for any cardiology condition and it 
was only then that they realised the policy didnt suit their needs. They said that while IPL 
had sold them a cheaper policy, if theyd realised how limited the cover was, they wouldnt 
have taken it out. They also pointed out that in its final response to their complaint, IPL had 
said its adviser hadnt received any commission for the sale of their policy. But theyd now 
learned that IPL had earned commission from A.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make it clear that Im only 
considering the sale of the policy in this decision. If Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the level 
of commission IPL was paid for selling their policy, theyll need to raise a separate complaint 
with IPL about that issue before were potentially able to consider it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, Ive decided not to uphold their 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Both parties agree that IPL recommended Mr and Mrs B should take out a policy with A in 
August 2018. This means, according the relevant regulators rules, that IPL needed to 
ensure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs B and met their needs. It also needed to give 
them enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy so that they could 
make an informed decision about whether it was right for them. 
Was the policy suitable for Mr and Mrs B?
Ive first considered whether it was reasonable for IPLs adviser to conclude that the policy 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs B. Unfortunately, at the time IPL recommended it to Mr and Mrs 
B over the phone, it didnt have call-recording capability. So I cant listen to exactly what was 
said and discussed. This means that in making my decision, Ive taken into account the 
sales script IPLs sent us; the policy paperwork and Mr and Mrs Bs recollections about the 
sale to decide what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs B say that IPLs adviser didnt tell them about the moratorium or explain the 
implications of it to them on their cover with A. They also say that IPLs adviser didnt tell 
them that they no longer had out-patient cover, as theyd had included on their policy with P. 
IPL says its adviser did give Mr and Mrs B the relevant information and recommended a 
suitable policy. Where there are differing versions of events, I need to make my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and circumstances.
Ive first considered the sales script IPL sent us, which sets out how its advisers are 
expected to conduct sales calls. The script indicates that potential customers are asked 
questions about their existing private medical insurance provision, their budget and 
questions about their health. They are also asked questions about which benefits theyd like 
to select and if so, what level of cover they require. The script also includes the following 
explanation about moratorium policies:
Any medical condition you have received treatment, advice, medication, or signs and
symptoms of, in the last five years will be excluded from cover until you complete twoyears from the start of the policy without any treatment, advice, medication, signs or
symptoms for that medical condition or related medical condition. Any new condition
will be covered immediately in full.
In my view, this explanation sets out how moratorium cover works and how it impacts on a 
policyholders potential cover. At the conclusion of the call, the script directs advisers to 
restate the moratorium explanation when they recommend a particular policy.
So Ive next considered the available evidence from around the time of the sale and the 
fifteen months after it, to decide if I think its more likely than not that the adviser did broadly 
follow the script and meet IPLs regulatory obligations.
IPLs provided us with a copy of the fact find that appears to have been carried out at the 
time the policy was recommended to Mr and Mrs B. Its signed and dated 21 August 2018. 
The fact find includes details of discussions between Mr and Mrs B and IPLs adviser and 
their demands and needs. 
The fact find document says that Mr and Mrs B were seeking to change policies because 
their policy with P with too expensive. It states that they were thinking about cancelling 
private medical cover altogether due to affordability issues and they wanted to save money 
on their premium. The fact find includes a section called demands and needs. This includes 
a set of check-boxes for a customers priorities. One of the boxes ticked was reduce 
premium. So it appears that one of Mr and Mrs Bs main priorities was to reduce their outlay 
for their private medical cover. Im satisfied, from the fact find, that their budget and needs 
were discussed.
Ive then thought about the moratorium and how this impacted Mr and Mrs Bs policy. One 
section of the fact find is called claims info. This says:
Mr B - has had pacemaker for over 20 years- 2 battery changes on the NHS - last one over 
5 years ago.
Mr B - BCC - is having creams applied - last saw someone 6 weeks ago.
Aware both excluded and all related.
This would suggest that IPLs adviser did discuss Mr Bs medical conditions with him and 
what recent treatment hed received for those conditions. Mr B now says he has six-monthly 
check-ups for his pacemaker, which means hed never have been covered for any cardiac 
conditions. He says that hed have expected the adviser to have known this. But I think it 
was reasonable for the adviser to rely on the information Mr B gave him when completing 
the fact find. I wouldnt reasonably expect an insurance adviser to have a detailed 
understanding of how all cardiac conditions might be monitored and when. And I also think 
the fact find suggests that the adviser did explain to Mr and Mrs B that his conditions would 
be subject to the moratorium. I say that because the form also later notes:
Mr. B aware that the policy is on a moratorium basis and is satisfied that the saving justifies 
the move.
In my opinion, this would also support a finding that its more likely than not that IPLs 
adviser did explain the moratorium and how this would affect cover for Mr Bs existing 
conditions. The fact that Mr and Mrs B chose to take-up the advisers recommendation for 
the new policy at a lower price, despite seemingly being aware that Mr Bs medical 
conditions wouldnt be covered until hed been symptom-free for a two-year period.Mr and Mrs B have also said that they werent told that their new policy didnt cover out-
patient treatment. The fact find includes a selection of boxes for an adviser to tick, setting out 
available cover options. In Mr and Mrs Bs case, in/day patient cover; private ambulance and 
full cancer cover were selected. The options for out-patient cover werent ticked. 
On balance, I think it was reasonable for IPLs adviser to conclude that the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs B. The policy was around £2800 cheaper than their renewal quote 
with P. Given Im satisfied its most likely Mr and Mrs B wanted to obtain cheaper cover, I 
think it was fair for IPLs adviser to conclude this policy met that need. It also seems that 
they didnt require out-patient cover, so I dont think it was unreasonable for the adviser to 
recommend a policy which didnt include it. And as Ive explained above, I think its more 
likely than not that the adviser did explain the moratorium to Mr and Mrs B and that they 
understood and accepted the impact on their cover. Given the information the fact find 
suggests Mr and Mrs B gave the adviser about Mr Bs pacemaker, I dont think he ought 
reasonably to have been put on notice that the policy might never provide cardiac cover. So 
on balance, I think it was fair for IPLs adviser to conclude that the recommendation was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Bs needs.
Did IPL provide Mr and Mrs B with clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy?
Ive turned to look at the quotation paperwork which was sent to Mr and Mrs B following the 
advisers recommendation. I understand a quote had also been sent to Mr and Mrs B before 
they spoke to IPL again on 21 August 2018 to go ahead with the policy. I can see that the 
quote says: Out-patient cover: £0. And it also says, for both Mr and Mrs B, This member 
has been accepted on a moratorium basis. Please refer to the terms and conditions for 
details.
The paperwork and policy details were sent to Mr and Mrs B on 21 August 2018. And the 
policy began on 12 September 2018. In my view, I think the paperwork clearly set out that 
there was no out-patient cover on the policy and the basis on which the policy had been 
offered. If Mr and Mrs B felt the policy wasnt right for them, I think IPL provided them with 
enough information about what the policy did and didnt cover for them to either decide not to 
go ahead with taking it out or to cancel the policy within the cooling-off period.
Subsequent correspondence
IPL has provided copies of calls between Mr B and its adviser shortly before the 2019 
renewal and in January 2020. During the calls, the adviser mentioned the moratorium to Mr 
B again and Mr B told the adviser he was happy with the policy. They had a wider discussion 
about the moratorium and how it might apply to Mr Bs skin condition in January 2020. There 
was not enough in this call to lead me to think that Mr B hadnt known about the moratorium, 
or that he wouldnt have gone ahead with the policy if he had. 
On balance, I think it was fair for IPL to conclude that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs 
B, based on the information they gave the adviser. And I think the paperwork made it clear 
enough that the policy had been offered on a moratorium basis and didnt include out-patient 
cover. So while Im sorry to disappoint with Mr and Mrs B, I dont think IPL has done 
anything wrong which it needs to put right.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman