DRN-3772621
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money she lost when she was 
the victim of what she feels was a scam.
What happened
Mrs P wanted to get some building work done at her property, so was looking online for a 
builder. She posted about the work she wanted doing on an online marketplace for local 
services and tradespeople, and was contacted by a building company interested in 
completing the work. Someone from the building company came to Mrs Ps property to 
provide a quote. And a price and a contract were agreed for the building company to carry 
out the work.
Mrs P made three payments to the building company from her Barclays account, initially for 
a deposit and then for materials and early work by sub-contractors  totalling £60,000. 
Unfortunately there were a number of delays to the work. And when it became clear the work 
wouldnt be completed by the agreed end date, Mrs P wrote to the building company to 
cancel the contract and ask for the money she had paid back. As the building company 
refused to refund the money shed paid, Mrs P reported the payments to Barclays as a scam 
and asked it to refund the money she had lost.
Barclays investigated but said Mrs P had willingly made the payments herself and it 
considered this to be a civil dispute between her and the building company that it couldnt 
get involved with. So it didnt agree to refund the payments Mrs P had made. Mrs P wasnt 
satisfied with Barclays response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said it appeared the building 
company was a legitimate company and hadnt set out to intentionally defraud Mrs P. So 
they thought this was a civil dispute between Mrs P and the building company, and didnt 
think Barclays should have to refund the payments Mrs P made. Mrs P didnt agree with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Barclays to refund the payments 
Mrs P made to the building company. Ill explain why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of 
certain types of scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers are only 
covered by the code where they have been the victim of a scam.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. So in order 
to determine whether Barclays should refund the money Mrs P lost under the CRM code, I 
need to consider whether Mrs P has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, whether 
the building company set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud her.
Mrs P has said she was looking to get the work done on her property and posted about the 
work on the online marketplace. So she wasnt cold-called about having the work done and 
Ive not seen anything to suggest the building company was putting any significant pressure 
on Mrs P to have the work done.
The building company visited Mrs Ps property before the work was agreed, provided a 
quote and agreed a contract detailing the work to be done  which I would expect of a 
legitimate tradesperson. And Mrs P says the building company was registered on 
Companies House and showed her details of work it had completed previously. And she 
visited the building companys offices, was shown the plans for the work and discussed 
potential changes or additions to the work  which I wouldnt necessarily expect to see with a 
scammer.
The building company has said the delays to the work were caused by changed Mrs P made 
to the plans and increases to the cost of building materials. And I dont think these are 
unreasonable or implausible reasons for delays.
Weve also received information from the building companys bank that it has no concerns 
about how the account is being used and no other scam claims have been made against the 
building companys account. And Ive seen evidence of the activity on the building 
companys account which shows the sorts of incomings and outgoings Id expect to see for a 
legitimate building company, and appears to show the building company was attempting to 
operate as a legitimate business at the time Mrs P made the payments to it.
Its clear the agreement between Mrs P and the building company didnt go as planned. And 
I appreciate that Mrs P feels the work that was agreed hasnt been done, so I understand 
why she feels so strongly about what has happened. But, based on the evidence I have, I 
think this was likely a case of a legitimate agreement that subsequently went wrong. I dont 
think the evidence suggests the building company set out from the beginning with the intent 
to defraud Mrs P, or that Mrs P has been the victim of a scam here.
So I dont think the payments Mrs P made to the building company are covered under the 
CRM code, or that Barclays should be required to refund the money she lost.
Mrs P has sent us copies of news articles about other victims of this building company and 
argued that the number of other victims suggests the building company intended to defraud 
its customers. But the Financial Ombudsman Service looks at each case individually on its 
own merits, so I can only make a decision about what happened in her specific 
circumstances. And, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think the evidence in this 
particular case suggests that the building company set out with the intent to defraud Mrs P.
I sympathise with the position Mrs P has found herself in, and Im in no way saying she did 
anything wrong or that she doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the building company. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it would be fair to hold Barclays 
responsible for the money she lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman