complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Mrs C says Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square), trading as 
Egg, mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case. Having done so, Ive decided the PPI 
wasnt mis-sold for reasons that Ill now explain.
Canada Squares records show that Mrs Cs application for the credit card was made online. 
And it has sent screenshots of what the online application form would have looked like at the 
time of the sale. These show a section on PPI, with yes and no options for taking the 
cover which the consumer needed to choose. And I can see that Canada Squares record of 
Mrs Cs application shows she selected the yes option.
So I think Canada Square make it clear to Mrs C that she had a choice about the PPI and 
that she actively decided to take it.
Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C, so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have to make sure she got enough information so that she could decide 
this herself.
I think its possible the information Canada Square gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But, from what I know of her circumstances at the time, I dont think 
better information would have changed her mind about taking it. I say this because:
She appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main
exclusions and limitations.
Mrs C says she didnt need the PPI cover because she was eligible for generous sick
pay and redundancy compensation from her employer. But this policy would have
paid out in addition to her other means and, potentially, for longer than these would
have lasted in full. So I still think she would have valued the extra security that the
policy gave her.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for her. And as its premiums were
paid for monthly, she could have cancelled the policy if it no longer met her needs.
So I dont think that Mrs C has lost out by anything that Canada Square may have done 
wrong when it sold her this PPI policy.
DRN-1088001my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Canada Square Operations Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman