DRN-3497953
The complaint
Mr T complains that his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) provider, Curtis Banks 
Limited (CBL), caused significant delays in the transfer of his SIPP from them to another 
provider.
What happened
Mr T had a SIPP with CBL. In August 2020 he started the process of transferring his SIPP to 
another provider  provider A. But the transfer didnt complete until 27 November 2020.
I understand that the majority of Mr Ts plan value was held in investments with three 
separate third party investment managers  managers B, C and D.
CBL asked provider A for information to allow them to complete due diligence checks on 20 
August 2020. Provider A provided the requested information on 24 August 2020. 
CBL said that after theyd completed the due diligence on provider A on 8 September 2020, 
they instructed each of the three investment managers to encash all assets and return all 
sales proceeds to them. They said that they were then reliant on those managers to arrange 
the sale of all assets and return the funds to the SIPP.  CBL said that once all funds had 
been received from the three investment managers they made a single transfer payment 
promptly to provider A. 
Mr T complained to CBL on 18 October 2020. He said that although disinvestment 
instructions had been sent to managers A, B and C by 14 September 2020, the funds had 
yet to be transferred. He said this was causing him great concern. He asked CBL to update 
provider A on progress with the transfer on 19 October 2020. Mr T also said that he didnt 
expect to pay charges or fees for the SIPP transfer.
CBL issued their final response letter on 10 November 2020. They didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. They said that once theyd received the transfer request, they had 
immediately started work on the transfer itself. They said this broadly consisted of four steps:
-completing due diligence checks on provider A; 
-instructing the various holders of the SIPP assets to sell them down to cash; 
-making payment to provider A; and 
-closing the CBL SIPP and issuing the necessary paperwork.
CBL said that they were currently still in the second stage of the transfer process. This was 
because, although theyd instructed managers B, C and D to realise the cash, they were still 
waiting for the sale proceeds from managers B and D. They said that theyd continue to 
chase those managers for updates. But that they were reliant on managers B and D to 
dispose of the investments and transfer the cash to them. They said that as of 9 November 
2020, manager D had completed the sales and was in the process of moving the funds. But 
that manager B had yet to complete all of sales.
Also on 10 November 2020, Mr Ts IFA asked CBL if it would be possible to make a partial 
transfer to provider A of just the cash proceeds. CBL replied on 12 November 2020. They 
said that they would be able to partially transfer cash proceeds to provider A. But that they 
would require five years' fees to be retained, on top of an additional partial transfer fee. CBL 
also gave an update on manager B and D. They said manager B had sent the instruction to 
their dealing team to be actioned. And that funds from manager D were due to be disbursed 
on 28 October 2020. They said that they hadnt received anything, but that they were 
chasing. 
On 12 November 2020, Mr Ts IFA asked CBL if they would waive the partial transfer fee 
under the circumstances. On the same day, Mr T also wrote to CBL to reinforce his 
complaint, which he didnt think theyd taken seriously. He asked CBL to take the following 
actions:
-At no charge, for that part of his funds that CBL already held, carry out a partial 
transfer by 13 November 2020 to provider A so that they could be reinvested.
-For Mr Ts funds held with manager D, CBL should ensure that manager D wire the 
funds to provider A on 13 November 2020 for no fee. 
-For Mr Ts funds held with manager C, CBL should ensure that manager D act on the 
sale instructions as quickly as possible. He said he required CBL to email him by 
close of business on 13 November 2020 with the date the funds would be wired. No 
fee should be charged. He also required them to ask manager B for a letter of 
apology, explaining the reasons for the delay. 
-Waive all CBL fees for the year. 
CBL replied to Mr T on 13 November 2020. They said they couldnt agree to waiving all of 
his fees in respect of his transfer as they didnt agree that theyd caused any delays. They 
said that theyd issued the instructions to sell Mr Ts assets with managers B, C and D in a 
timely manner. But that although theyd received the sale proceeds from manager C, they 
still hadn't received them from managers B and D. They gave an update about what had 
happened with the sale proceeds from manager D. They also gave an update about what 
had happened with manager B, stating that theyd chased them for updates on 15 and 27 
October 2020. CBL confirmed that it was possible for the manager C funds that they held to 
be paid to provider A as a partial transfer. And gave the same information about the fee that 
theyd given on 12 November 2020. They said they wouldnt waive this charge.
On 17 November 2020, CBL emailed Mr Ts IFA to tell him theyd incorrectly told him theyd 
need five years' of fees within the account, if the funds from manager C were partially 
transferred out. They said that the partial transfer fee would in fact be £300. They also 
provided an update on the progress of the transfer.
Unhappy with CBLs response, Mr T brought his complaint to this service. He said that the 
transfer had taken much longer than hed expected. And that during the transfer process 
CBL hadnt kept him adequately informed about the reasons for the delays. He also said that 
as a significant part of his funds had been converted to cash early in the process, hed been 
out of the market for a substantial period. He said this had led to a financial loss. Mr T also 
felt that part of the transfer and advisory fees hed incurred throughout the process should be 
refunded.
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. Although she acknowledged that some of the delays were out of CBLs control, she felt that theyd caused four weeks delay 
to the process. She felt that CBL should carry out a loss calculation to establish whether Mr 
T had suffered a financial loss. And that they should pay Mr T £200 compensation for the 
stress and inconvenience caused by the delay. 
CBL agreed with our investigator that they couldve done more to chase manager D for the 
sale proceeds. And said theyd accept a four-week delay for the overall transfer. 
Mr T didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points:
-He said that the proceeds from the sale of his investment holding with manager C, 
which represented 60% of his total pension investment at CBL, were received in cash 
by CBL on 28 September 2020. But that they werent delivered to provider A until 1 
December 2020. He felt that in holding 60% of his pension in cash for over two 
months, CBL had failed in their duty of care.
He said that as there was a delay in the disinvestment of the other funds, CBL should have 
made a partial transfer to provider A, or at least offered that as a solution. He said that when 
CBL had been asked to make a partial transfer of the funds, theyd said that five years of 
fees would be withheld as a cost for making the transfer. But theyd corrected that a week 
later when they told him it would actually cost £300. He said hed asked for the fee to be 
waived under the circumstances, but CBL hadnt agreed. He felt that the failure to carry out a 
partial transfer had lost him nine weeks investment return on that money. 
-Mr T also disagreed with our investigators proposed method for carrying out the loss 
calculation for manager B. He felt it wouldnt be possible for an accurate calculation 
to be completed on the basis shed outlined.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. 
Ill explain the reasons behind my decision.
In order to be able to assess the length of any delays I consider CBL are responsible for, I 
first constructed a timeline of events. 
Timeline
On 17 August 2020, provider A wrote to CBL to ask them to proceed to transfer all the funds 
in Mr Ts SIPP to them. 
On 21 August 2020, CBL wrote to two of the investment managers holding Mr Ts assets 
(manager B and C) to ask them if any illiquid or suspended funds were held. Manager B 
responded on the same day to confirm that none were held. Manager C confirmed none 
were held on 26 August 2020.
On 8 September 2020  All due diligence checks had been completed, so CBL proceeded 
with the next steps in the transfer. 
On 10 September 2020 CBL sent the disinvestment instructions to manager D. They said that their letter clearly stated that the payment reference needed to be included when the 
sale proceeds were returned to them. 
On 14 September 2020 CBL sent the disinvestment instructions to manager C and manager 
B. CBL said that the instructions said: Please accept this letter as our authority and 
instruction to place a full disinvestment from the cash park [sic] from the above account.
On 15 September 2020 manager B said that they called CBL: to confirm we needed a new 
fund choice for redemption. CBL said they couldnt locate either the call from manager B 
or a call back to them on their call recording systems.
On 28 September 2020 CBL received sale proceeds of £373,008 from manager C.
On 6 October 2020 CBL said that manager D transferred the funds to them. But failed to 
include a reference, or tell CBL that itd made the payment. They said this led to the funds 
not being allocated to Mr Ts SIPP. And the return of the funds to manager D. CBL asked 
manager D to resend the funds using a clear reference.
On 9 October 2020 CBL emailed manager D to chase the transfer. They were at this point 
unaware that manager D had already sent the funds once without a reference.
On 13 October 2020, CBL said manager B had requested further security checks before it 
could proceed with the disinvestment request, which they had provided. 
On 14 October 2020 CBL requested a valuation from manager B. They received this the 
same day.
On 15 October 2020 CBL called manager B who confirmed theyd action the disinvestment.
On 18 October 2020 Mr T complained to CBL. 
On 22 October 2020 CBL emailed manager D to ask them to resend the funds with the 
correct reference.
On 26 October 2020 Provider A emailed CBL to chase the transfer of funds. CBL said theyd 
only received the funds from manager B by this time.
On 27 October 2020 CBL said that manager B had told them it would process the transfer in 
three to five working days.
On 29 October 2020 CBL told Mr T that manager D had transferred the funds to them earlier 
that month. But that the funds hadnt been allocated to Mr Ts account. Theyd been sent 
back to manager D. CBL said they were expecting the funds soon. CBL said theyd been 
chasing manager B for updates and had been told on 27 October 2020 that the transfer 
would take a further three to five days.
On 9 November 2020 CBL told Mr Ts IFA that manager B was still processing the transfer. 
On 10 November 2020 CBL issued their final response to Mr Ts complaint. On the same 
day, Mr Ts IFA asked CBL if it would be possible to make a partial transfer to provider A of 
just the cash proceeds. 
On 12 November 2020 CBL told Mr Ts IFA that they would be able to partially transfer cash 
proceeds to provider A. But that they would require five years' fees to be retained, on top of 
an additional partial transfer fee. Mr Ts IFA asked CBL if they would waive the partial transfer fee under the circumstances. Mr T raised a further complaint with CBL. 
On 13 November 2020 CBL replied to Mr Ts further complaint. Mr T said this response said 
it directly contradicted some of what hed been told. 
On 17 November 2020 CBL told Mr Ts IFA than theyd incorrectly told him theyd need five 
years' fees for a partial transfer. They said that the partial transfer fee would in fact by £300. 
They also provided an update on the progress of the transfer.
On 18 November 2020 CBL received £174,774 from manager B.
On 19 November 2020 CBL received £72,335 from manager D.
On 27 November 2020 CBL finalised the transfer and a BACS payment of £619,657 made to 
provider A.
I can see that the 26 October 2020 was noted in our investigators view as the date when 
CBL received the transfer of funds from manager C. But CBL have confirmed that those 
funds were received on 28 September 2020. Mr T said hed received contradictory 
information from CBL on this point. He said hed received an email stating otherwise on 26 
October 2020. And that if the proceeds from manager C had been received on 28 
September 2020, he wouldve expected to have been told at that point. He said in that event, 
he would probably have considered a partial transfer of his SIPP to minimise time out of the 
market.
I asked CBL to confirm that date they received the funds from manager C. They confirmed 
theyd received £373,008 from manager C on 28 September 2020. They provided the SIPP 
bank account ledger entries which confirm the funds were received on that date, not 26 
October 2020. And said that Mr T wouldve had access to this information on the online 
portal at the time. CBL didnt know where the date of 26 October 2020 had come from. They 
said they couldnt locate the 26 October 2020 email Mr T had referred to. 
Having constructed the timeline for the transfer process, I then considered whether it had 
been carried out in the usual timescales Id expect to see. 
As our investigator explained, good practice for a cash transfer is that it be completed within 
ten working days. But that where the assets arent already in cash, as was the case here, 
each step in the transfer process is expected to take a maximum of two working days. 
CBL told this service that their pensions transfer process broadly consisted of four steps, 
which I detailed earlier. Our investigator carried out a detailed analysis of where CBL had 
caused delays when compared to the good practice, and their required steps, as outlined 
above. Clearly its difficult to know exactly what shouldve happened and when, and any 
analysis will be our best estimate of when things shouldve taken place. 
Ive carried out the same analysis. My findings are broadly the same as our investigators. In 
summary, I consider that CBL caused the following delays:
a delay in issuing the disinvestment instructions to manager B and C 
an acknowledged one-month delay due to the incorrect instructions being sent to 
manager B.
a delay caused by a lack of proactivity in chasing manager D.I next looked specifically at the manager B delays. I needed to look at these before I 
considered the overall delay to the transfer.
Manager B delays
CBL have acknowledged that they were initially responsible for a one-month delay to the 
manager B transfer. They said that the initial instruction they sent manager B didnt allow 
them to action the disinvestment request. And that this wasnt corrected for a month. 
But CBL didnt consider they were responsible for manager Bs progress with the transfer 
after 15 October 2020. They said that although theyd chased manager B, it hadnt actioned 
their disinvestment request for almost a month.
I first considered the length of the delay caused by CBL here. From what Ive seen, CBL sent 
the initial disinvestment instruction to manager B on 14 September 2020. It appears that 
manager B called CBL the following day for further information, although CBL dont have a 
record of that call. 
It wasnt until the middle of October 2020 that manager B had what they needed from CBL in 
order to action the disinvestment. So I agree that CBL caused a months delay here.
CBL asked manager B to provide information so that they could determine if the delays 
theyd caused had led to a financial loss for Mr T. As manager B had in the end taken two 
working days to complete their 9 November 2020 disinvestment instruction, they assessed 
this loss based on what wouldve happened if their initial disinvestment instruction from the 
14 September 2020 had been completed on 16 September 2020. 
CBLs loss assessment showed that the delays theyd caused with manager B hadnt led to 
a financial loss. 
From what Ive seen, CBL took reasonable steps to assess whether the delay theyd caused 
to the manager B transfer had caused Mr T a financial loss. Their calculations showed that it 
hadnt. 
I acknowledge that Mr T disagreed with the proposed method for carrying out the loss 
calculation for manager B. He felt it wouldnt be possible for an accurate calculation to be 
completed. But I dont agree.  
The principles behind the assessment CBL carried out are the same as those this service 
wouldve recommended. And as this showed no financial loss, I dont consider that CBL 
need to take any further steps in respect of this part of the complaint. 
CBL didnt agree that the one-month delay theyd initially caused to the manager B transfer 
had impacted the overall timescale of the transfer. They said theyd not been in a position to 
make the final transfer payment until all funds had been received from all three managers. 
As the sale proceeds from manager D were received after the sale proceeds from manager 
B, I agree with CBL here. 
I next looked at the overall delay to the transfer caused by CBL.
When should the transfer have completed?
As I noted earlier, its hard to say exactly when the transfer shouldve completed, but Im 
satisfied that the issue with the disinvestment instruction for manager B didnt directly cause a one-month delay to the whole process.
However, I consider that CBL couldve ensured that the transfer was completed more 
quickly. They couldve been more proactive at all stages of the transfer. They couldve 
requested information and replied to correspondence more quickly. And they couldve taken 
steps to identify errors like manager Ds payment being sent without the correct reference 
more quickly. And to have chased payments  particularly from manager D after the failed 
first payment - more proactively. Overall, when looking at the whole sequence of events, I 
agree with our investigator that the transfer process couldve completed around four weeks 
earlier if CBL had acted as I wouldve expected them to.
Mr T has also complained that his funds with manager C were out of the market for two 
months. So I next considered this aspect of his complaint.
Should CBL have offered a partial transfer?
The full transfer couldnt take place until all funds were received. But Mr T said that the 
manager C transfer represented 60% of his total pension investment at CBL. And that those 
funds had been disinvested for two months before the transfer had completed. He felt that as 
there was a delay in the disinvestment of the other funds, CBL shouldve made a partial 
transfer to provider A, or at least offered that as a solution.
He felt that the manager C disinvestment shouldnt have occurred until CBL were certain that 
the funds from managers B and D would soon be disinvested. 
CBL said that they would usually expect to receive the sale proceeds within ten working 
days of issuing their closure instruction. But that, despite chasing them, manager B had 
taken much longer to complete the closure instruction.
CBL said that they couldnt be held responsible for the actions of third parties. They said that 
paragraph 8.14 of the Terms and Conditions confirmed that they wouldnt accept liability for 
the service of an Investment Manager.
I can understand why Mr T wouldve liked to have been given a partial transfer option, given 
we now know that the transfers from managers B and D took longer than expected. But he 
didnt ask CBL if a partial transfer was possible until 10 November 2020. 
I can see that CBL gave Mr T incorrect information about the cost of a partial transfer on 12 
November 2020, which they repeated the following day. This error appears to have been 
corrected on 17 November 2020. Mr T decided not to take this option.
I acknowledge that the incorrect information Mr T was given about the cost of the partial 
transfer wouldve been a big disincentive to go ahead with it. However, the incorrect 
information was corrected less than a week later, when Mr T was told the correct charge for 
a partial transfer was £300. This information was also available in CBLs Schedule of Fees, 
which confirmed that the fee was £300 for either a full or partial transfer. Mr Ts IFA 
requested that this charge be waived. CBL refused. And Mr T decided not to partially 
transfer. 
Mr T told this service that he felt CBL couldve: been upfront regarding the timing issue and 
offered a suggestion, say in the first week of October when they had the manager C money, 
that there were going to be delays completing the third transaction. He said that if theyd 
offered him the partial transfer option at that time, then it was highly likely he wouldve taken 
it. He felt that the loss hed incurred due to his manager C investment being disinvested for 
so long should be included in any compensation calculation. CBL said they dont offer a partial transfer unless it is specifically requested. 
While I can see the error wouldve caused some distress, Im not persuaded that the 
incorrect information Mr T was given led to his decision not to take the partial transfer option. 
I say this because he didnt take that option when he was correctly told it would cost £300. 
Therefore, although I acknowledge that Mr Ts position is that CBL shouldve offered him the 
partial transfer option earlier, Im not persuaded that he wouldve gone ahead with it. 
From what Ive seen, CBL had no reason to offer Mr T a partial transfer. This wasnt 
something they ever did. And in any event, they wouldnt have known in early October 2020 
that there would be significant delays with the other two managers. From what Ive seen, 
neither manager B nor D gave CBL any reason to consider that their transfers would take 
longer than expected. Therefore, Im not persuaded that CBL shouldve offered Mr T a partial 
transfer. And I dont consider that CBL should compensate Mr T for his funds with manager 
C being out of the market from 28 September 2020 to the date the funds were transferred to 
provider A. 
I next considered whether CBL should refund to Mr T part of the transfer and advisory fees 
hed incurred throughout the process.
Advisory fees
I understand why Mr T feels he CBL should refund part of the transfer and advisory fees. But 
I dont agree. I say this because his complaint is about delays to the transfer process. 
If the transfer hadnt been delayed, Mr T wouldnt have had cause for complaint. And 
wouldnt have asked for a refund of the transfer and advisory fees. This decision aims to 
resolve the issues caused by those delays. And to put Mr T back to the position he wouldve 
been in had the delays not occurred. As such, I dont agree that any part of the transfer or 
advisory fees should be refunded.
I finally considered the distress and inconvenience CBL caused Mr T. 
Distress and inconvenience
Mr T said that his underlying investments were highly liquid with short settlement periods, so 
the transfer shouldve processed quickly. He said that CBL had been unable to provide his 
financial advisers with specific information and that this had caused him significant stress.
CBL said that theyd not received a reason for the delays from manager D. And while they 
acknowledged that theyd initially caused a one-month delay with the transfer from manager 
B, CBL said that manager B hadnt told them why the sale hadnt been processed in a more 
timely manner.
From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mr T was regularly updated about the progress 
of his transfer. Updates were only provided when Mr Ts IFA chased for them, and were 
extremely basic. So I can understand why this wouldve caused Mr T distress.
Mr T also said that CBL didnt acknowledge his formal complaint in a reasonable timeframe. 
CBL also gave Mr T incorrect information on 12 November 2020, when they told him theyd 
require five years' fees to be retained, on top of an additional partial transfer fee. Although I 
covered what I felt was the financial impact of this error earlier in my decision, I also need to 
consider the distress and inconvenience impact on Mr T. I acknowledge that the transfer process wouldve been stressful for Mr T, given the amount 
he wanted to transfer and the time it took. I understand why he wouldve been distressed by 
CBLs lack of updates under the circumstances. And the incorrect information he was given. 
I agree with our investigator that CBL should pay Mr T £200 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience they caused. 
Overall, I consider that CBL couldve taken steps to ensure that the transfer progressed 
more quickly than it did. So Im of the view that they did cause some delays to the process. I 
also feel that they couldve updated Mr T more regularly, especially in the earlier stages of 
the transfer. I uphold this complaint. And require CBL to pay the compensation outlined 
below.
Putting things right
From what Ive seen, some of the delays were outside of CBLs control. But I consider that 
they were responsible for other delays. Im of the view that the total delay couldve been 
reduced by four weeks if CBL had been more proactive in processing the transfer. I consider 
that if CBL had been more proactive, the transfer wouldve completed on 30 October 2020. 
Therefore I require CBL to carry out a loss calculation to establish whether the delays 
caused Mr T a financial loss. 
What must CBL do?
To compensate Mr T fairly, CBL must:
Calculate what the value of his funds wouldve been if theyd have been transferred 
on 30 October 2020. This is A.
Confirm the current value of Mr Ts funds at the date of my final decision. This is B.
Subtract B from A to get C.
If C is a positive number, that is the loss that Mr T suffered. If C is a negative 
number, no compensation is payable.
If CBL doesnt make the payments within 28 days of when we tell it Mr T accepts my final 
decision, they should add interest at 8% per year simple until they do make the payments.
If theres a loss, CBL should pay into Mr Ts SIPP to increase its value by the total amount of 
compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of any charges 
and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If CBL is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ts SIPP, they should pay that amount 
directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ts actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at 
the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of rax. 
However, if Mr T would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If CBL deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr T how much it has taken off. CBL should give Mr T a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
I also require CBL to pay Mr T £200 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused 
by the delay. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint. I require Curtis Banks Limited to 
pay the amount calculated as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman