DRN-3671549
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy Santander UK Plc (Santander) hasnt reimbursed them after 
they transferred money to pay for a holiday home rental that that turned out to be a scam.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into too much 
detail here. However, in summary, Mr and Mrs B have been the victims of a scam. Mrs B 
was tricked into sending £3,300 to pay for a holiday home rental. Unbeknown to her at the 
time, she was actually dealing with a scammer and the payment was made to an 
international account in Spain. 
Mrs B made the payment online so there was no interaction with anyone from Santander. 
However, Mr and Mrs B now feel that Santander shouldve identified the payment they were 
making as suspicious and discussed the payment with them before it allowed it to leave 
their account. They believe that had Santander done so, the scam wouldve come to light, 
and they wouldnt have gone ahead with the payment.  
Santander doesnt agree that it could have done anything more than it had to protect Mr 
and Mrs B from the scam. It said the payment hadnt raised any suspicions at the time. 
Santander said it had contacted the receiving bank when Mr and Mrs B reported the scam 
but no funds remained in the beneficiaries account.  
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with what Santander said and so they brought their complaint to 
this service and one of our investigators looked into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed with Santander that there wasnt 
anything about the payment that meant Santander shouldve questioned it at the time. And 
she didnt think it shouldve stood out to Santander as suspicious enough to warrant further 
questioning before it was allowed to leave the account either. She also thought Santander 
had done all it could to recover Mr and Mrs Bs funds once notified of the scam but 
unfortunately Mr and Mrs Bs funds had already been removed from the receiving account.  
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators findings. They reiterated that the 
transaction shouldve stood out to Santander as it was higher than their normal transactions 
and was being made to a new payee. 
As an agreement has not been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr and Mrs B. I have significant 
sympathy for the situation they have found themselves in and I know that they were 
planning on using these funds for a family holiday. But having thought very carefully 
about what theyve told us happened at the time and Santanders actions, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Santander liable for their loss. Ill explain 
why.
It is accepted that Mrs B authorised the scam payment herself. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations and the 
terms and conditions of her account, Mr and Mrs B are presumed liable for their loss in the 
first instance. Where a valid payment instruction has been received, Santanders obligation 
is to follow the instructions that Mrs B has provided. 
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Santander to take 
additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in order to help 
protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. An example of this 
would be when a payment is sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic when compared with 
the usual use of the account. In such circumstances, Id expect Santander to intervene and 
ask some questions about the intended transaction before processing it. 
So, Ive first thought about whether the transfer Mrs B made could be considered out of 
character and unusual when compared with Mr and Mrs Bs usual account activity. I 
understand that Mr and Mrs Bs representatives feels that it was. Theyve said Mr and Mrs 
B normally use this account for their everyday spending, and therefore this higher value 
transaction being made to a new payee should have stood out. 
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs account statements for the months leading up to the scam, 
and whilst I agree that the payment is higher than the usual transactions made from this 
account, I still dont think it is remarkable enough for it to have stood out to Santander and 
to have prompted further discussion. Ill explain why. 
The payment is for £3,300. This is a relatively small amount and it isnt inherently suspicious 
when considering that it is quite common for customers to process transactions up to this 
amount on a daily basis. And so, it would be unreasonable for me to say that transactions in 
their low thousands were so inherently unusual that this one shouldve prompted further 
action from Santander. Overall, Im not satisfied that the scam payment should have stood 
out or looked so unusual when compared to Mr and Mrs Bs genuine account activity that it 
shouldve prompted further checks by Santander before it was allowed to leave this account. 
I have to stress that, at the time, Santander wouldnt have known that Mrs B was making a 
payment to a scammer. It is now only with the benefit of hindsight that we know that the 
payment was being made as the result of a scam. Ive thought about the fact that the 
payment was sent to a new payee. However, I dont find that a payment to a new payee is 
in itself suspicious enough to mean that Santander shouldve considered that Mr and Mrs B 
were at risk of financial harm either. 
It is also important for me to stress that banks have to strike a balance between processing 
payments as per their customers instructions and monitoring accounts for unusual and 
potentially harmful activity. And I dont think it would be fair to say that Santander shouldve 
identified the payment Mrs B made as suspicious enough to warrant further checks.Ive also thought about whether Santander couldve done more to help Mr and Mrs B once it 
was notified of the scam but I dont think it could. Santander contacted the receiving bank 
upon notification of the scam to ask if the funds could be returned but it received confirmation 
that there were no funds remaining in the receiving account and there wasnt anything further 
it could do to recover the funds. 
Finally, I want to say again that I am very sorry I to hear about what has happened to Mr 
and Mrs B. But at the same time, I dont think their loss was caused by any specific failing 
on behalf of Santander. The fault here lies with the cruel and callous acts of the fraudsters 
themselves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman