DRN-3805241
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as T, complains about the way National Westminster Bank 
Plc (NatWest) administered its business loan after it fell into arrears. 
The complaint is brought by Ts partners, Mr and Mrs K.
What happened
T held a business loan with NatWest.
T agreed a three-month repayment holiday with NatWest on the loan in or around August 
2019. The contractual monthly payment around this time was a little over £770. 
No payments were made to Ts loan between August and November 2019. Payments 
restarted in December 2019, when a payment of £2,317.41 was made. This left the account 
in arrears of one months payment.
Mr and Mrs K made the contractual monthly payments that fell due between January and 
March 2020. But in light of the impact that the coronavirus pandemic had on T, they then 
sought another repayment holiday on the loan from NatWest. 
NatWest said it couldnt agree another full repayment holiday, but instead put in place a 
three-month forbearance plan. Under the arrangement, Mr and Mrs K made token monthly 
payments of £1 for April, May and June 2020.
The contractual monthly payments of around £770 were to resume in July 2020, but this 
payment was missed.
NatWest was in touch with Mr and Mrs K over the months that followed, but no further 
payments were received and no other arrangements were agreed. Arrears therefore 
continued to accrue, ultimately leading NatWest to default the loan. The bank instructed a 
third-party debt collection agency in February 2021.
Mr and Mrs K resumed making payments to the account in January 2021, typically paying 
between £50 and £250 each month until, in September 2021, they made three larger 
payments to settle the debt in full.
Mr and Mrs K dont think NatWest treated them fairly in light of the financial hardship and 
broader difficulties  including ill health  they were experiencing as a result of the 
coronavirus pandemic. They said theyd maintained an intention to clear the debt, and had 
actually wanted to pay more at various points through 2020 and 2021  including during the 
forbearance plan  but NatWest had failed to properly consider their proposals or 
communicate with them effectively, which had prevented them from doing so.
NatWest doesnt agree that it did anything wrong, other than accepting that it failed to 
respond to one email from Mr K in July 2020. The bank says this was superseded by its own 
numerous attempts to reach Mr and Mrs K on expiry of the forbearance plan, but it didnt 
receive their income and expenditure (I&E) details. It says it needed these to assess a 
suitable way forward, and without them was left with no alternative than to initiate recovery 
action in December 2020. While the I&E information was subsequently received, this didnt 
demonstrate any affordability  so no other arrangements could be agreed, and the recovery 
action was continued.
One of our investigators reviewed Ts complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
NatWest had acted reasonably in agreeing the forbearance plan, noting that Mr K 
had advised the bank that T was unable to meet its obligations but expected to be 
back on top of its finances within three months. Had Mr and Mrs K wanted to pay 
more during this time, as theyd suggested, theyd not been obliged to accept the 
plan and could have made larger payments if theyd wished.
NatWest had confirmed the details of the plan to T in writing, which included that the 
contractual monthly payments would resume in July 2020  at which point they 
should contact the bank to discuss their options. No payment was received. The 
bank had also explained that failure to reach a satisfactory agreement would lead to 
a default and formal demand being issued.
While noting some contact from Mr and Mrs K over the months that followed, 
NatWest had made a number of attempts to discuss matters but through no fault on 
its part had been unable to do so. This was primarily because the bank hadnt 
received Mr and Mrs Ks I&E information.
It was Ts responsibility to resolve the arrears position and she thought NatWest had 
given it sufficient time and opportunity to do so, before defaulting the account and 
instructing recovery action. 
T didnt accept our investigators view and asked that the complaint be reviewed, so it was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
When alerted to Mr and Mrs Ks financial difficulties in early 2020, I think NatWest took 
reasonable steps to help in arranging the three-month forbearance plan. The bank took 
details of Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances  noting that Ts income had ceased, arrangements 
with other creditors had been made and that Mr K was recovering from some ill health. The 
banks notes also show that Mr and Mrs K envisaged their difficulties being short-term, and 
expected things to be back under control within three months. The forbearance plan, 
therefore, strikes me as an appropriate measure  requiring only the token payment of £1 a 
month over the three-month period, giving Mr and Mrs K some breathing space while they 
dealt with the impact of the pandemic on their affairs.
Mr and Mrs K have expressed some unhappiness that NatWest set the payment as low as 
£1 under the forbearance plan. But the information they provided to NatWest at the time 
suggested they were unable to pay any more. In any case, I dont think this prejudiced their position. If theyd wanted to pay more, they could have chosen to do so  £1 was the 
minimum, with nothing prohibiting them from paying additional amounts.
After the plan ended, Mr and Mrs K didnt resume the contractual monthly payments. And an 
alternative arrangement wasnt agreed with NatWest. Mr and Mrs K say this is due to 
shortcomings on the banks part, but I dont agree. I can see there was at least one occasion 
on which NatWest didnt respond promptly to an email sent by Mr K (for which it 
subsequently apologised); but looking at the record of contact from July until the loan was 
defaulted in December, it is evident that NatWest made a number of attempts to discuss the 
matter with Mr and Mrs K. And while several conversations were had, Mr and Mrs K didnt 
provide the income and expenditure details that the bank had been trying to obtain from 
September onwards. This information was legitimately needed, so that the bank could 
assess what level of payment Mr and Mrs K could afford  and so no arrangement could be 
agreed without it. 
During this time, Mr K sought to offer some reassurance to NatWest that Ts circumstances 
would improve imminently, such that payments would resume. But payments continued to be 
missed, and the I&E information NatWest repeatedly asked for remained outstanding. The 
banks contact records also show that scheduled calls were often postponed by Mr K, and 
calls made by NatWest went unanswered.
With the level of arrears in excess of 10 months payments and with no arrangement in 
place  or any information on which to consider an appropriate way forward  I dont think 
NatWest acted unreasonably in defaulting the loan when it did. It did so only after giving T 
ample time and opportunity to address the situation. While Mr and Mrs K did express a 
willingness to make payments, this wasnt acted upon  and I cant see that this was down to 
an error on NatWests part, either in its communication with them or in its handling of the 
matter more broadly.
After the loan was defaulted, NatWest instructed debt recovery agents. That was a step it 
was entitled to take. Given all Ive said about the way the loan was being managed by this 
time and given that the banks attempts to reach a way forward with Mr and Mrs K hadnt 
yielded a mutually acceptable way forward, I dont think this was an unreasonable course of 
action. 
I appreciate that these events arose during what was a difficult time for Mr and Mrs K. Im 
sorry to hear of both the financial and personal difficulties they were dealing with, as well as 
the impact that the issues relating to the loan in question had on their wellbeing. But for me 
to uphold the complaint, Id need to find that NatWest did something wrong or treated them 
unfairly. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it did  so there is no basis on which I 
could require it to take any action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman