DRN-2837357
The complaint
Mr S complains about the transfer of his ISA by Cofunds Limited trading as Aegon, referred 
to as Cofunds or the transferor.
He says Cofunds unnecessarily delayed his instructions to sell down and transfer his stocks 
and shares ISA to a new provider, referred to as the transferee. 
What happened
In my provisional decision of late April 2021, a copy of which is quoted below and forms part 
of this final decision, I said I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
provisionally Im minded to agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same 
reasons. Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr S says, Im unable to safely 
say that Cofunds behaved unreasonably. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Ss 
strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions to support this 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
Im mindful that the investigator has given Mr S until June to respond but I thought it would 
be helpful to make clear my provisional thoughts based on the available information that Mr 
S will no doubt consider and respond to in due course. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr S and Cofunds, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I note that the transfer request (covering letter) addressed to Cofunds was dated 14 
February 2020, but the attached transfer authority form (signed by Mr S) was dated 03 
February 2020, which suggests that he gave his authority (to the transferee) some 10/11 
days before the request (addressed to Cofunds) was drafted. 
I also note, what appears to be a scanned/faxed document receipt, is dated 21 February 
2020, which suggests that Cofunds (probably) didnt get the transfer request until that date. 
In any event, I note that the valuation  dated 27 February 2020  was obtained within days 
and in due course sent to the transferee, most likely on the same day, although the actual 
document is undated. 
I note Cofunds said:
As requested, please find enclosed a valuation dated the 27/02/2020 along with 
confirmation of ISINs. We now await your confirmation, in writing to proceed with the Re-
Registration.
In the circumstances, I dont think Cofunds behaved unreasonably by seeking confirmation 
from the transferee, which Im satisfied it did within a timely manner. 
I understand that on 9 March 2020, Cofunds received a call from Mr Ss advisers who said 
that nothing should be sold on his account until the funds were settled. I note at the time 
there was only one suspended fund  the M&G property fund  which required re-
registration, so Cofunds only drafted the stock transfer form and nothing else. 
But shortly after, in the time that it received confirmation of its stock transfer (on 11 March 
2020) there was another stock  by the name of Janus Henderson  which also became 
suspended and required re-registration. This isnt something that Cofunds couldve foreseen 
at the time, or envisaged having to deal with on top of the other suspended fund and 
instructions. I note that Cofunds made the transferee aware of this second fund on 30 March 
2020  in good time  and made clear that it would proceed as previously instructed, unless 
told otherwise. 
Cofunds chased the transferee on 6 April and 20 April 2020, about the second fund, as it 
hadnt heard back. It wasnt until 21 April 2020, Cofunds received instructions to proceed 
with processing the second suspended fund  in other words, it confirmed that it would take 
the units in-specie  and the sell down of the rest of the account. This meant Cofunds had to 
draft another stock transfer form to request the units, which was likely to take more time. In 
the circumstances, I dont think Cofunds was wrong not proceed with matters until it had 
heard back from the transferee about how it should proceed. 
I note confounds says:
We didnt receive a response until 21 April despite sending the e-mail on 30
March. They informed us they would take the units in-specie, which meant we had to draft 
another stock transfer form to request the units. We did this and again referring back to the 
IFAs request did not sell down the funds as we were still awaiting transfer confirmation from 
Janus Henderson.
I note Cofunds sent the transferee the ISA valuation the same day  21 April 2020  and the 
required acceptance was received on 27 April 2020 when it requested further information. 
Again, I dont think Cofunds couldve acted sooner without receiving the acceptance from the 
transferee. The funds were sold down in May while transfer of the unsold funds took place. 
The full transfer was completed on 26 May 2020. In the circumstances, and on balance, Im 
unable to blame Cofunds for the delays.  
Im aware Mr S says that hed expect the funds to be sold down within two working days of 
the instructions, by 18 February 2020. But I dont think that wouldve been possible, given 
that Cofunds probably didnt receive the request until 21 February 2020, and then there were 
additional instructions. 
But even if Im wrong about the date when Cofunds received the transfer request  which on 
the face of the evidence I dont believe I am  theres nothing to say that unless a business 
performs a text book perfect transfer, its in the wrong. Thats generally why the HMRC 
gives businesses up to 30 calendar days within which to transfer non-cash ISAs.   I appreciate Mr S says that Cofunds shouldve had a mechanism in place to complete the 
sale of funds first. I note he says that it shouldnt have been held back by having to complete 
stage two (confirming the transferee can receive funds) and stage three (transferring the 
funds) beforehand. But on balance, I dont agree, I cant blame Cofunds for following its own 
process, which Im satisfied it did in a timely manner. It also had to deal with the additional 
suspended funds. 
I note Mr S says the process  as he was led to believe  was that Cofunds wouldnt sell 
down the liquid funds until the frozen property funds  the (suspended) M&G Feeder 
property fund (and subsequently the Janus Henderson fund)  had been transferred in-
specie. 
Im aware that a transferor is unlikely to transfer any holdings until the transferee has agreed 
with the valuation of the funds, and confirmed whether it can accept the holdings, usually 
within a specific period, before taking any further action. Im aware that this is common 
industry practice, so I cant blame Cofunds for taking this course of action, before selling 
down the funds and transferring the cash. 
Im sure Mr S already knows, that the value of his investment is dependent on the stock 
market. The impact of the Covid-19 global pandemic on the financial market is not 
something that Cofunds could control or predict. So, I cant blame it for not being able to 
obtain a better price when funds were sold. 
In summary, subject to any further submissions, I dont think that Cofunds has done anything 
wrong by following its own transfer process. I also dont think that this means Mr S was 
treated unfairly. Im broadly satisfied that Cofunds still complied with Mr Ss overall 
instructions to transfer his ISA, and it endeavoured to do so within HMRC guidelines. I dont 
think that it can be held responsible for delays outside of its control.   
I agree with the investigator that the ICO maybe a better forum to deal with the SAR element 
of the complaint and whether or not Cofunds response complied with its duty under the 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Its not something that we would consider. 
I appreciate what Mr S says about other businesses transferring his assets sooner, by 24 
February 2020. Be that as it may, in this case Im only considering the actions of Cofunds 
and the fact another business took less time to transfer assets isnt evidence that Cofunds 
did something wrong because it took longer. 
I understand that Mr S was planning to retire, and that a loss in value of his ISA may have 
caused him to change his plans, but in the circumstances, I cant blame Cofunds for this.
Mr S responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. I note he provided two responses, 
but in short, he said:
Hes unhappy about my issuing a provisional decision despite him being given until 
June 2021 to respond to the investigators view after receiving a hardcopy of our file 
in response to his freedom of information request. Therefore, he doesnt believe that 
Ive read the file, and has no confidence in my decision. In other words, my decision 
is unsound and fundamentally flawed because I havent followed the timeline. 
Hed like a new ombudsman to look at the complaint and my decision struck from the 
record. Hes also requesting an extension to 1 July 2021 to reply. 
The letter from the transferee dated 14 February 2020 in respect of himself (and an 
identical letter for Mrs S) pertaining to the sale of assets, made clear to sell down all 
assets except for the M&G Feeder Property, which was to be transferred in-specie. Given the instructions, why wasnt the sale expedited? There was no need for 
Cofunds to check if the transferee would accept the fund. 
Cofunds is in breach of several of its Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) and regulations 
relating  in particular the FCA Consumer Outcomes relating to treating customers 
fairly, such as:  
oT&C 7.10.3, Cofunds clearly didnt agree to accept the instructions, otherwise 
the sale wouldve gone through immediately. 
oT&C 11.1 says Mr S can close the product any time, it doesnt say after 
double checking with the transferee, despite instructions to sell all liquid 
assets and transfer illiquid funds. 
oUnder T&C 3.1.2 the transfer must complete within 30 days and Cofunds 
failed to do this. Theres no mention of ignoring instructions to sell is allowed. 
Failing to sell the liquid assets was a breach of treating customers fairly. 
oAny new instructions were as a result of Cofunds failing to carry out previous 
instructions and mitigate loss. The doctrine of proximate cause identified the 
failure to sell immediately to mitigate any loss by failing to carry out their 
instructions in the first instance. 
oThe T&Cs should be followed within the spirit of FCA guidelines. Cofunds 
havent treated him and Mrs S in good faith and breached its duty of care 
towards them.  
Ive failed to ask myself the basic questions:
oIs there a financial loss? To which the answer is yes. 
oHave Cofunds adopted a different process to mitigate the loss  the answer is 
yes. 
oTherefore, Cofunds is responsible for Mr Ss losses and its their fault.  
Ive referred to a Mr H and Mrs H in my decision, who are these people? Im either 
incompetent, Ive given no attention to detail or Ive cut and pasted the material from 
another decision and therefore Ive no independence. 
Ive misunderstood the complaint. Cofunds didnt sell immediately following his 
instructions. The sale shouldve taken place immediately  to protect him from the 
market going down  therefore hes been treated unfairly, in particular Outcome 
6: Consumers do not face unreasonable post-sale barriers imposed by firms to 
change product, switch provider, submit a claim or make a complaint. 
Hes referenced some cases where complaints have been upheld against Cofunds in 
relation to transfers.
I seem to suggest that its acceptable for Mr S to accept the downside risk whilst 
Cofunds talked to the transferee about the re-registration of illiquid assets. By 
deferring sales of the liquid funds, Mr and Mrs S have lost out financially. 
The investigator and I seem to be unaware of Lord Binghams judgement in R 
(OBrian) v Independent Assessor [2007] 2 AC 312 para 30 about consistency. I 
havent addressed the issue.
Hes demonstrated that another company acted in a timely way, so Cofunds has 
behaved inconsistently. 
Im more concerned about Cofunds than a person who is reliant on limited funds 
during his retirement. Ive given the large organisation the benefit of the doubt. 
Cofunds may have followed its own procedure but nevertheless breached its 
requirement to treat customers fairly. 
Ive shown a patronising tone. 
Not completing the transfer within 30 days shows that Cofunds hasnt acted in his 
best interest. 
Reaching my decision before receiving Mr Ss evidence shows a basic and 
fundamental flaw in my judgement. Ive suggested that my experience is worth more 
than looking at the case with fresh eyes. This has therefore negated my argument as 
specious and unfair.  Cofunds has no further points to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. 
Notwithstanding the points made by Mr S, I dont consider that any new material points have 
been made. Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have been considered 
by me, in my provisional decision (PD). 
Im sorry that Mr S (and Mrs S) have felt the need to complain about the service theyve 
received as a result of me issuing my PD when I did. I did make clear in my PD that I was 
aware that theyd been given until June 2021 to respond to the investigators view once 
theyd received further information. I said:
Im mindful that the investigator has given Mr S until June to respond but I thought it 
would be helpful to make clear my provisional thoughts based on the available 
information that Mr S will no doubt consider and respond to in due course. 
I didnt envisage that my PD  provided in good faith and in the hope that it might help Mr 
and Mrs S to narrow down their objections  would cause upset. My efforts to assist them 
have had the opposite effect to what I intended, and I am sorry about that. I note Mr S says 
that he mightve been able accept what I said, had I not issued a PD and explained things 
differently. 
I apologise for using the wrong abbreviation for Mr S and Mrs S. This was only once, and it 
was an oversight on my behalf, it doesnt mean that Im not paying attention to detail. In any 
case, Im sorry for any upset caused. 
I also apologise if Ive come across in my tone as patronising, thats certainly not my 
intention. I appreciate what Mr S says about my not asking the three fundamental questions, 
but our starting point is to consider whether (or not) a business is at fault before looking at 
financial loss. So, whilst a customer mightve suffered a financial loss, its immaterial if its not 
attributable to a mistake by the business.  
I appreciate what Mr S says about the T&Cs, but with respect I dont agree with his 
interpretation. Im not persuaded that Cofunds  by not doing what he expected it to do  is 
in breach of its T&Cs, or the six FCA Outcomes regarding treating your customers fairly, or 
that it hasnt operated within the spirit of those guidelines. 
So, for example, I dont think by checking to see if the transferee is able to receive/accept 
suspended stock means that Cofunds has introduced an unnecessary step in its process or 
that it hasnt actioned instructions immediately, such that its in breach of the T&Cs and FCA 
regulation. I cant blame Cofunds for checking if the transferee was in a position to be able to 
receive the suspended funds. Despite what Mr S says I dont think this demonstrates that 
Cofunds hasnt complied with FCA Outcome 1. In my opinion it suggests that dealing with 
customers fairly  and ensuring that it can comply with their instructions  is central to its 
corporate culture. As Ive said in my PD, Im aware that a transferor is unlikely to transfer any holdings until the 
transferee has agreed with the valuation of the funds, and confirmed whether it can accept 
the holdings, usually within a specific period. Im aware that this is common industry practice, 
so I cant blame Cofunds for taking this course of action before selling down the funds and 
transferring the cash. 
Im mindful of Mr Ss points about contract law, the doctrine of proximate cause and legal 
judgement, but as Ive explained whilst I must consider the law, regulation and best industry 
practice, Im looking at whats  in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this case.  This is in no way to imply that the law, regulation or common industry practice  
which I acknowledge I must consider  isnt fair or reasonable. I used this phrase as a 
reminder that as we provide an alternative dispute resolution mechanism Im not required to 
interpret points of law and issue a legal judgement. 
I appreciate Mr S feels that my arguments are couched in generalisations rather than 
specifics. But as Ive mentioned in my PD, its not for me to go through every single point 
made, and its not what Im required to do in order to reach a fair and reasonable decision in 
this case. 
 
Im mindful of Mr Ss point about the case of OBrian and others (FC) v Independent 
Assessor. I note the case is about the assessment of compensation by the Secretary of 
State for those who have suffered punishment following a conviction which involved the 
miscarriage of justice, and not about financial services. 
I note paragraph 30 is about an assessors reason for departing from a predecessors 
percentage. I note it states: It is generally desirable that decision-makers, whether 
administrative or judicial, should act in a broadly consistent manner. If they do, reasonable 
hopes will not be disappointed.
However, I also note that paragraph 30 goes on to state: He was not bound, and in my 
opinion was not entitled, to follow a previous decision which he considered erroneous and 
which would yield what he judged to be an excessive award. 
So, paragraph 30, read in context would suggest I ought not to decide a complaint against a 
business, that on balance I dont believe has behaved unreasonably, just because in another 
case on similar facts another ombudsman decided differently. Whilst I acknowledge the need 
to be consistent in our approach, this is not at the cost of considering cases on their 
individual merits. In my opinion, part of consistency is also to consider each case on its 
individual facts. I should also make clear that unlike the courts, an ombudsman isnt bound 
by the decision of another ombudsman.
Whilst I appreciate what Mr S says about other businesses transferring his assets sooner, 
and how that relates to consistency/industry practice, Im only considering the actions of 
Cofunds and the fact another business took less time to transfer assets isnt evidence that 
Cofunds did something wrong because it took longer. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr S doesnt agree with my findings, that doesnt mean Ive not 
considered all the pertinent points. Im sorry if Mr S disagree with that.
In conclusion, despite what Mr S says I still dont think that Cofunds has behaved 
unreasonably by following its transfer process. I also dont think that this means Mr S was 
treated unfairly. Im broadly satisfied that Cofunds still complied with his overall instructions 
to transfer his ISA, and it endeavoured to do so within HMRC guidelines. I dont think that it 
can be held responsible for delays outside of its control.   Im sorry if Mr S still feels that my arguments are specious and unfair. But on the face of the 
evidence, and on balance, I cant uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provision decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman