DRN-4220886
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Zopa Bank Limited trading as Zopa (Zopa) is holding her liable for 
the debt on a loan which she says she neither applied for nor knew about.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, in October 2022 a loan was taken out with Zopa in Mrs Cs name for 
£5,000. Mrs C subsequently got in touch with Zopa to let it know she hadnt applied for the 
loan. Zopa investigated things and ultimately couldnt reach agreement with Mrs C, so she 
referred her complaint about Zopa to us. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and ultimately recommended that Mrs Cs 
complaint should be upheld. Zopa didnt agree, so this case has been passed for an 
Ombudsmans decision as the parties were notified it would be. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as our 
Investigator. Ill explain why.
In this case, my first consideration is: did Mrs C enter into this loan agreement, or was it 
done without her knowledge and consent as she alleges? 
Having considered this carefully, I think its most likely the loan was taken out in Mrs Cs 
name without her knowledge and consent, and she therefore did not enter into the loan 
agreement. I say this because:
Bank records show the loan funds were received into a Halifax account in the joint 
names of Mrs C and her husband, Mr C, on 13 October 2022, and then transferred 
on from there by Mr C to his sole Halifax account. In the normal way, with the loan 
funds paid to a husbands and wifes joint account, and then moved onto the 
husbands sole account, this might indicate they were both aware of the loan 
application and funds. However, I think there are exceptional circumstances in this 
case that persuade me Mrs C wasnt aware of either of these things. 
Weve recently investigated and resolved a separate linked case here brought by 
Mr and Mrs C about their joint Halifax account into which the loan funds were paid. 
This separate case against Halifax did not result in any compensation being paid in 
respect of the loan funds. But during the case, Mr C made the exceptional admission 
that he had provided fake documents and a cover story to Mrs C to trick her into 
thinking the loan must have been taken out in her name by a third party, but that he 
had, in actual fact, taken the loan out in her name himself without her knowledge or 
consent. I am satisfied from the information Ive seen, like our Investigator, that this is 
what most likely happened. 
For the same reasons as our Investigator, Im satisfied its most likely that the selfie 
video and ID to take out the loan were provided to Zopa by Mr C in circumstances 
where hed tricked Mrs C (so she was not aware these would be used by Mr C to 
take out this loan, which she knew nothing about). 
Since Im satisfied Mrs C most likely didnt apply for or agree to this loan, I dont think it 
would be fair for Zopa to hold her to the terms of the loan agreement she never saw or 
agreed to. So, Zopa shouldnt hold Mrs C liable for interest and charges, neither should there 
be a record of the loan on Mrs Cs credit file  so if there currently is, this should be 
removed. 
However, Im also satisfied in this case that it wouldnt be fair for Zopa to pursue Mrs C for 
the outstanding loan funds. I say this because:
As our Investigator explained, in 2019 Mr and Mrs C decided to replace their 
separate sole accounts with joint accounts as a contingency only, so the accounts 
were to be operated in everyday practical usage terms as if they were sole accounts. 
So, whilst the Halifax account into which the loan funds were paid was a joint account 
held by Mr and Mrs C, it didnt really operate like that, but instead in everyday 
practical usage terms as Mr Cs sole account. Mrs C didnt use the account, for 
example in which to deposit her salary, nor did she have active mobile banking or a 
debit card for the account. 
Given what Ive said above, and the fact Ive seen no evidence persuading me 
otherwise, I think Mrs C was neither aware that the loan had been taken out (and in 
her name), nor that it had been paid into the joint account (and then moved on by 
Mr C) until she later discovered the loan application that ultimately led to this 
complaint. So, Im satisfied I cant say Mrs C ought reasonably to have known about 
the funds or that they were from a loan in her name. 
Like our Investigator, based on the evidence Ive seen, it seems to me that if Mrs C 
benefited from the loan proceeds, any benefit would have been inadvertent on her 
part. And I dont think the way in which Mr C appears to have spent the loan 
proceeds (that Mrs C wasnt aware of) resulted in anything tangible that I think it 
would be fair to say Mrs C is benefitting from nor that she could use to repay the loan 
now. In these circumstances, and given everything Ive said above, Im satisfied it 
wouldnt be fair for Zopa to pursue Mrs C for the outstanding loan funds.
Zopa has said that Mrs C hasnt provided any evidence the police are involved, and so it 
wouldnt be looking to write off the loan as per the Investigators recommendation. However, 
I have seen, on another linked case weve investigated at our service, an Action Fraud report 
about Mrs C not having taken out this loan. In any event, Im required to reach an outcome 
that Im satisfied is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, and for the reasons Ive 
explained, Im satisfied Zopa should be required to write off the loan. 
Ive also thought about the monthly repayments that appear to have been made to the loan 
from November 2022 to January 2023. However, these were paid to Zopa from the joint 
account, which as Ive said was effectively being used as Mr Cs sole account. So I dont 
think Zopa needs to refund these to Mrs C.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct Zopa Bank Limited trading as 
Zopa to:
write off the loan and not pursue Mrs C for any repayment of the loan; and
amend Mrs Cs credit file removing any information about the loan and searches.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman