The complaint
Mr N complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC recorded late payment information on his 
credit file after it didnt receive his credit card payment on time. Hes also unhappy with how 
it dealt with fraudulent transactions on his account.
What happened
On 14 September 2019, Mr N made an online payment to his Tesco credit card using his 
debit card, which was issued by a bank that Ill refer to as N in this decision. 
Mr N said that, after making this payment, he saw a message on screen, which informed him 
that his payment to Tesco had been successful. However, he later learned that his payment 
hadnt gone through. Mr N said this happened again the following month when he tried to 
make another payment towards the balance on his Tesco credit card.
As a result of Mr Ns unsuccessful payment in September 2019 he incurred charges and 
interest from Tesco, who also recorded a late payment with credit reference agencies 
(CRAs). So, his credit file was impacted by what happened.
When Mr N complained to Tesco about what happened it didnt uphold his complaint. It told 
him that it wasnt responsible for errors relating to his September payment because it didnt 
collect the payments made to it from other banks. Instead, it said payments were sent to it 
from the bank a customer was making their payment from  in this case, N. And Tesco 
explained that whenever a successful payment had been made, whether online or over the 
telephone, it would send an authorisation code on screen and by email. It said no 
authorisation code was sent to Mr N following Septembers payment. So it didnt think it had 
made an error  and, while it refunded the charges and interest Mr N had incurred, it 
wouldnt remove the late payment marker it had recorded. It did, however, pay him £25 as it 
acknowledged hed experienced poor service when raising his concerns.
Mr N also complained to Tesco about the length of time it had taken it to rectify fraudulent 
transactions on his account. When Tesco responded to this part of Mr Ns complaint it said it 
had refunded the disputed transactions within one month of them being identified as 
fraudulent. And it stated it had removed the interest that hed incurred in connection with the 
fraudulent transactions. So it thought it had acted fairly. But it paid him £25 compensation to 
recognise that it hadnt addressed his concerns about fraudulent transactions in its final 
response letter.  
Being dissatisfied with Tescos response to his complaint Mr N referred it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened and empathised with Mr N. Overall, they thought 
Tesco had acted fairly in refunding the charges and interest Mr N had incurred  both in 
relation his unsuccessful payment and the fraudulent transactions. And they thought the £50 
compensation hed received was appropriate and fair for the shortfalls in service hed 
experienced. But they were persuaded that Mr N wasnt responsible for the unsuccessful 
DRN-1742011payment in September 2019. And so, they recommended Tesco should remove the late 
payment information it recorded with CRAs. But Tesco declined to do so and disagreed with 
our investigators recommendation. So, the matter has come before me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr N experienced here. I can see how strongly he 
feels about his complaint and I appreciate the reason why hes brought it to our service. My 
role is to assess whether I think Tesco made a mistake, or treated Mr N unfairly, such that it 
needs to now put things right.  
Ive read and considered all the information provided by Mr N and Tesco, but Ill concentrate 
my decision on what I think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The evidence Ive seen, on balance, satisfies me that it wasnt Mr Ns fault that his 
payment to Tesco in September 2019 wasnt successful. I dont doubt that he saw a 
notification online after making this payment, which informed him that the funds had debited 
his account with N. Its clear to me that a mistake was made by either Tesco or N because 
the funds werent received by Tesco. But both banks deny responsibility here for what 
happened.
It isnt possible, based on the information I have available here, to determine which bank 
caused the problem with Mr Ns September payment. In view of this, and because Im 
satisfied it isnt Mr Ns fault his payment wasnt receive by Tesco on time, Ive therefore 
thought about the fairest way to resolve this complaint.
Mr N wants Tesco to remove the late payment information it recorded on his credit file. But 
its declined to do so because it said its supplied correct information to CRAs about how Mr 
N had missed a payment. And it stated that removing the late payment marker would 
present an inaccurate depiction of how he was managing his account. Ill explain why I think 
this approach is unfair in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the importance of providing accurate information to the credit reference 
agencies as any potential lender will use it to decide what importance it attaches to the 
information as to whether to lend to a customer or not. But in this case Im satisfied Mr N 
intended to make a timely payment, which was unsuccessful due to circumstances over 
which he had no control. 
Mr Ns payment history with Tesco was satisfactory in that he always made timely payments 
to his account  usually paying his statement amount in full. He had made online payments 
to his Tesco credit card in the past successfully in the same way that hed made this 
payment. And, because he saw a notification on screen after making his September 
payment, he had no reason to think it hadnt been received by Tesco.
While Tesco didnt receive Mr Ns September payment in time Im satisfied in the overall 
circumstances of this complaint that he maintained his account in line with its terms and conditions. In those circumstances, I think its unfair that he should have adverse information 
recorded on his credit file. I accept Tesco has a responsibility to provide an accurate record 
to CRAs. But I dont think the information it recorded accurately reflects how Mr N managed 
his account overall. 
I appreciate he could add a notice of correction to his credit file to explain what happened. 
But I think the fairest way to resolve what happened is for Tesco to remove the late payment 
information it recorded.
Ive seen evidence that Tesco refunded the charges and interest Mr N incurred as a result of 
his unsuccessful payment. Im satisfied its acted fairly in taking this action. And it reflects 
that it wasnt Mr Ns fault that his payment was received late.
Ill turn now to Mr Ns concerns about how Tesco dealt with the fraudulent transactions that 
were made on his account. Tesco identified the transactions in question as fraudulent on 25 
September 2019. And it contacted Mr N immediately to query whether hed authorised them 
 as I would expect a bank to do.
Tescos policy is to investigate fraudulent activity and refund unauthorised transactions 
within 20 working days. Ive seen evidence that Mr Ns account was refunded on 25 October 
2019. This is slightly over the time Tesco endeavours to issue refunds. But Im satisfied that 
in refunding Mr N, and also removing the interest incurred in connection with these 
transactions,  hes been put back in the position hed have been in had no fraudulent 
transactions have been made.
I understand that Tesco cancelled Mr Ns credit card and issued him with a replacement. I 
can understand that must have been frustrating and inconvenient to Mr N. But I dont think 
Tesco could have prevented further fraud unless it took such action. So, I cant fairly find it 
made an error here.
I can see Tesco paid Mr N £50 for the shortfalls in service he experienced after raising his 
complaint. Having thought very carefully about the impact all of this had on him, Im satisfied 
that the compensation already paid by Tesco is a fair and reasonable resolution to this 
complaint. Its in line with awards made by this service in comparable circumstances. So, I 
wont be ordering Tesco to pay any more.
Putting things right
For the reasons previously given, I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint is for Tesco 
to remove the late payment information it recorded following the difficulties Mr N experienced 
in making September's payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Tesco Personal Finance Plc to 
remove the late payment information it recorded on Mr Ns credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.Julie Robertson
Ombudsman