DRN-3603844
The complaint
Mr F complains about charges that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied when he returned a car he acquired under a hire agreement (HA).
What happened
Mr F took out the HA for a new car in November 2017. The agreement was due to end three
years later and he returned the car to a main dealership for the brand near the end of 
October 2020. About a week later MBFS sent Mr F an invoice for damage to three alloys. Mr 
F didnt receive this but he did get a payment reminder in late December 2020. He thinks 
MBFS applied charges without any real explanation or justification. He says any damage 
present was within tolerance - as he noted on the appraisal form at the time.
MBFS supplied a video of the car and Mr F wanted to know when and where this was taken
 because he returned the car outdoors and the video footage was recorded inside. He 
asked for date stamped evidence and he also wanted to know which department made the 
charging decision and why. He feels he was pushed from pillar to post for months and his 
comments and concerns were ignored. He says managers said they would call him back but 
didnt and people appeared to investigate complaints about themselves and reach 
favourable outcomes.
MBFS says the car was inspected in accordance with its Vehicle Return Standards (VRS).
And the appraisal form and video show damage to three alloys - in that scuffs, chips and 
scratches present exceed 50mm  so charges of £330 were properly applied. MBFS accepts 
Mr F should have received better service at times however and it offered to reduce the 
outstanding balance to £180.50 by way of compensation.
Mr F didnt accept the offer. He says he spent around 50 hours trying to achieve a fair 
resolution but MBFS failed to answer specific questions and continued to send requests for 
payment after he was told his account would be placed on hold. Then MBFS made him feel 
pressured to pay within three days and ignored him when he explained he was vulnerable at 
the time he made the payment. He feels hes been treated very unfairly and MBFS should 
pay more compensation.
Mr F referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators considered the evidence, 
including the VRS and relevant industry guidance from the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA). Shes satisfied the BVRLA guidance allows for a second
inspection in this situation and she thinks it was made clear that this could happen in the
VRS. She says scratches on all four alloys were noted when the car was appraised by the
dealer and whilst Mr F wrote within tolerance on the appraisal form, theres also a note
from the dealer saying "customer is stating within tolerance at no point did we confirm this.
MBFS also supplied an email from the dealer - dated the same day - that says the dealer
didnt agree that the damage was acceptable.
Having reviewed video footage that MBFS supplied, the investigator was satisfied this was
taken after Mr F returned the car. She acknowledged some of the measurements in the
appraisal form dont seem to correlate with damage charged for. But, based on the video
evidence, shes satisfied the damage charged for is present and goes beyond fair wear and
tear under the relevant guidance. And she wasnt persuaded its unreasonable for MBFS to
apply the charges.
The investigator considered the contact Mr F had with MBFS as well. She wasnt persuaded
that correspondence regarding payment was unreasonable or intended to apply undue
pressure. Shes satisfied that call handlers also explained this and she thought MBFS
generally did what wed expect when Mr F explained he felt vulnerable and asked about
relevant policies. And, if Mr F had notified a specific need at the time - which he didnt -
MBFS could have put something in place to support him. The investigator recognised Mr F
found it frustrating that MBFS didnt supply all the information he wanted and, when it did,
this sometimes took time. Shes satisfied however that MBFS acknowledged errors were
made. And she thinks reducing the balance owed to £180.50 is fair and reasonable overall.
She didnt recommend MBFS should have to do more.
Mr F remained unhappy and he asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. He
wants to know why the dealership said charges had nothing to do with them yet MBFS de-
fleet department referred him back to the dealer if he wanted to dispute the appraisal. He
acknowledges MBFS may possess a vulnerable customer policy but he feels the call handler
he spoke to seemed unaware and refused to consider this when asked. Mr F also thinks it is 
unfair that MBFS didnt have to respond to his complaint points within any particular 
timescale. And he considers the investigator failed to address MBFSs failures to provide 
information that he requested multiple times, within a reasonable time - which suggests our 
service is biased. He says theres been no consideration of the time and effort he had to 
spend to get MBFS to investigate - and the fact he might never have needed to involve this 
service if MBFS had simply provided information within timescales allowed.
Having considered the available evidence I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. My 
reasons were a bit different to the investigators however and Id reviewed additional 
evidence. I thought it was fair to issue a provisional decision and allow the parties to make 
further submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. And I sent my 
provisional decision to the parties on 6 July 2022. Ive set out my provisional findings below 
and this forms part of my final decision. 
 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I can see that Mr F feels strongly about what happened. He has provided a number of very 
detailed submissions. And Ive spoken to him as well - to ensure that I have a clear
understanding of his complaint. I thank Mr F for the time hes taken to explain his concerns.
I want to assure both parties if I dont address every single point thats been raised thats not
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to
us carefully. However, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is key to
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome overall. The rules of our service  which provides
alternative dispute resolution thats free for consumers - allow me to do this.
Mr F brings his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service because he hired this car
from MBFS under a regulated finance agreement and this service is able to consider
complaints arising out of that agreement. I should make it clear however that Im not a
regulator. Its not within my remit to tell MBFS how to operate on a day to day basis. Its notup to me to punish a financial business or any individual employee. And Im unable to hold
MBFS responsible for the actions of third parties.
My job here is to consider the evidence provided by both parties, without taking sides, and
decide what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome, in all of the circumstances of this
particular complaint. In doing so, I must have regard to relevant law and industry guidance,
amongst other things. And Im satisfied that includes the BVRLA guidance here.
Broadly speaking, I think Mr Fs complaint falls into two parts. He considers it is wrong that
damage charges were applied when he returned this car and hes most unhappy with the
response he got from MBFS when he complained.
Were damage charges properly applied ?
I think the HA makes it reasonably clear that Mr F was obliged to keep this car in good repair
and condition and return it in line with the VRS. I can see Mr F signed the agreement to
accept the terms and conditions. He also confirmed (when we spoke) that he was aware of
the VRS specifically. Mr F told me he accepts there was some damage present when he
dropped the car off at dealership but he considers this was within tolerance and he doesnt
understand why some other damage that the dealer highlighted wasnt charged for. I think
this contributed to Mr Fs feeling that MBFS applied damage charges somewhat arbitrarily.
And I have no doubt it was frustrating for him to receive a bill for damage when, as far as
hes concerned, this car was returned in acceptable condition.
Like the investigator, I have considered the VRS as well as the BVRLA guide. Insofar as its
relevant the VRS provides that scuff chips and scratches of more than 25mm are
unacceptable and the BVRLA guidance says scuff marks up to 50mm on the total
circumference of the alloys are acceptable but any damage to the wheel spokes, fascia or
hub of the alloy wheel isnt. I have also seen details of the appraisal that was carried out
when the car was returned and a video showing the outside and some of the inside of the
car.
MBFS charged Mr F for damage to three alloys because it considers the damage present
exceeds relevant tolerances. Im satisfied that the dealer noted damage on these three
alloys was present in the appraisal form. And I can see scratches and scuffs that exceed the
relevant standards in the video footage. I think it look as if the wheel spokes of all three
alloys are scuffed beyond 50mm over the total circumference meaning the damage is
outside of fair wear and tear of both the VRS and BVRLA guidance. Im satisfied that
damage present is chargeable and Im not persuaded that it was unreasonable of MBFS to
raise the charges it did.
I appreciate Mr F feels frustrated that MBFS wouldnt discuss the charges with him and I 
understand he wanted to speak to the person who made the decision to apply the charges.
But MBFS isnt obliged to do this. I think Mr F was provided with enough information to make
him aware of the standards that the car had to meet on return and he has confirmed that he
was aware there was damage present at that stage. I can see the dealer noted the presence
of this damage on the appraisal form. And I understand Mr F is disappointed the dealer that
didnt make it clear what (if any) damage would be charged for at the time, but Im not
persuaded it was the dealers job to do so.
I think the dealers role here was to look over the car and note any obvious damage on the
form. It wasnt up to the dealer however to say if this was definitely within the return
standards - or work out any related charges. I consider that was made fairly clear to Mr F in
the appraisal form that he signed which says while every attempt is made to identity all 
damage on inspection .all vehicles are inspected on return to [MBFS] and any additional 
damage charges will be promptly notified. I think the dealers role was to flag up any obvious signs of damage - as Ive said  and it was then up to MBFS to decide what, if any, 
damage was chargeable.
I can see the appraiser highlighted damage to all four alloys as well as some damage to the
bodywork in three different places - on the appraisal form. The measurements on the alloys
range from what looks like 2-4mm. Our investigator thought this seemed inconsistent with
the damage shown on the video  which is more extensive - and I agree. Like the
investigator, I cant explain why the appraiser recorded the damage in the way that she did
on the form. I think MBFS acknowledges that the appraisal form could be clearer (in an email
in mid-February 2021)  when it suggested Mr F might wish to query things with the dealer. 
But, ultimately, Im satisfied from the video footage that the alloys exhibit damage thats 
outside of the relevant standards and exceeds fair wear and tear.
I appreciate Mr F considers that all the damage present was within tolerance  as he
indicated on the appraisal form. He has also mentioned that the damage charged for may
have occurred after he dropped the car off (which is why he wanted time stamp of the video).
Ive seen an email from the dealer that says the video was taken the same day the car was 
dropped off. Looking at the video, I can see 38,772 miles displayed on the odometer - which 
is the same as the mileage recorded on the appraisal form. I'm satisfied, on balance, that the 
video footage was likely recorded the same day Mr F returned the car, soon after he 
dropped it off. And, looking at the mileage, the timeline of events, the damage noted on the 
appraisal form and the nature of damage itself, Im satisfied the damage charged for was 
probably present when the car was returned.
I understand Mr F considers that MBFS acknowledged (in an email) that the relevant 
damage isnt visible on the video but Im not persuaded thats the case. I can see the writer 
said I can confirm the markings on the appraisal, [relate] to the supporting key found just 
below the image of the vehicle and is to highlight damage on the vehicle, this is supported by 
the charges later raised and the supporting video. Whilst I do consider you cannot see it in 
this evidence. I can confirm they are reporting chargeable damage against your Vehicle 
Return Standards (VRS) on this document as it is to report damage during this process as 
per all dealership returned vehicles. I think the reference to this evidence means the 
appraisal form itself. And Im satisfied the writer meant to acknowledge that it may not be 
clear from the marking on the appraisal form but the damage reported is chargeable.
I realise Mr F would like to know why only three of the seven points of damage noted by the
dealer were actually charged for. I wouldnt expect MBFS to necessarily set out why it hasnt
charged for some damage in this situation. I dont think its unusual for a hirer to give a
customer the benefit of the doubt if a dent or scuff is on the edge of being unacceptable.
That may be what MBFS meant (in the email in early May 2021) when it said one dent, for
example, was deemed within tolerance. And I cant reasonably criticise MBFS for not
applying charges where it didnt think damage was sufficiently clear.
I appreciate Mr F might have preferred to be told about any charges when he dropped the
car off but thats not part of MBFSs return process. Taking all the available evidence into
account, Im satisfied that the damage charged for here was present and its chargeable
under relevant standards. I think MBFS is entitled to be compensated for this failure to return
the car in line with obligations set out in the HA. Im not persuaded that the amount charged
seems unreasonable. And I cant fairly find MBFS should not have applied these charges.
Did MBFS do anything wrong?
Mr F has gone to some trouble to explain what he wanted from MBFS after he complained
and why he feels so let down. I hope hell understand that I cant set everything out in the
same level of detail here. Im satisfied that the parties are both familiar with what happenedand the investigator has addressed this in a fair amount of detail in her correspondence as
well.
As the investigator has explained, MBFS is required to provide a response to Mr Fs
complaint within eight weeks. I can see Mr F complained to MBFS near the end of 
December 2020 and MBFS provided responses in early February 2021 and mid-April 2021. 
This is within the normal time frame and its what wed usually expect to happen. If Mr F was
unhappy with MBFSs response, its then open to him to refer the matter to our service  in 
the way that he did.
Ive read the correspondence between Mr F and MBFS and Ive also listened to the
recordings of a number of calls Mr F had with MBFS employees. For broadly the same
reasons as our investigator, Im not persuaded that MBFS sought to place undue pressure
on Mr F to pay the damage charges. I dont think it was unreasonable for MBFS set a time
limit for payment and explain what could happen if payment wasnt made within that time.
And I dont think MBFS treated Mr F unfairly when he explained that he was in a vulnerable
position when he made the payment. Im satisfied a call handler confirmed that MBFS has a
policy for vulnerable customers and asked the sort of questions wed expect - in an effort to
see what assistance Mr F might need. I appreciate Mr F feels MBFS should have done more
for him earlier. But I cant see that he raised this at the time he made the payment so I cant
fairly criticise MBFS for that.
I understand Mr F found it frustrating that MBFS didnt answer all of the queries he raised
and, when it did supply additional information, this took some time. MBFS isnt obliged to
supply answers to every query that a customer raises nor is it required to let a customer to
speak directly to a specific individual. I can see that MBFS accepts however that it didnt
always provide the level of service it should have. Amongst other things, MBFS has
acknowledged that people didnt always do what they said they would and Mr F was
provided with incorrect information at times. Mr F feels this the result of all this is he had to
go to a lot of time and effort to get a better understanding of why charges were applied. And
its clear that MBFS accepts it could have handled things better.
I have sympathy for Mr F and I understand his frustration. But Im satisfied that MBFS has
apologised and I think the offer to reduce the charges by about £150, as compensation for
any upset and inconvenience caused, seems reasonable in all the circumstances. I realise
that Mr F doesnt think this is enough and he feels it doesnt take into account every issue
that caused him to experience trouble and upset, in particular. Working out whats
appropriate in this sort of situation isnt a scientific exercise, however. I have thought
carefully about what happened. I think MBFS has done enough to put things right overall -
insofar as thats reasonably possible. And Im not persuaded that I can fairly require MBFS
to do anything else.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
submissions by 20 July 2022. I explained that Id review all the evidence available after that 
date and make my final decision. The parties havent provided any additional comments or 
new evidence and I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is that I think the offer Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited made to reduce the damage charges (as set out above) is fair in all the 
circumstances and I cant reasonably require it to do more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman