DRN-3942997
The complaint
Mr M complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
He says that NatWest didnt do enough to protect him when he became the victim of a scam 
and would like NatWest to refund the money he has lost. 
What happened
Mr M had begun an online relationship, after building up trust, this individual asked Mr M if 
he had an interest in learning to trade in cryptocurrency.
Mr M was persuaded to invest and purchased crypto, which he believed was then 
transferred onto a trading platform where he could see his investment - although this 
platform was fake.
The payment journey began with a different bank, but Mr M then moved funds from a loan 
he had taken out with this bank to NatWest and began making payments from his NatWest 
account.
Mr M has lost a total of £40,535 from his NatWest account.
Once he realised he had been scammed, Mr M complained to NatWest, but it didnt uphold 
his complaint. He then brought his complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. 
Mr M asked from an Ombudsman to make a final decision, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as 
out Investigator. I know that this will be very disappointing for Mr M. He has lost a large 
amount of money and has been tricked by someone he trusted, and I know that this has had 
a huge impact on him both financially and emotionally.
It isnt in dispute here that Mr M has been scammed  he was contacted under the premise 
of starting a relationship, but in reality, this was a ruse. He parted with large sums of money 
while being reassured by this individual that it was a legitimate investment. Then when it 
came to making a withdrawal, Mr M was allowed to take a small withdrawal, but when the 
time came to take out larger sums, excuses were made, and more funds were apparently 
required to do so. The scammer then cut contact with Mr M. 
Did Mr M authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr M isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. Accordingly, Ive considered 
whether Mr M authorised the payments in question here.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr M did authorise the payments in question here. I 
understand that Mr M had been tricked by the scammer into instructing NatWest to make the 
payments  but while Mr M never intended the payments to go to the scammers, this doesnt 
change the fact that he authorised them and is therefore presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance.
Recovery of the payments Mr M made
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect NatWest to do anything further 
until it had been notified there was a scam.
Mr M made payments to the scammer by debit card and by online transfer. The only 
recourse for potential recovery of the funds for the payments made by debit card would be 
via the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are resolved 
between card issuers (here, NatWest) and the merchant (here, the sellers of the crypto that 
was purchased).
But I dont think its likely that a chargeback request would ever have been successful. This 
is because the sellers of the crypt are legitimate crypto exchanges and provided the services 
that Mr M requested of them  which was the purchase of crypto. The subsequent transfer of 
the crypto to a different wallet is therefore a separate matter  and so a successful 
chargeback would never have been possible  and so I dont think that these payments were 
recoverable once they had been made.
Similarly, while NatWest could also have asked the receiving bank of the online transfers to 
return the money, the services had already been provided, so I think that it would have likely 
refused the request.
Should NatWest have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that NatWest reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all the payments Mr M made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss before 
it happened.
Mr M authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. That said, as a matter of good industry practice, NatWest should have taken proactive steps 
to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, Ive carefully considered what this means for Mr M and the payments in question here.
NatWest contacted Mr M twice when he was making the payments. The first time it 
contacted him, it only asked him to confirm that it was him making the payment  but the 
second time it spoke with Mr M, it asked him specific questions about the payment he was 
making, and gave him a meaningful warning about crypto scams too. But Mr M didnt divulge 
important information to NatWest during this call  including that someone else was 
instructing him to make the payments. Mr M had also already received a similar warning 
from his other bank too by the time these payments had been made. But he still continued to 
make the payments. 
So, Im satisfied that NatWest didnt miss an opportunity to prevent the payments from being 
made.
I do have a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr M now finds himself in. He has been 
the victim of a cruel and sophisticated scam. However, the loss suffered is ultimately caused 
by the scammers, and not NatWest. And I cant ask NatWest to refund this loss when I think 
it provided meaningful warnings to Mr M, and he chose to continue making the payments.
 My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman