DRN-2925108
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the way Revolut Ltd handled some e-money transfers she requested.  
What happened
Miss S has explained that she was due to travel abroad on 9 July 2019 and return back to 
the UK the next day. So, prior to travelling, she arranged, through Revolut, to transfer money 
from an account she held with a bank in the UK (which Ill call bank account A), to her 
Revolut account. In total, the money she looked to transfer was £310  made in three 
separate transfers  which were £200, £50 and £60.  
A transfer of these three amounts was completed successfully  with this £310 entering the 
Revolut account for Miss S to use, as she had requested. So, there was no issue with this. 
But a technical error occurred  which meant that the three amounts which were debited 
from bank account A were taken for a second time. This meant that once the technical error 
had happened, £620 has been transferred out of bank account A. Miss S said that because 
an extra £310 had been taken from bank account it entered its overdraft facility, and interest 
was incurred on this, that she would have to pay. 
And, Miss S said the removal of an additional £310 from bank account A had additional 
implications for her. Miss S noted that because bank account A was left with no money, she 
didnt have the funds she planned to use for expenses during her trip. And so, she had 
experienced additional trouble, upset and inconvenience both in the UK and abroad.
Because Miss S was unhappy, she raised a complaint with Revolut. She said Revolut should 
have contacted her to tell her about the duplicate funds that had been taken, rather than her 
having to reach out to it. And, Miss S didnt think Revolut had worked to return the money 
quickly enough, leaving her with the above difficulties.
Revolut accepted there had been a technical error with one of its partners. And this partner 
was the one who processed the transfers. Revolut said it wasnt able to tell Miss S the funds 
had come out of her account twice, because the error was on its partners side. But it said 
that as soon it was aware of the problem, it worked with its partner to return the incorrect 
transfers back to the original accounts. And in Miss S case, the duplicate funds were 
returned efficiently, with the return having been processed on 9 July 2019.
When speaking to Miss S on its online chat function, Revolut said that if Miss S had incurred 
any interest as a result of the duplicate payments taking her into an overdraft facility, she 
should send it her bank statement showing this charge, and it would refund this. And as part 
of its complaint response, it offered Miss S £100 compensation in recognition of the mistake 
that had occurred, and a refund of three months of her premium account subscription fee, 
which was £20.97.
Miss S remained unhappy with Revoluts response. So, she referred her complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought Revolut had taken fair and 
reasonable action to resolve Miss S concerns. She noted the terms and conditions of the 
account said that Revolut couldnt be held responsible for an error caused by a third party, 
such as its partner. 
But she considered that Revolut had acted fairly by working with its partner to get the funds 
returned quickly. And she thought the offer of £120.97 in total was fair and reasonable 
compensation for the error.
Miss S didnt agree. She said Revolut had a responsibility to let her know the payment had 
been debited twice, rather than her having to contact it. And, she didnt think the 
compensation offered was enough to reflect the trouble and upset caused to her. 
Because Miss S remained in disagreement, this complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, detailing my thoughts. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending on upholding this complaint. But my reasoning as to why 
is somewhat different to that of our investigator. So, Ive explained what my current thoughts 
are, and why, below. 
Ive reviewed a bank statement Miss S has provided for bank account A, running from the 
beginning of July 2019, to just after its explained the duplicate payments occurred. On doing 
so, I can see that duplicate payments of £200, £50 and £60 were removed from this account 
on 8 and 9 July 2019. And, looking at the balance of the account at this time, Im aware this 
did take the account into its overdraft.
Revolut also accepts this happened. And has said the reason the duplicate payments were 
taken, was because of a technical error with its partner. Given that it is accepted that an 
error occurred, whether as a result of its partner or not, Ive just needed to consider whether 
Revolut acted fairly and reasonably when looking to put things right. And, based on what Ive 
seen, I think it did. 
Ive been able to review conversations between Miss S and Revolut that took place on its 
online chat facility. And I can see that Miss S contacted Revolut on 9 July 2019 about the 
duplicated transactions. When speaking to Miss S, Revolut immediately apologised for the 
problem, explained it was aware of the issue, and confirmed it was working with its partner to 
put the problem right. And later that same day, when again talking to Miss S, it confirmed the 
payments had already been refunded to her on its end, so should appear back into her 
account shortly.
 
I can appreciate why Miss S is unhappy the duplicate transactions happened in the first 
place, and of course, taking the funds twice shouldnt have happened. On recognising the 
error with its partner, I would expect Revolut to look to remedy the problem quickly. And Im 
satisfied it did. The refunds were processed and returned within a day of the problem 
occurring. 
In addition to this, Revolut did recognise that putting Miss S into her overdraft for that period 
may have caused her to incur interest on bank account A. And so, it did let Miss S know that 
she could provide a bank statement showing any interest that occurred as a result of the 
duplicate transfers and confirmed it would refund this interest to her. I do think this was a fair action to take, given that if Miss S had incurred interest in respect of this, it would have put 
her at a financial loss. 
I havent seen that Miss S has provided any bank statement to Revolut, showing interest 
charged as a result of the duplicate payments, or that any interest charged goes over and 
above the compensation it has now offered her. So, I dont intend on requiring Revolut to do 
anything more here.
In terms of the compensation offered to Miss S, Revolut has offered a total of £120.97  with 
£20.97 of this being a refund of three months subscription fee. Ive thought carefully about 
whether this is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances. And I think it is.
I appreciate Miss S feels that Revolut should have reached out to her to explain some 
duplicate funds had been taken, rather than her having to contact it. But, Miss S contacted 
Revolut so shortly after the issue occurred, that she was aware of the problem quickly, and 
what was being done to sort it. So, I dont think the fact she contacted Revolut in the first 
instance, rather than the other way around is in itself unfair or means further compensation 
would be reasonable in this case.  
As above, Im also satisfied that as soon as Revolut was aware of the problem it did quickly 
look to resolve the matter and returned the funds the same day. So, it took as much action 
as it could, to ensure the problem was resolved. And the problem was a short term one. 
It is clear from the online chat history, including Miss S explanation about problems with 
onward travel from the airport, that she was distressed and inconvenienced for the short time 
before the problem was resolved. And taking into account the above, I think £120.97 
compensation reasonably recognises the trouble and upset caused during this time. So, I 
dont intend on requiring Revolut to pay anything more.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent received any comments or evidence from either party, that changes my thoughts on 
the outcome of the case, or the reasoning around this outcome. As such, my final decision 
remains the same as noted in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied Revolut Ltds offer as detailed below 
is fair;
£100 compensation;
Three months refund of the £6.99 subscription;
Its my understanding that Revolut has already paid this to Miss S. But if it hasnt already 
done so, it should do so.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman