DRN-3140109
The complaint
Mr O is represented. His complaint is about the sale of a REDX Pharma PLC shareholding 
(the holding) from an execution-only Stocktrade account (provided/administered by Alliance 
Trust Savings Limited (ATSL)) he held within his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
Mr O and his representative mainly say:
The holding was sold, in September 2020, without his knowledge and without his 
consent, he learnt about it during a routine account valuation in November that year.
The sale resulted from a takeover of REDX Pharma PLC (REDX) by Redmile Group 
LLC (Redmile) at the time and from a share purchase offer by the latter. Contrary to 
ATSLs claim that notice(s) about the offer and the contract note for the sale were 
sent to his representative, they received neither, and the same applies to him. If both 
were sent at all, it was irresponsible for ATSL to have done so by ordinary post, such 
important communications ought, at least, to have been sent by registered post.
ATSL was also wrong to have set acceptance of the offer (and the sale of the 
holding) as the default step in the absence of a response/instruction from him. The 
execution-only basis for the account meant, fundamentally, that it acted only upon his 
instruction (or that of his representative, who had authority to deal in the account). In 
the absence of such instruction it should have taken no action. Furthermore, 
Redmiles share purchase pursuit was never compulsory and the REDX shares that it 
was not able to purchase have, since the takeover, continued to be listed and traded.
The market value of the shares in the holding increased after the sale. Based on the 
value the holding would have had around the time of the complaints referral to this 
service Mr O had incurred lost growth of almost £22,000. He seeks reinstatement of 
the holding, as though it was never sold.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She mainly said:
The balance of evidence is that two notices about the share purchase offer were sent 
to Mr Os representative on 20 April and 18 August 2020. Copies shared with this 
service show they were correctly addressed. It is difficult to say why the 
representative might not have received them, but that would not be ATSLs fault, and 
their non-receipt does not amount to evidence that they were not sent.
The terms of the Stocktrade account provided that where an offer was unconditional, 
ATSL will give notice of how it intended to deal with it and if it did not hear from the 
accountholder within the required timeframe it would accept the offer. In Mr Os case, 
there is evidence that the offer was unconditional and that ATSL did not hear from his 
representative within the required timeframe, so its action in accepting the offer and 
selling the holding was consistent with the terms of the account.
Mr O and his representative disagree with this outcome. They retain their core points and, in 
addition, they say  that it is a very odd coincidence for the two notices and the contract note 
to all go astray in the post, especially in the context of no other account related 
communications ever previously going astray in the post; that the investigator did not 
address the matter of the missing contract note (and Mr O being deprived of it despite the 
sale); that it was wrong to apply a negative affirmation approach to the offer, its acceptance 
should have been based only on an express positive affirmation from/on behalf of Mr O, as 
opposed to assuming consent in the absence of his response; and that such an approach 
might have a basis where there is a need to avoid the risk of an accountholder being left with 
shares for which there was no active market, but that was not the case in the offer relevant 
to the holding.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the points made by Mr O and his representative. However, on balance, they do 
not amount to a successful argument in the matter about acceptance of the offer and sale of 
the holding. Also on balance, I am not persuaded that ATSL was wrong to treat the offer and 
the sale of the holding as it did. With regards to the communication of notice(s) about the 
offer and of the contract note for the sale, it is reasonable to say they could have been sent 
by registered post  as Mr O and his representative have argued  however, this does not 
automatically mean that ATSL was wrong to send them by regular post as it did. On balance, 
I am not persuaded that it did something wrong in this respect.
I have reached the above conclusions for the following reasons:
The terms for the account included/include provisions for communications. On page 
13, and for most correspondence, an accountholder was/is given the choice between 
paperless/secure messaging communications and paper-based communications.  I 
have not seen evidence that Mr Os account was set up for the former and he does 
not appear to have argued in that respect. With regards to the latter, the terms say 
communications will be sent in the post. I consider that this was meant as regular 
post, because page 14 proceeds to make a distinction where documents of title are 
concerned, whereby it says such documents will be sent by registered post (UK). 
The offer notice and contract note were not documents of title, so the terms allowed 
for them to be sent by regular post. These were the terms on which Mr O held the 
account. I acknowledge his present views on the matter, but the fact remains that if, 
as I address next, the notice and contract note were sent by regular post, that was 
done in line with the terms for the account and was not a wrongdoing.
On balance, I am persuaded that the offer notice in April 2020 and the updated notice 
in August 2020 were sent to Mr Os representative, by regular post. Electronic copies 
of both have been shared with us. I note Mr Os point that they are versions which 
automatically show any date on which they are generated/printed, but that appears to 
reflect their electronic format. On balance, and in the absence of evidence to the 
contrary, it is conceivable and reasonable to conclude that the notices would have 
been issued to him/his representative as a matter of course (and as a matter of 
standard business where a corporate action related to the account is ongoing), that 
they were issued to him/his representative in this context and that the correctly 
addressed electronic format records/copies that have been shared with us add further ground to this finding. If his representative did not receive them ATSL cannot 
reasonably be held responsible for any postal issue that caused that, and their non-
receipt does not establish that they were not sent. The same findings apply to the 
contract note, for the same reasons. I understand why Mr O and his representative 
consider the notion of all three documents getting lost in the post as an odd 
coincidence, but this does not establish that they were not sent.
Like the investigator, I too refer to the terms for the account (also on page 14) with 
regards to corporate actions that affect investments in an account. They include  
If we ask for your instructions in relation to a Corporate Action and do not receive 
instructions by the date we specify, we will take no action or will take only such action 
as is necessary for you to receive the default option where one is available. [my 
emphasis]
 in respect of a takeover and company reorganisation, if an offer is declared 
unconditional we will contact you about how we propose to deal with the offer. If we 
do not hear from you within the required timeframe, we shall accept the offer.
The updated offer notice of 18 August 2020 confirmed that  the offer has become 
Wholly Unconditional, any clients who wish to reject the offer will become Minority 
Share Holders in an unlisted company. It gave Mr O/his representative a deadline 
(26 August 2020) to confirm either acceptance or rejection of the offer, and gave 
notice that the default step in the absence of a response would be acceptance of the 
offer. It is undisputed that there was no response to the offer, and I repeat my finding 
above that if Mr Os representative did not receive the notice ATSL cannot 
reasonably be blamed for that. 
A copy of the relevant, and detailed, takeover document has been shared with us.  
Mr Os representative has argued that there was no compulsory context to the offer, 
and that it is possible (or probable) that ATSL mistakenly thought the opposite was 
the case (as brokers did at the time, which prompted a clarification notice from REDX 
on 20 August 2020 confirming that there was no compulsory purchase). Pages 18 
and 19 of the takeover document deal with this. The possibility of a compulsory 
purchase is reflected but, as Mr Os representative says, no such context was 
confirmed at the time. 
However, page 19 clarifies facts related to the argument that has been made about 
the unsold shares continuing to be listed and traded after the offer/takeover. This 
appears to be an argument based on the benefit of hindsight. At the time, and as 
confirmed on page 19, listing of the shares was not guaranteed. The document says 
Redmile intended to maintain a listing (on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM)) 
after the offer but should AIM admission be declined it intended to  investigate 
whether a listing on an alternative exchange or establishing an alternative trading 
facility would provide material benefits to shareholders through the continued ability 
to trade their shares. This supports the updated notice of 18 August 2020 in its 
reference to those who reject the offer being left with shares in an unlisted company.
The above is relevant to Mr Os and his representatives criticism of the default 
position set in the offer notice. They say it amounted to negative affirmation, and that 
such an approach would have been intended for circumstances in which investors 
were to be protected from the risk of being left with shares for which there was no 
active market, but that was not the case at the time. As I have addressed above, that 
appears to have been the case at the time. There was no confirmation of a market listing (at the time) and the takeover document refers to exploring alternatives if 
maintaining or having a listing on the AIM did not happen. 
Furthermore, I consider the argument to be unduly narrow. In broad terms, the 
approach existed to ensure that where a corporate action altered the nature of a 
holding the investor needed to expressly affirm that s/he consented to the 
new/incoming characteristics. In Mr Os case, the idea of doing nothing in the 
absence of a response, would have meant accepting, not the purchase offer but a 
changed shareholding (one that was no longer listed and, it appears, one that would 
have had a minority status). It is arguable that he potentially could then have 
complained that, in the absence of his instruction, he had been left with a different 
type of holding that he never consented to. In contrast, the default option of selling 
his original holding in the absence of his instruction was arguably safer as that, at 
least, avoided such a scenario  and it could also be said that if he wished to retain 
the holding despite the proposed change to its characteristics, his expression of that 
wish would reasonably have been expected, as opposed to ATSL making an 
assumption of that wish.
In addition, the approach applied by ATSL was the approach set out in the terms for 
the account. In a takeover corporate event with an unconditional offer, if the 
accountholder did not respond to notice it was to accept the offer. These were the 
circumstances in Mr Os case, and ATSL acted in line with the terms for the account.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman