DRN-1724532
 
The complaint
Mrs S complains that esure Insurance Limited didnt remove her niece from her motor 
insurance policy when it renewed. She wants a full refund of her premiums. Mrs S is 
represented in this matter by her husband.   
What happened
Mrs S added her niece to her policy as a named driver to help with family circumstances. 
She said she told esure that this was only to be until the end of the policy year. But the policy 
renewed with the niece still on it and Mrs S paid a higher premium. Mrs S was unhappy with 
this and that esure took her premium from her husbands account without his permission. 
esure said Mrs S had wanted her niece added as a permanent driver. It said it had sent the 
renewal documents and it was for Mrs S to read these and check they were correct. But Mrs 
S said she didnt receive these documents. esure refunded its administration charge for 
removing the niece from the policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mrs S 
had told esure that she only wanted her niece on the policy up until renewal. But he thought 
esure had sent the renewal documents, with the niece included as a named driver and that 
Mrs S should have checked and corrected them. He thought esure had renewed the policy 
and collected the premium according to the policy terms and conditions. He thought it didnt 
need to make any refunds. 
Mrs S replied that shed instructed esure to remove her niece from the policy at the years 
end. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs S and Mr S feel frustrated that they paid for cover that they didnt 
require and that esure wont give them a refund.
Mrs S told us she wanted her niece added to her policy for a month to meet family needs. 
Ive listened to the call Mrs S made to esure. She said she wanted her niece added 
permanently for the rest of the policy year, three months, and then on the renewed policy. 
Then she checked the cost of adding her niece for the renewal and decided to leave this 
until shed discussed it with her.  esure said she would be added for the duration of the 
policy, which was agreed. The call ended with Mr S saying that he wanted his niece 
removed from the policy at renewal and esure acknowledged this. 
So I think its agreed that Mrs S wanted her niece added to the policy only until the end of 
the policy year. esure added her as a permanent additional driver. But when the policy automatically renewed, it was done on the last terms used. esure said it expected Mrs S to 
call it when shed checked the policy renewal documents if any changes were needed. 
As the investigator has explained, our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the 
insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Ive seen the renewal documents that esure sent to Mrs S a month before the policy 
renewal. Mrs S said she didnt receive these. But I cant say that esure made a mistake as 
Ive seen evidence that they were sent and the address is the correct one. 
The renewal documents included Mrs Ss niece as a named driver. Its esures practice to 
offer renewals on the last terms used. I dont think this is unusual or unreasonable. So I cant 
say it was wrong for it to have added her to the policy. The documents ask Mrs S to check 
that they are accurate and that they meet her needs. I think it was for Mrs S to check them 
and call esure if she wanted her niece removed from the policy. 
But unfortunately the policy renewed with the niece added and three monthly payments were 
taken from Mr Ss account before this was noticed. Mr S thought esure should have asked 
his permission to do this. But the renewal documents say that the policy will renew and 
esure will collect the direct debit from the same account it holds. I think this is standard 
industry practice, and set out in the policy terms and conditions, and so I cant say its unfair 
or unreasonable. I also heard Mr S say in the phone call with esure that he pays for Mrs Ss 
policy. So I think he would have expected the payments to be taken unless he changed this 
arrangement.
So, even though Mr S told esure he wanted his niece removed from the policy at renewal, I 
dont think esure did anything wrong by including her on the renewal. I think it was for Mrs S 
to tell esure of any change in circumstances if this didnt meet her needs. Unfortunately, she 
didnt do this until after the policy had run for three months. But I cant say that esure did 
anything wrong or needs to pay Mrs S any refund as I think it acted within the policy terms 
and conditions.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman