DRN-2854949
The complaint
Mrs M says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs M bought the policy in 2001 in connection with a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
conclusions so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities - that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint because:
I think AXA made her aware the PPI was optional and she chose to take it out. I say 
this because Mrs M's store card application form was completed to show that she 
wanted the cover. 
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if she needed it 
or whether it was suitable for her. As Mrs M chose to take the PPI, I think she wanted 
to protect her repayments against illness and unemployment. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Mrs M has told us she had a medical condition when she bought the 
policy. So she wouldn't have been covered by the PPI if she'd had to take time off 
work in connection with that condition. I think it's unlikely AXA made that clear to Mrs 
M when the policy was sold. 
But from what Ive seen and been told, it seems Mrs Ms condition didnt affect her 
ability to work. So even if AXA had made Mrs M aware of the policy exclusion that 
affected her, on balance I don't think this would've changed her decision to buy the 
PPI. That's because I think she would've considered the likelihood of having to take 
time off work in connection with her condition to be relatively low. 
The policy was also competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI wouldve stopped her buying it.
Overall, Im not persuaded that the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman