DRN-3710794
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc didnt do enough to help him get a refund for flights he 
paid for but did not utilise due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr B bought return a flight for him and another person from a travel agent I
shall call G. The flight was due to depart on 12 January 2021 and return on 9 February 2021.
He paid £243.07 using his TSB Bank debit card.
In January 2021 Mr B contacted both G and the airline his flight was booked with to explain
hed be unable to board the flight due to UK Government restrictions on travel. G responded
to Mr B explaining that according to the rules set out by the airline, it is not possible to get a
refund of your booking in case of cancellation.
Shortly after this the airline emailed Mr B and said that the outbound journey was
non-refundable but the return leg was refundable, and Mr B should contact G for a refund.
Mr B asked the airline for an explanation why only one part of the journey was refundable
but said he didnt receive one.
Mr B said he never received a refund from G so in February 2021 he asked TSB to help him
get one. After receiving a form from Mr B setting out his dispute, TSB asked him for some
more information including a full description of his dispute, evidence of his attempts to
resolve the matter with G, booking confirmation and Gs terms and conditions. Mr B said he
sent this a number of times by post but TSB kept writing back to him asking him for the same
information.
Mr B said he wasnt getting anywhere with TSB so he made a complaint. In response TSB
told Mr B that he had to submit evidence in a particular way each time it asked for it and
because he didnt do this, it hadnt taken his claim any further.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2022 explaining what I thought TSB should do 
to resolve Mr Bs complaint. I said:
In this case, I am looking at whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in the way it
handled Mr Bs request for help in getting his money back. This will take into account the
circumstances of the problem and how the supplier has acted, but also the chargeback card
scheme rules a bank has to follow.
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a
payment a consumer has made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute
with the supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer.
While it is good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there
is some prosect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be
appropriate for the bank to raise a chargeback. There are grounds or dispute conditions set
by the relevant card scheme and if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed.
TSB said it didnt raise a chargeback for Mr B because he didnt send the information it
requested from him in the required format. It said he needed to provide all of the necessary
evidence to support his claim in one go every time he contacted it as its processes didnt
allow for bits of evidence to be sent separately. Mr B said each time TSB asked him for
information he sent what was requested by post.
Looking at some of TSBs communications to Mr B where it asked for information, I can see
it said the following you can either complete a new Adobe form completing the correct
section regarding your dispute and attach all the evidence set out above. Or if youd rather,
you can choose to send us the required evidence by post.
Each time TSB wrote to Mr B it asked for slightly different items of evidence. I note however
that the paragraph Ive referenced above only asked Mr B for the evidence set out above
and not all of the evidence to support Mr Bs whole case. So even if TSBs processes did
require everything to be provided at once, this wasnt made clear in its letters/emails to Mr B.
Ive considered what I think its likely Mr B did send to TSB over the course of his
communications with it. On that point, despite TSB having no record of receiving any post
from Mr B, I find it unlikely it would have continued to make different information requests to
him if it was not receiving his evidence. So, he must have sent it something.
Ive looked at what information Mr B has retained, and what he told us he sent, including
email confirmation of his booking, and communications the airline sent him explaining that
he was entitled to a refund on the return leg of his flight. From this I think its most likely Mr B
had sent TSB enough information to meet the card scheme rules evidential requirements
under the credit not processed dispute rule.
I say this because the card scheme rules say that a chargeback can be submitted where the
cardholder received a credit or voided transaction receipt that was not processed. And this
can be certified with any record to prove a credit is due to the cardholder. Although it had not
come from G, the email Mr B received from the airline explaining he was entitled to a refund
on the return leg of the journey was evidence that a credit was due to him. Therefore, it
appears that a chargeback for the cost of part of the services did have some prospect of
success and should have been raised based on what Mr B most likely supplied TSB with.
I dont find it clear that Mr B had chargeback grounds for the outbound part of his journey. I
havent been supplied with Gs terms and conditions from the time of booking so I dont know
if Mr B was entitled to a refund of this part of the journey in the event he did not board the
flight. Both G and the airline said this wasnt refundable also, so it seems unlikely on
balance. Ive not seen evidence that the flight was cancelled either  which may have given
Mr B separate grounds for a chargeback. It seems unlikely that a chargeback raised for this
part of the service would have succeeded. So, even if I thought TSB should have raised a
chargeback for this, I dont think it needs to pay Mr B compensation for its failure to do so.
Turning back now to the return journey, its possible G might have defended a chargeback if
TSB had raised one. And while the claim wasnt guaranteed to be successful, it also wasnt
bound to fail. TSBs decision not to submit the chargeback prevented Mr B from using the
scheme as a basis on which he might make his arguments for a refund. I dont consider TSB
treated Mr B fairly in this respect.
Whether that treatment caused Mr B financial loss is debatable  as is the exact loss given
the two flights were not itemised on the invoice Mr B has provided. As Ive noted, I havent
been provided with evidence the return flight was cancelled by the airline or Gs terms and
conditions. So, Gs policy on refunds for flights cancelled by or not boarded by the consumer
is not clear. On the other hand while G said a refund wasnt due because of the rules set outby the airline, the airlines email to Mr B shows suggests otherwise, just that he had to
go through G to get it. So realistically the claim outcome could have gone either way.
My power to award compensation isnt however limited to proven financial loss. I can also
make awards to reflect (among other things) distress and/or inconvenience a complainant
experiences as a result of a firms actions. Here I consider TSBs failure to treat Mr B fairly
has caused him distress and has undoubtedly resulted in him being inconvenienced.
To recognise this, I require TSB to pay Mr B suitable compensation, which I assess at £125.
Further information on how we assess awards for non-financial loss can be found on our
website at https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolvingcomplaint/
understanding-compensation/compensation-for-distress-or-inconvenience.
TSB agreed with my provisional decision. 
Mr B didnt agree that a chargeback claim for part of the flight cost could have gone either 
way and thought it would have succeeded. He said the email from the airline was clear 
evidence a refund was due to him and TSB could have found out how much the return flight 
cost if it raised the chargeback. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focussed my decision here only on what remains contested from my provisional decision 
i.e. whether a partial chargeback for half of the cost of the flights would likely have 
succeeded. My findings in respect of everything else are set out above, have not been 
challenged and therefore remain the same. 
Ive given careful thought to Mr Bs point. But I still find it unclear whether a chargeback 
would have succeeded. I do not know the terms upon which Mr B contracted with G so its 
still not clear if the evidence hed supplied would have been enough to satisfy the 
chargeback scheme requirements under the credit not processed dispute rule. The fact the 
airline said one of his flights was refundable doesnt necessarily mean he was due a refund 
from G as its policy in this situation might have been different. And things are further 
muddied by the fact its not clear if the flight went ahead or not. 
So overall, while I dont find TSB should pay any of the flight costs to Mr B, I still find he was 
caused distress and inconvenience by TSBs failure to treat him fairly and I still assess this 
at £125.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. To put things right TSB Bank plc 
must pay Mr B £125. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman