DRN-3482458
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that The Original Holloway Friendly Society Limited (Holloway) declined a
claim he made on his income protection policy.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr B took out an income protection policy. The following year Mr B was
admitted to hospital with Covid-19. He told us that he nearly died from the infection. Mr B
made a claim on his income protection policy.
Holloway accepted the claim, pending the receipt of further medical evidence. When the
evidence was received, and reviewed, Mr Bs claim was terminated on the basis that he
hadnt accurately disclosed his previous medical history. Holloway said it was seeking to
recover around £1300 from Mr B as, had he accurately disclosed his medical history, they
wouldnt have offered him a policy. Mr B complained to Holloway but they maintained their
decision to stop paying the claim and to recover the money from him. Unhappy, Mr B
complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He thought
that Holloway had acted fairly as Mr B wouldnt have been offered a policy if hed disclosed
his medical history accurately. Mr B didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the
complaint.
In February 2022 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I wasnt intending to uphold 
Mr Bs complaint but for different reasons to our investigator. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Holloway says Mr B incorrectly answered medical questions which he was asked
when he bought his policy. This means the law set out in the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) is relevant and I think its fair 
and reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of Mr Bs claim.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy 
if a policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not 
to misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care 
required is that of a reasonable consumer. Mr B was asked about his pre-existing 
medical history when taking out his policy in 2019.
Holloway says, during the application, Mr B should have told them about a mental 
health condition hed been diagnosed with within the previous five years. In deciding 
whether I think Mr B took reasonable care in answering these questions, Ive 
reviewed the medical information Ive been provided with and Ive also considered 
what Mr B has told us about his medical history.
I think Mr B should have told Holloway about his mental health condition during the
application process. In June 2019, during the application process, Mr B was asked:
In the last 5 years have you had or suffered from any of the following:
Any mental health issue including depression, anxiety, stress, insomnia, 
eating disorder regardless of whether you have seen a doctor or received 
counselling of any kind?
Mr B answered no to that question.
When Holloway reviewed Mr Bs medical records it showed that hed been suffering 
from stress in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. Hed received medication for this as 
recently as March 2019 and consulted his GP for stress and depression in May 
2019. Mr B didnt declare this information to his insurer.
So, having taken all of the above into account, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Holloway to conclude Mr B should have disclosed information about his history of 
mental health conditions when answering the question Ive set out above. 
Therefore, I think Mr B did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA  in 
relation to his mental health.
As Mr B made a qualifying misrepresentation, Holloway is entitled to apply the 
relevant remedy available to it under CIDRA. This says that, in cases of careless 
misrepresentation, if the insurer would not have entered into the contract then 
Holloway is entitled to avoid the policy and refuse all claims. But it must return the 
premiums to Mr B.
Holloway has provided underwriting information which demonstrates that had Mr B 
disclosed his history of mental health conditions they wouldnt have offered him a 
policy at the relevant time. In line with the remedy set out under CIDRA I therefore 
think it was reasonable for Holloway to refuse the claim, avoid the policy and offset 
the cost of the premiums against the amount of money they are trying to recover 
from Mr B. As Holloway had paid Mr B some benefit prior to receiving his detailed 
medical history I think its reasonable that they recover the money from Mr B, minus 
the cost of the premiums they are returning to him.
Holloway didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr B said that he didnt agree with my 
provisional decision but confirmed he didnt have any further comments or evidence to 
provide. So, I now need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither party made any further comments or provided further evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. So, theres no reason for me to reach a different conclusion to that 
which I set out in my provisional decision. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above, and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint as I dont think he accurately disclosed his medical history. Had he done so I dont 
think Holloway would have offered him the policy.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman