DRN-3369123
The complaint
The estate of Mr A complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined a claim under his 
private medical insurance policy. My references to AXA include its agents. The estate of 
Mr A is represented in this complaint by a limited company.
What happened
Mr A had WorldCare Essential Plan private medical insurance, insured by AXA. In 2019 
Mr A was diagnosed with cancer. He had treatment in India but unfortunately the cancer 
progressed and his condition deteriorated.
In November 2019 Mr A was admitted to hospital in India and a few days later he was 
admitted to an intensive care unit and put on a ventilator. His relatives were told of his critical 
condition and the hospital care team said the only thing that was available was palliative 
treatment to make him more comfortable.
On 3 January 2020 Mr A's family and the hospital medical team met to discuss Mr As future 
treatment. Mr As family wanted him to be transferred to a hospital overseas as they hoped 
Mr A could have treatment to prolong his life. They had contacted a hospital in England and 
in a country in Asia, a doctor from the latter had given Mr A fit to fly certificate. The medical 
team at the hospital in India said such a plan was against their medical advice. Mr A was 
discharged on 6 January 2020 and was evacuated to a hospital in England by air 
ambulance. Sadly, on 8 January 2020 Mr A passed away due to cancer and 
bronchopneumonia.
On 6 January 2020 AXA received a pre-authorisation request form signed by a doctor in 
India stating that Mr A had been transferred to a hospital in England. AXA then received a 
claim to pay the air ambulance and Mr As medical costs in England.
AXA declined to cover the costs, saying the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. It said 
the policy terms stated that AXAs pre-authorisation was required for evacuation but no 
authorisation was sought until after Mr As evacuation had been completed. If AXA had been 
told of Mr As deteriorating health it wouldnt have advised to transfer him out of India for his 
own wellbeing and based on his existing medical condition it would have transferred him to 
another hospital within the local area in India. AXA said Mr As family had evacuated Mr A 
overseas against the medical advice of the treating hospital in India and there was no 
medical evidence that the evacuation was medically necessary.
Mr As estate complained to us. The representative for the estate said the report from the 
doctor in India saying the evacuation was against medical advice was just to protect the 
doctors and hospital from a potential negligence claim. It said Mr As family had discussed 
the situation with the medical team in India, they hadnt gone against medical advice and as 
time was of the essence the family had arranged the evacuation. 
Our investigator said AXA had reasonably declined the claim.
The representative for Mr As estate disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said 
no further treatment for Mr A could take place in India, hed been given treatment that wasnt 
in line with standard western medical practice and the only hope of getting proper medical 
treatment was for Mr A to be transferred for treatment overseas. The medical team in India 
was concerned about the risk of Mr As death during travel and although the team said 
evacuation was against medical advice they hadnt provided an alternative. The 
representative emphasised that Mr As family had got a fit to fly certificate for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr As policy and the available evidence to decide whether AXA acted reasonably.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr As family. I understand they thought they were doing all they 
could for Mr A by transferring him to a hospital overseas. But I have to decide whether AXA 
fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
The policy says:
'Pre-Authorisation
When You should contact Us before Treatment starts.
Your Plan with Us will only cover Reasonable and Customary Charges for Treatment 
that is Medically Necessary. It is important that You contact Us before Treatment for 
Us to confirm if such Treatment is Eligible under Your Plan.
Pre-Authorisation is required for the following:
All In-Patient Treatment
Evacuation and Repatriation
If Pre-Authorisation is not obtained and Treatment is received and is subsequently 
proven not to be Medically Necessary, We reserve the right to decline Your claim. If 
Treatment is Medically Necessary, but You did not obtain Pre-Authorisation, We will 
only pay up to Reasonable and Customary Charges.
By Reasonable and Customary Charges We mean the standard fee that would be 
typically made in respect of Your Treatment.
In the case of any Emergency, You, the treating Medical Practitioner or the Hospital, 
must contact Our 24 hour Emergency assistance service as soon as possible. Failure 
to obtain Pre-Authorisation for Treatment of an Eligible Medical Condition means You 
may incur a proportion of the costs.
The policy definition of medically necessary includes:
Medically Necessary Treatment, which in the opinion of a qualified Medical 
Practitioner is appropriate and consistent with the diagnosis and which in accordance 
with generally accepted medical standards could not have been omitted without 
adversely affecting the Insured Persons condition or the quality of medical care 
rendered. Such Treatment must be required for reasons other than the comfort or 
convenience of the patient or Medical Practitioner and provided only for an 
appropriate duration of time. As used in this definition, the term appropriate shall 
mean taking patient safety and cost effectiveness into consideration.I think the policy is clear that AXA needs to pre-authorise the evacuation. AXA didnt pre-
authorise the evacuation. It only received the pre-authorisation claim (which didnt mention 
any costs or detail the treatment that was required at the hospital in England) after Mr A had 
been evacuated. Mr As estates representative says time was of the essence for Mr A. But 
the family had been planning to evacuate Mr A before they had the meeting with the  
medical team in India on 3 January 2020. So I think there was time for AXA to have been 
contacted to see if it would pre-authorise. 
If there is no pre-authorisation, as in this case, and the treatment isnt medically necessary 
the policy terms say AXA can decline the claim. So Ive considered if the medical evidence 
shows that Mr As evacuation was medically necessary.
The report of  Mr As intensive care units doctor in India (who Ill refer to as Dr R) dated 
5 January 2020 says:
Family requested for international transfer to other institute abroad. Risk of life while 
travelling has been explained in detail. Patients wife is desirous to shift abroad. So 
patient has been planned for discharged against medical advice on date 6 Jan 
2020
The critical condition, poor prognosis in view of recurrence of malignancy and 
prolonged need of ventilator and hospital stay also informed to the family. 
Theres no evidence in this report that Mr As evacuation to a hospital overseas was 
medically necessary. The report highlights in bold text that Mr A was discharged against 
medical advice. Mr As family say the doctor and hospital were just protecting themselves 
from potential litigation. But I think AXA could reasonably understand from that report that 
Mr As discharge from hospital was against his treating doctors medical advice.  
I note Mr As family got a fit to fly certificate with high risk consent for Mr A from a doctor in 
a hospital in another country on 1 January 2020. But I think its reasonable for me to put 
more weight on the evidence of the treating doctors in India who were able to physically 
examine and assess Mr As actual state of health. Dr Rs report is clear that Mr As 
discharge, and therefore his evacuation overseas, was against their medical advice. Also a 
fit to fly certificate isnt sufficient evidence that it was medically necessary for Mr A to be 
evacuated overseas.
A few months after Mr As evacuation and him passing away Mr As estate representative 
obtained a letter from Mr As lead treating doctor in India, Dr M. The letter dated 25 April 
2020 says:
We, as a team discussed Mr As medical condition in full with members of Mr As 
family  While we did raise our concerns about the risk of the flight to the United 
Kingdom we were also minded that we were unable to help him further other than 
make the rest of his life comfortable (palliative care).
The doctors in England believed that they may be able to stabilize (Mr A) and, 
thereafter, review the position regarding the underlying cancer. We certainly had no 
objection to this and the family indicated they wished to give (Mr A) this opportunity. 
For this reason we agreed to sign off and discharge him for the purpose of being 
flown, by way of emergency in an air ambulance to England. 
Although this letter shows the medical team in India did discharge Mr A for evacuation to a 
hospital in England they did so because his family wanted to give him the opportunity to 
have his health reviewed. The medical team had no objection to Mr A being treated 
elsewhere. But the letter doesnt retract that Mr As evacuation was against the medical advice of the medical team in India. Even if I read the letter to mean the medical team had 
retracted that advice the letter isnt sufficient evidence that Mr As evacuation to the hospital 
in England was medically necessary.
Ive also looked at the evidence from the cancer specialist at the hospital in England 
(Professor N). His letter of 8 November 2019 says:
(Mr As) family came to see me for a second opinionI have reassured the family 
that he should stay in (India) and continue with the course of radiotherapy as 
prescribed and that there is no established indication for immunotherapy as an 
adjuvant treatment after surgery at the present time for head and neck cancer 
patients.
The evidence from that letter is that Mr A was receiving the correct treatment in India. 
I havent seen any medical evidence from Professor N that Mr A had been, or would be, 
receiving inappropriate treatment from the medical team at the hospital in India, as Mr As 
estates representative suggested.
Professor Ns letter of 8 January 2020, after he saw Mr A at the hospital in England, says:
(Mr As) medical condition precludes further cancer treatment at the moment, even 
immunotherapy, because of his very fragile medical condition we plan to stabilise 
him on the ITU over the next few days  and when he is well enough we will do a 
scan I will meet with the family then and give further oncological advice.
I dont think theres any evidence in that letter that Mr As evacuation to the hospital in 
England was medically necessary. Sadly Mr A passed away the day of Professor Ns letter. 
I understand this was a very difficult time for Mr As family and also theyve incurred 
considerable costs. But as Ive not seen any evidence from Mr As treating doctors that 
shows Mr As evacuation to a hospital in England was medically necessary I think AXA acted 
in line with the policy terms and fairly and reasonably in declining to pay the costs claimed.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman