DRN-1944040
The complaint
Mr D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund payments made from his 
account to an online gambling firm. He says he didnt make the payments.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ill only provide a brief 
summary here.
In May 2019, two gambling transactions were made  totalling £205  using Mr Ds NatWest 
debit card. Mr D complained hed not made these transactions and wanted them refunded.  
Mr D said the card had been taken from his post box and used to register the gambling 
account.
The two payments made to the gambling firm were as follows:
8/5/2019 @ 18:58 £5
9/5/2019 @ 18:16 £200
Mr D has said he found out about these transactions when he logged on to check his online 
banking. He also said hed never used the gambling firm the payments went to.
Mr D contacted NatWest to inform it that he hadnt made any of the payments and to seek a 
refund. NatWest looked into what Mr D had told it had happened but declined his claim. It 
noted the correct card details had been used and that the gambling firm had confirmed to it, 
that its records matched those held by NatWest.  NatWest added the IP address used for the 
gambling transactions, was the same as one used by Mr D regularly. NatWest issued its final 
response on 18 May 2019, not upholding Mr Ds complaint. 
Mr D then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint, in summary she explained the card 
that had been used had been issued in November 2017 and was collected in branch, which 
would have required photo ID. So she thought it unlikely a third party could have had 
possession of the card without Mr Ds knowledge.  And as she could see the IP address for 
the gambling transactions was one Mr D had used, she thought it more likely than not Mr D 
had made the payments to the gambling firm. 
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. I hope     
Mr D wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed things into what I see is the crux of 
his complaint.
Having considered everything, I've reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator 
did, and for similar reasons. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr D but 
please let me explain why. 
The regulation that is relevant when considering Mr Ds complaint in relation to the disputed 
transactions is the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs2017). Under the PSRs2017 
banks are required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction - where its customer 
didnt make or authorise payment(s) themselves.
 
There are some exceptions in the regulations, but none Ive needed to consider or that have 
had an impact on the decision Im making here. So, when we look at whether a bank has 
acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether 
the customer made the payment(s) themselves or allowed them to be made.  If were 
satisfied that they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
So, I need to come to a view about whether or not I think Mr D authorised the payment. 
Looking at all the facts of this case, I cant know for certain exactly whats happened. I wasnt 
present at the time when the disputed transactions took place or when the preceding and 
ensuing events occurred. 
So, in situations like these I need to decide a case on what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened. To help me decide this Ive considered what Mr D has told us and the 
information he has provided about the events leading up to the disputed transactions. I have 
also taken into consideration what NatWest has said and all the other evidence surrounding 
the transactions before reaching my decision.
From the evidence I have seen I am satisfied that the payments were authenticated, and I 
think on balance its more likely Mr D made them himself. I say this for the following reasons;
- The card used for the gambling transactions had been issued to Mr D in November 
2017 and had previously been used successfully by Mr D for legitimate transactions. 
So it seems unlikely to me that this was the same card Mr D believes was stolen from 
his post box.
- This is supported by evidence that NatWest has provided, indicating that the card 
used for the disputed transactions was collected in branch and it would have required 
photographic ID for it to have been collected. 
- Considering the card used was issued in November 2017, Im not persuaded a 
fraudster would have kept hold of the card for some 18 months before using it. 
Typically, a fraudster will try and make the most of having access to the card details 
in the shortest amount of time to maximise their gain before the fraud is identified and 
the card blocked. So, on balance Im not persuaded that the activity matches what Id 
typically expect to see of fraudulent use.
- The gambling firm has confirmed its records matched those held by NatWest. 
- One minute before each of the disputed transactions were carried out Mr Ds mobile 
banking was logged into. The same IP address was used to carry out the gambling 
transactions that were used to log in to Mr Ds mobile banking and this was an IP address that Mr D used previously. This would mean, if the transactions had been 
carried out by a fraudster, the fraudster would have needed Mr Ds mobile banking 
details and to have been in the same location as Mr D.  Im not persuaded this is 
likely to have been the case, as there is no suggestion of Mr Ds mobile banking 
details being compromised and I dont think it likely a fraudster would steal a card 
from a branch, and then when trying to use the card some 18 months later, happen 
to be in the same location of an IP address that Mr D regularly uses. 
-I also cannot see the benefit to an unknown third party of spending Mr Ds funds by 
registering a gambling account in his name, using his card  as any winnings would 
be payable to Mr D, not the third-party. 
Theres no doubt that fraud does happen and peoples debit cards are used without 
authorisation even for gambling transactions. However the evidence doesnt suggest thats 
what happened here. I believe its more likely than not Mr D made these transactions 
himself.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman