DRN-2506253
The complaint
Ms L and Mr P complain about poor service from an appointed representative of The Right 
Mortgage Limited when it gave mortgage advice. They say the broker made numerous 
errors which caused delays and financial loss and theyd like compensation. Ms L has 
managed this complaint on their behalf. 
What happened
In mid-2020 Ms L and Mr P contacted a broker for mortgage advice as they were buying a 
house. They told the broker that about half of Mr Ps income was from overtime, and that 
they were funding their deposit from a help to buy ISA. However, the broker recommended a 
mortgage with a lender that doesnt take Mr Ps overtime pay into account. 
Ms L says the broker didnt tell them their purchase price was over the limit for the help to 
buy ISA bonus scheme. This left them having to find extra funds just before completion. And 
they didnt have the chance to negotiate with the vendor to reduce the price.
Ms L also says the broker applied to a second lender without their consent (which resulted in 
a search on their credit files), made errors in their application, and didnt check with the 
lender for updates. Ms L and Mr P say the broker should compensate them for the ISA 
bonus that they missed out on.
Our investigator said while it was Ms L and Mr Ps responsibility to check they met criteria for 
the help to buy scheme, the broker could have assisted with this. The investigator said Ms L 
and Mr P didnt have any financial loss, but there were service issues and The Right 
Mortgage should pay £250 compensation for this. 
The Right Mortgage agreed. Ms L and Mr P didnt agree, saying £250 wasnt enough 
compensation, especially as The Right Mortgage had received a fee from the lender. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L and Mr P asked a broker for mortgage advice. Its recommendation letter says it 
provided a full advice and recommendation service. 
Ms L says the service they received from the broker was poor. She says the broker caused 
delays and she had to chase for updates and to move things along. They had to find about 
£2,260 at short notice when they found they didnt meet criteria for the help to buy ISA 
bonus. And they missed the opportunity to negotiate the price with the vendor to meet the 
help to buy rules.
Ms L and Mr P were buying a house using the Governments help to buy equity loan 
scheme, in which the Government provides funds towards their purchase in return for an 
equity share in the property. The broker was a help to buy accredited broker. He says this 
meant he had training in completing applications for customers using the help to buy 
scheme. This didnt include ISAs.
Ms L says the broker should have known they didnt meet criteria to claim a help to buy ISA 
bonus. It would have been helpful if hed known this and told them earlier: Ms L and Mr P 
would have had more time to plan how to fund their deposit. But I dont think its fair to say 
that the broker caused them to lose the ISA bonus. Ms L and Mr P should have received 
information from the provider of the help to buy ISA about how to qualify for the ISA bonus, 
and their conveyancer was responsible for making the application. Most significantly though, 
I dont think I can fairly conclude that the vendor would have reduced the price by nearly 
£10,000 so that Ms L and Mr P could qualify for the ISA bonus (of £2,260). If Ms L and Mr P 
thought the vendor was likely to agree to reduce the price by this amount Id have expected 
them to ask for this  regardless of the ISA bonus.
I dont think Ms L and Mr P suffered a financial loss due to an error by the broker. They didnt 
receive the help to buy ISA bonus because they didnt meet the criteria. 
Finding out they wouldnt get the ISA bonus at a late stage in the process put Ms L and Mr P 
in a difficult position. They were short of about £2,260 towards their purchase. The broker 
said as theyd originally budgeted to pay stamp duty (which had since been reduced) this 
was now available towards the purchase. I think the broker was simply offering a practical 
solution to Ms L and Mr Ps immediate problem  the funding of their purchase. I dont think 
he intended to upset Ms L and Mr P, or suggest the stamp duty was a replacement for the 
ISA bonus. 
Ms L says the broker should have known that the first lender applied to didnt accept 
overtime when assessing income. The broker says he thought the lender would accept 
overtime, and he thinks the reason it didnt in this case was due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Lenders change their criteria from time to time: I note that this lenders website says at the 
moment it does accept overtime when assessing mortgage applications. While I appreciate 
having an application declined was upsetting and added about a week to the process, I dont 
think I can fairly say the broker should have known this lender would decline the application.
The second lender issued a mortgage offer to Ms L and Mr P. Ms L says the broker made an 
application to this lender without their authorisation, rather than ask for a decision in 
principle, resulting in a search on their credit files. The broker disputes this. Either way, I 
dont think this caused Ms L and Mr P any detriment. As this application went ahead this 
lender would have carried out a credit search at some point. 
Ms L and Mr P also say the broker made errors in the application. The broker says he used 
information provided to him, and other parties had incorrect details (such as names or the 
property address). Ms L says she had to chase the lender as the broker didnt do this. The 
broker says he did contact the lender, and Ms L chose also to contact the lender directly. 
Ms L says they made an offer for a property on 22 May 2020. Their first mortage application 
was made the same day. The application to the second lender was made on 28 May, and 
they received a mortgage offer on 10 July 2020. Overall, this took seven weeks. This isnt an 
unusually long period, and I must take into account that this application was made in early 
summer 2020 during the Covid-19 pandemic. I appreciate that errors in the documents were 
frustrating  especially during a property purchase which is itself stressful. But, regardless of 
how the errors came about, I dont think they caused significant delays. I dont think its fair 
and reasonable to require The Right Mortgage to pay compensation for this.
Putting things right
Ms L and Mr P were caused upset and trouble when they discovered late in the purchase process that they didnt meet criteria for the help to buy ISA bonus. It would have been less 
upsetting if theyd known this sooner. They are also unhappy with the service they received 
from their broker. The Right Mortgage agreed to pay compensation of £250 for this, and I 
think this is fair and reasonable.
The lender paid a fee to the broker. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require The Right 
Mortgage to pay all or part of this to Ms L and Mr P. While I appreciate Ms L and Mr P are 
unhappy with the service they received, the broker carried out the necessary work on their 
behalf to recommend and apply for their mortgage. 
My final decision
My decision is that The Right Mortgage Limited should pay £250 to Ms L and Mr P. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman