DRN-3173745
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has unfairly declined a claim under 
a commercial property insurance policy.
Mrs S is represented in this case by Mr S. As Mr S dealt with the majority of the claim, I will 
normally refer to him, rather than to Mrs S.
  
What happened
Mr S contacted AXA to make a claim for damage to the chimney and internal rafters of a 
commercial property. AXA assessed the claim and declined it because it said the damage 
was the result of wear and tear and rot.
Mr S complained to AXA, but it didnt provide a final response. So, Mr S complained to this 
service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She said it was reasonable for AXA to 
decline the damage to the chimney as wear and tear. However, she said the damage to the 
rafter and internal decoration should be covered under the accidental damage part of the 
policy.
As AXA didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 30 September 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
AXA considered whether the claim was covered under the storm part of the policy. When we 
look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes
For the first question, it isnt clear when the damage happened. However, Ive looked at 
weather conditions in the weeks leading up to the time the damage was reported to AXA. 
Having done so, I didnt see any weather conditions that would be considered to be storm 
conditions, although there did seem to be some heavy rain. So, I think the answer to the first 
question is no. As a result, I havent considered the other questions, as I dont think there is 
evidence to show there was a one-off storm event.
However, I have also looked at the damage to see whether it was covered by another part of 
the policy, such as accidental damage. AXA carried out a desktop assessment of the 
external damage based on a builders quote provided by Mr S and some photos. The quote 
described the cause of damage as weather/ rain and said:
The concrete flashing around the chimney is cracked and water seeped through the cracks 
and damaged the timber rafters which subsequently led to structural movements part of the 
roof.
The photos showed cracking around the chimney. AXA also tried to contact the contractor to 
discuss the damage further, but was unable to contact them. Im aware that Mr S also told 
AXA that there hadnt been any recent maintenance on the roof and there hadnt been any 
issues for the previous 30 to 40 years. The photos of the roof area also showed moss and 
other issues that I think suggested there had been a general lack of maintenance. Based on 
the evidence AXA was able to consider, I currently think it was reasonable for it to conclude 
that the external damage was the result of wear and tear and to decline that part of the 
claim, as it wasnt covered by the policy.
The builders quote also covered wider repairs to the roof, but I cant see that this work was 
for damage that formed part of the claim and instead seemed to be general improvements to 
the roof as a whole. So, I havent seen anything to suggest that AXA needed to consider 
these costs.
Ive also looked at the internal damage. The issue here though is that Im not currently 
persuaded that the loss adjuster properly assessed this damage. Ive read a discussion 
within AXA about whether the loss adjuster properly assessed this damage. There seemed 
to be some doubt about whether the photos relied on by the loss adjuster to say there was 
rot were enough to show this and whether this might be considered accidental damage as it 
was likely to be unforeseen and hidden damage. AXA also discussed the internal 
redecoration and whether this should be covered as accidental damage. This then seemed 
to be raised with the loss adjusters company, but I havent seen any evidence that the loss 
adjuster then considered this or that Mr S was given an outcome.
Im aware that following our investigators findings, AXA provided some further comments 
about the rafters and the internal damage. As part of that, AXA seemed to suggest that Mr S 
hadnt made a claim for the internal decoration, but I think the discussion Ive referred to 
above suggests that he did. So, I think AXA needs to ensure that it fully assesses all of the 
internal damage and provides Mr S with the outcome.
I can understand that this might be a disappointing outcome for Mr S, but I currently think 
this is the fairest way to deal with these parts of the claim. This is because I dont think I 
have enough evidence to say one way or the other whether these parts of the claim should 
be covered and that, at least in part, this seems to be because the loss adjuster didnt look at 
all the aspects of the claim and gather all of the evidence. I cant require an insurer to pay a 
part of a claim that isnt covered by the policy and I dont think I have enough evidence to 
say whether it should or not. 
So, Ive also thought about compensation. Mr S explained his concerns to AXA about the 
claim being declined and AXA seemed to identify some issues with the way the loss adjuster 
had handled the claim. I think this will have caused frustration and inconvenience, so I 
currently intend to say that AXA should pay £150 compensation for how this claim has been 
handled.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 30 October 2021.
Mr S sent a range of comments, which I summarise below:The risk reward ratio meant it simply wasnt worth removing moss from the tile grooves, 
but that it was cleared when the gutters blocked. He provided an invoice from 2016 that 
said the gutters had been cleaned. He said the presence of moss had no bearing on the 
rafter damage or the roof.
The accidental rot within the rafters was directly beneath the chimney.
Mr S provided further research he had carried out and photos of the roof.
Mr S provided photos of the internal timbers and said rot was not present in them.
Had AXA or the loss adjuster made a site visit, they would have seen the entire front side 
was unaffected and that it was false to allege that all the timber was rotten. The damage 
was the result of water seeping into that area alone.
He queried whether I was classing timber/ carpentry works carried out as internal 
damage.
He queried how costs would be apportioned for the work.
There were costs of £264 so far for the plaster damage and there was still some minor 
painting outstanding.
The inconvenience, frustration and stress both he and Mrs S had experienced couldnt 
be monetised, but the work involved in dealing with AXAs service did not equate to 
£150. 
There was aggravation at multiple points and there were extensive security checks 
before speaking to an advisor. Even as an authorised person, Mr S was at one point 
denied access as it wasnt on AXAs systems.
An AXA advisor had said the claim should be covered under accidental damage, but 
another department contradicted this.
AXA agreed with the £150 compensation. It also referred to the findings of Mr Ss contractor 
about the rot and said:
Given the works required for preventative works it is not known if this rafter is rotten
because of the unbreathable membrane or as a result of water ingress, the damage isnt 
hidden as it would be visible in the loft area. For the rafter to be rotten to this extent it would 
have been occurring over a considerable period of time.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part and for the reasons previously 
given. I have considered the comments from both parties and this doesnt change my view. 
Ive considered everything that was said, even if I dont comment on it here, as Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key points in order to make a fair and reasonable decision.
In terms of the roof damage, for this to be covered by the policy, it would need to be the 
result of a one-off insured event. In my provisional decision, I explained why I didnt think it 
was storm damage. In Mr Ss recent comments he said:
The cause as we know was simply by a small crack on the base of the chimney which only 
became visible in hindsight which allowed water to seep internally. 
On research it seems that these cracks can appear when there are repeated extreme 
temperature fluctuations from heat to sudden drops in temperature causing expansion and 
contraction. Recent climate fluctuations of course have been more apparent in recent years.So, based on what Mr S has said that would suggest the damage happened over a period of 
time and due to general weather conditions. That isnt something that was covered by the 
policy and so Im still not persuaded that AXA needs to deal with the roof damage.
In terms of the internal damage, this includes both the rafters and the decoration. Mr S has 
now provided more photos, including of the rafters from above. Given Ive said AXA needs to 
consider the internal damage further, if Mr S wants AXA to take this or similar evidence into 
account he should provide this to AXA so it can consider it.
I can also confirm to AXA that I had read the quote from Mr Ss contractor and took this 
information into account when I made my provisional decision. In terms of assessing the 
internal damage, what Im asking AXA to do is ensure that it has properly assessed all of the 
internal damage before reaching a decision. This is because AXA itself seemed to be 
doubtful that the loss adjuster had properly assessed the internal damage, that being both 
the damage to the joists and the internal decoration, and considered whether it was covered 
by the policy. In particular, AXA wasnt sure that the loss adjuster had considered whether 
the internal damage might be covered under the accidental damage part of the policy. As I 
said in my provisional decision, this seemed to be raised with the loss adjusters company, 
but I hadnt seen any evidence that the loss adjuster then considered this or that Mr S was 
given an outcome. This is why I said AXA needed to ensure that it fully assessed all of the 
internal damage and provide Mr S with the outcome. I remain of the view that AXA needs to 
do this.
Should AXA make settlement for any part of the claim, AXA would only need to deal with 
damage covered by the policy. So, Mr S would need to be able to show which parts of the 
costs were for that specific damage.
In terms of compensation, Ive considered Mr Ss comments. There will always be some 
inconvenience when dealing with a claim, what I was considering was the additional 
inconvenience because of issues that were over and above what a policyholder should 
normally have to deal with. The compensation wasnt meant to reflect an hourly rate for 
dealing with issues. I would also expect an insurer to require people to go through security 
checks when they call about a claim. Although Mr S might have been unhappy about the 
level of checks he had to go through, I dont think I can fairly criticise AXA for wanting to 
confirm someones identity. I was also aware that at one stage AXA had checked whether 
Mr S was authorised to deal with the claim. I should also note that Im not able to award 
compensation to Mr S personally, as he isnt a policyholder. Having thought about this again, 
I remain of the view that £150 is an appropriate amount of compensation.
  
Putting things right
AXA must fully consider all of the internal damage and provide Mrs S with the outcome. It 
must also pay £150 compensation.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld in part. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Fully consider all of the internal damage and provide Mrs S with the outcome.
Pay Mrs S £150 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman