The complaint
Mr O complains about how Lloyds Bank Plc dealt with an online transfer he wanted to make 
from his account. Hes also unhappy about the service he received afterwards.
What happened
Mr O has a current account with Lloyds. On 2 August 2019 at around 6 pm he wanted to 
make a payment online from his account to a family member in the sum of £4450. Mr O said 
this transfer was time sensitive as it was needed urgently by the intended recipient. He also 
said he hadnt made a payment to this individual before. 
Lloyds said Mr Os online payment was flagged as suspicious by its anti-fraud systems. So, 
it was blocked and Mr O was sent a text alert asking him to contact its fraud department.
Mr O contacted Lloyds fraud team by telephone immediately and was asked questions in 
efforts to verify his identity and about the purpose of the transfer. Lloyds said while Mr O had 
confirmed his name, date of birth, address and postcode on the telephone he declined to 
answer questions designed to verify that the payment transfer was authentic. So, it blocked 
his account and said hed need to attend his local branch with proof of ID in order to unblock 
his account and authorise the transfer. 
Mr O attended his branch with ID and complained to Lloyds that the questions hed been 
asked by its fraud department were inappropriate and unnecessary. He felt, as hed 
confirmed his name, date of birth, address and postcode, hed provided sufficient information 
to verify his identity. So, Lloyds should have authorised his transfer on that basis. And he 
didnt feel the reason why he wanted to transfer funds to a family member was relevant to 
Lloyds. 
Mr O was also unhappy about the way hed been treated in branch. He said the amount of 
time hed spent in branch had been excessive and he felt he should have been asked 
questions about his account and payment transfer in privacy instead on in the main banking 
hall.
When Lloyds responded to Mr Os complaint it explained his payment had triggered a fraud 
alert. And it said the questions hed been asked by its fraud department were an essential 
part of its payment verification process. It further stated that the length of time hed spent in 
branch was as a result of him electing to raise a formal complaint. Overall, it didnt feel it had 
made an error and it didnt uphold Mr Os complaint.
Being dissatisfied with Lloyds response to his complaint Mr O referred it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into it and thought Lloyds had dealt with his complaint fairly. So they 
didnt recommend upholding it. But Mr O disagreed and asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
DRN-1506304What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr O and Lloyds that Ive read everything that they have 
provided. So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr O experienced here. I can appreciate that he was 
caused distress and inconvenience by what happened. But the issue here is whether I think 
Lloyds made a mistake, or treated Mr O unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. 
And, having thought carefully about everything he and Lloyds have said, Im afraid to say 
that I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Ill focus first on Lloyds decision to subject Mr Os payment transfer for a fraud check. I 
appreciate this payment was authentic. But banks have a duty to have robust strategies to 
safeguard customer accounts from potentially fraudulent transactions. Preventing fraud is as 
important for the bank as it is for its customers. To do so a bank may subject online 
payments to a security check as Lloyds did here.
I understand that when Lloyds blocked Mr Os online transfer it was an inconvenient and 
frustrating experience. But, I think Lloyds had reason to suspect this transaction wasnt 
authentic as it was to an individual Mr O hadnt paid before and it was for a large amount. 
So, I can understand why Lloyds had cause to be vigilant here. It couldnt have known 
whether the payment was genuine until it could confirm the circumstances of this transfer 
with Mr O.
I understand Mr O is unhappy about the questions Lloyds asked him to verify his payment 
wasnt fraudulent. But Lloyds said its fraud department would ask customers a combination 
of questions that differ from its usual verification process to identify its speaking with the 
account holder. It said, here, these questions were intentionally personalised to Mr O, which 
explains why Lloyds wanted to ask him about the reason for his transfer. 
I havent been able to listen to the call Mr O had with Lloyds fraud department as the call 
recording is no longer available, which isnt surprising given the passage of time. However, 
like our investigator, Ive seen a transcript of this call. And, while Mr O feels the questions 
asked were inappropriate and unnecessary, Im satisfied Lloyds asked them in efforts to 
ascertain whether it was Mr O with whom it was speaking. 
Lloyds said if a customer declines to answer the questions it asks  as Mr O did here  it 
isnt able to complete verification. And, in those circumstances, it will apply a temporary 
block in the interests of protecting the security of their account and ask an account holder to 
attend their branch with proof of identification in order to unblock their account. 
Im satisfied that asking Mr O to attend a branch was a reasonable precaution for Lloyds to 
adopt here. I can understand this caused inconvenience and frustration to him. But I dont 
think Lloyds had an alternative given that he had declined to answer questions asked. 
Overall, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Lloyds to respond in the way it did to ensure it 
was acting in Mr Os best interests.  I believe Lloyds was simply trying to safeguard his account from potential fraud. So, taking everything into consideration, I cant fairly conclude 
that the way in which it responded was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
I can understand Mr Os frustrations regarding what happened. Hes told our service he 
incurred a loss because his use of his account was restricted. But, even if Mr O had provided 
evidence of that loss to our service, I wouldnt tell Lloyds to reimburse him as part of this 
decision because, for the reasons Ive already outlined, it hasnt made an error in placing 
restrictions on his account. 
Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied Lloyds adhered to its payment verification and security 
processes. Mr O may disagree with Lloyds approach to potentially fraudulent transactions. 
But its entitled to determine its own policy in relation to how it deals with payments it 
suspects to be fraudulent. So, our service cant comment on whether a business policy is 
right or tell it that its policy should be changed. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded that Lloyds made an error 
in how it dealt with Mr Os payment.
Mr O complains that the way he was treated in branch was unfair. He feels he spent an 
excessive length of time in branch. But based on the evidence Ive seen, I think his visit 
became protracted because he told Lloyds he wanted it to log a complaint. Its reasonable to 
expect this to have caused a delay in the time hed have needed to spend in branch. So, Im 
not persuaded he was dealt with in an unfair manner.
I understand that Mr O complains he wasnt afforded privacy when discussing matters 
regarding his account and the payment hed wanted to make. But I havent seen any 
evidence that he raised any concerns about this in branch. And Lloyds couldnt have known 
Mr O was uncomfortable discussing his financial affairs in the banking hall unless he raised 
this with it. I therefore cant fairly find it made an error.
I understand Mr O feels very strongly about the issues raised in his complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything hes said. But for the reasons already outlined I think Lloyds 
has dealt with this complaint fairly and done all it can to resolve this dispute. I realise Mr O 
will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve his 
dispute with Lloyds informally, can do for him.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman