DRN-1440319
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N have complained that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) unfairly 
declined their home insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs N registered a home insurance claim with L&G in May 2019. This was after they 
discovered water was leaking from a damaged pipe beneath their driveway, which was 
connected to the propertys septic tank. It was thought this had been damaged by a digger 
driving over the land above it. As water and sewage were leaking, Mr N had already 
arranged emergency repairs via his own contractors. 
L&G appointed one of their experts to produce a desktop assessment, by reviewing the 
information provided by Mr N. L&G offered Mr N an amount of money to settle the claim, 
which he accepted. But L&G said they wouldnt pay until theyd spoken to the joint policy 
holder, Mrs N. 
The following day L&G spoke to Mr N again to explain the cash settlement was being 
withdrawn. Theyd reviewed the report from Mr Ns contractors and felt the damage was 
excluded under the policy terms and conditions. Mr N complained on the basis they had 
gone back on their offer and he was out of pocket, after already going ahead with his own 
contractors.  
L&G investigated the complaint and upheld it in part. They agreed the level of service had 
been poor, and for raising Mr Ns expectations offered him £150 compensation. But based 
on evidence submitted by Mr Ns contractors it seemed the cause of the damage was faulty 
installation, and not anything covered under the policy terms. As the repairs had already 
been carried out, their position had been prejudiced as theyd lost the chance to inspect the 
cause of damage.  
An investigator at this service looked at the complaint and felt what L&G had offered was 
enough. He didnt think Mr and Mrs N had been able to show that an insured event had 
taken place. Therefore, he didnt think the business acted unfairly by declining the claim. He 
also felt the compensation offered was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr N didnt agree. He felt strongly that because L&G had accepted his claim and offered the 
cash settlement, they shouldnt be allowed to withdraw the offer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L&Gs policy booklet sets out the circumstances in which Mr and Mrs N can make a claim for 
damage on their home insurance policy. I can see this includes cover for accidental 
breakage of underground pipes. 
Under the section titled what is not covered its confirmed there is no cover for any loss or 
damage rising from defective design, defective materials, faulty workmanship or failure to 
follow manufacturers instructions. L&G used this exclusion to later decline the claim. 
Even though L&G may have offered to settle by making a cash payment, its apparent that 
this conversation took place before L&G had reviewed all the information available to them 
and checked if the type of damage was covered under the policy terms and conditions. I 
agree that this is a poor service.
When Mr N spoke to L&Gs representative (Company A) he explained in detail how the issue 
had been found. He said there had been a problem with wet ground for some time and when 
his contractor investigated the matter, they found the soakaway pipe had been set into clay 
and installed incorrectly when the house was built. There was no suggestion that the pipe 
had been accidentally damaged. The representative explained why it was unlikely the claim 
would be paid. 
Having reviewed all the information weve been provided, Im satisfied L&Gs decision on the 
claim not being covered is fair. There was no accidental damage and the policy allows L&G 
to refuse a claim where the reason for the damage, as in this case, is due to faulty 
workmanship.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ns point that as L&G had offered to pay him cash, they 
should be bound by that offer. I havent listened to the call Mr N refers, but I dont need to in 
order to reach an outcome thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ill explain 
why.
Whats clear is that Mr N had the repair work carried out before L&G were made aware of 
the potential claim. So, Mr N didnt carry out that work in reliance on what L&G had said. And 
indeed, it was work he was going to have had to address anyway due to the nature of raw 
sewage escaping the confines of the soakaway. Im not persuaded that Mr N acted in 
reliance on L&Gs offer and so because the claim isnt payable under the policy, I wont be 
asking L&G to pay the claim.
With the above in mind, Ive thought about the amount of compensation offered by L&G and 
the overall impact their mistakes had on Mr and Mrs N. I can understand it would have been 
disappointing when they were told their claim wasnt covered. But I think L&G acted quickly 
to put right the mistake, which minimized this impact. And, as the repairs had already been 
carried out, I dont think that the mistake had any impact on Mr Ns decision to go ahead with 
the quotation for the work. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied L&Gs offer of £150 was fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I am aware that Legal & General 
Insurance Limited has made an offer to pay £150. I conclude that such an offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Legal & General Insurance Limited 
should pay Mr and Mrs N £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman