DRN-3554605
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, reduced the credit 
limit on her account.
What happened
Mrs R received a letter from Barclays advising that they were reducing the credit limit on her 
credit account from £13,050 to £450. The letter also invited Mrs R to provide further 
information on her current financial status if she wanted Barclays to consider not reducing 
the credit limit on her account. Mrs R provided further information to Barclays as invited, but 
after an assessment of that information, Barclays advised that they would still be reducing 
the credit limit on Mrs Rs account to £450. Mrs R wasnt happy about this, especially as her 
understanding of her credit score was that it was very good, so she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mrs Rs complaint. But they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards Mr R 
by reducing the credit limit on her account as they had, so they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Barclays had 
acted unfairly towards Mrs R in how theyd managed the situation, and so they also didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mrs R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mrs R might feel that the reduction of the credit limit by Barclays wasnt 
warranted by her current financial position, including that she holds a very good credit rating 
with the credit reference agency (CRA) with whom she subscribes. 
I also acknowledge that Mrs R feels that Barclays reducing her credit limit has left her in a 
financially vulnerable position as shes no longer able to use that withdrawn credit as a 
financial backup if needed, or benefit from the Section 75 protection that would have been 
afforded to her, had she been able to make purchases using her Barclays credit account.
Ultimately though, the decision on how much credit to provide to a customer is a credit 
providers to make, and this service wouldnt generally consider instructing a credit provider 
to provide credit to a customer that the credit provider has itself said its unwilling to provide. 
What this service may consider is whether any form of compensation should fairly be paid by 
the credit provider to the customer for any upset or inconvenience resulting from the credit 
provider making the decision to reduce a credit limit on an unreasonable or unfair basis.
But in this instance, Barclays have been able to explain to this service why they made the 
decision to reduce the credit limit available to Mr S, and having reviewed that explanation, 
Im satisfied that Barclays reasons for reducing Mrs Ss credit limit were fair and reasonable.
I realise that it will be frustrating for Mrs S to not be told the exact reasons why Barclays 
chose to reduce her credit limit, especially as she feels her current financial position doesnt 
merit such a reduction, including that she holds a very god score with one of the CRAs.
But Barclays wouldnt be expected to provide a detailed reasoning for their decision in this 
regard. This is because if information about Barclays decision making processes were to 
enter the public domain, there could be an increased possibility that the information might be 
used by other individuals to circumnavigate Barclays risk assessment processes, and to 
potentially obtain credit for which those individuals wouldnt otherwise have been approved.
It also must be noted that Barclays, like all credit providers, have an obligation to undertake 
assessments such as they did here and to ensure that their customers arent provided credit 
which might be of detriment to them, either in the present or in the future, and to reduce the 
credit limits available to its customers where its reasonably believed that might be the case.
Barclays have been able to demonstrate that the review of Mrs Rs credit limit was made in 
line with those obligations. And given that Barclays gave Mrs R advance notice of their 
intention to reduce her credit limit, as well as the opportunity to provide further information 
before a final decision on the credit limit was made, I dont feel Barclays acted unfairly 
towards Mrs R by making the decision to reduce the credit limit on her account as they did. 
And while Mrs R may no longer be able to benefit from the protections that credit purchases 
may provide, it must be noted that those protections arent a right, but instead are a potential 
benefit available to consumers whom credit providers are willing to provide sufficient credit. 
In this instance, Barclays arent willing to continue providing credit to Mrs R at the level they 
previously were. And while this is unfortunate for Mrs R in this regard, I dont feel its unfair. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs R was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action here. I hope that Mrs R will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman