DRN-4349717
The complaint
Miss M complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited failed to help her reclaim 
money in respect of a personal training, nutrition and dietetic services programme. 
What happened
Miss M signed up to a programme in November 2021 with a company Ill call S. The cost of 
the programme was £3,800. In early 2022, Miss M contacted S as she was unhappy with the 
amount she had paid to them and what she was getting in return. She suggested an 
extension to the programme or a reduction in the overall cost. Miss M says S initially agreed 
to extend this by a month but later revoked this.
Miss M complained to S saying she hadnt achieved the expected results despite 
participating fully in the programme. She said to S that their contract explained that if clients 
didnt achieve results, they would be entitled to full refund. However, S refused to refund her. 
Miss M asked John Lewis Financial Services Limited (John Lewis) to refund her the money 
she had paid to S, which totalled £2,400, which she paid using her John Lewis credit card.
John Lewis considered whether they could raise a chargeback for Miss M, but didnt do so 
as they thought it was out of time. They then considered Miss Ms claim under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) but rejected it. John Lewis said Ss terms and 
conditions stated that a customer was only eligible for a refund if they followed the 
programme completely and Miss M hadnt done this. They said Miss M had confirmed she 
hadnt joined live events and zoom calls which was one of the requirements under Ss terms 
and conditions.
Miss M complained to John Lewis about the outcome of her claim, but they didnt uphold it. 
So, Miss M referred the matter to us. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt recommend that Miss Ms 
complaint should be upheld. He felt, in summary, that John Lewis were correct not to raise a 
chargeback and had handled Miss Ms Section 75 reasonably as she wasnt contractually 
entitled to a refund.
Miss M didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Miss M and John Lewis 
that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I 
havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our 
powers allow me to do this.
There are typically two avenues here that John Lewis as the provider of credit could have 
considered.
Chargeback
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant, as Miss M does 
here, John Lewis (as the credit card issuer) can attempt a chargeback. The process involves 
the card issuer disputing payments made on the card through a dispute resolution scheme 
operated by the companies which run the card networks.
I would normally expect a credit card issuer to attempt a chargeback if there was a 
reasonable prospect of this achieving a successful outcome. John Lewis didnt attempt a 
chargeback in this instance and said this was because the claim had been made by Miss M 
beyond the 120 days allowed for under the card scheme rules.
Miss Ms request for a claim was essentially two-fold. One, that she didnt achieve the results 
she expected from Ss programme. And, two, that S didnt give her a full refund for this as 
set out in their terms and conditions. 
The chargeback that best suited Miss Ms claim was under the reason code goods and 
services were either not as described or defective. The card scheme rules for this set out 
that a claim should be made within 120 days from either when the services ceased, from the 
transaction settlement date or from delivery of the goods and services. 
It's unclear to me whether John Lewis considered anything other than the dates Miss M paid 
S the money, rather than, say, when S provided the goods and services. However, even if I 
felt that John Lewis interpreted the scheme rules incorrectly or unreasonably, I dont find this 
would have made a difference. I say this because, if John Lewis had raised a chargeback, S 
had already refuted the substance of Miss Ms complaint when she contacted them to 
complain. So, its likely S would have defended the chargeback in the same way and that 
John Lewis wouldnt have pursued the claim any further as a result. 
Section 75
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable I need to have regard to, amongst other 
things, any relevant law. In this case, the relevant law is Section 75 which says that, in 
certain circumstances, if Miss M paid for goods and services, in part or whole, on her credit 
card, and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, John Lewis 
can be held responsible. 
For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in 
place. This normally means the person who owns the credit card account needs to have a 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a company they have paid using 
their credit card. 
Our investigator said there were some doubts that the above criterion had been met 
because Miss M paid a different company to S. Ive seen that Miss M paid a company with a 
different name to that of S. However, Ive also seen that the CEO and founder of S replied to 
Miss M when she complained and that he gave website details to the company to whom 
Miss M made payments. So, although I dont know the specific links between both 
companies, I think it likely that there is a link between them to the extent that the debtor-
credit-supplier relationship is in place. In deciding whether there has been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation, Ive firstly 
looked at the express terms of Ss contract with Miss M. This set out that the goods to be 
provided were the digital content provided to Miss M, which was personalised to her and 
based on her own requirements. The contract also set out that the services to be provided 
was the coaching provided by Ss team.
Ive not seen persuasive evidence that S failed to provide either the goods or services to 
Miss M. Indeed, Miss M says that she participated fully in the programme, and Ive not seen 
evidence that she contacted S to say she wasnt receiving coaching or the digital content.
Ive also considered that The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implied a term into Miss Ms 
contract with S that the goods provided would be of satisfactory quality, by which the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
says that satisfactory quality includes whether the goods were fit for the purpose for which 
they were intended. 
It also implied a term that the services provided would be done so with reasonable care and 
skill. I believe reasonable care and skill to include what a reasonably competent provider of 
the same kind of service would provide.
Miss Ms complaint about the programme was that she didnt achieve the desired results she 
expected despite following everything she was told to do. By this, Ive assumed results to 
mean weight loss as Miss M has said that was why she agreed to enter the programme. So, 
it appears that Miss M feels the implied terms around goods and services as set out in the 
CRA werent adhered to because she didnt achieve the expected results from the 
programme. 
The difficulty here though is Ive not seen sufficient evidence that S provided a specific 
guarantee on what those results would be, or that Miss Ms disappointment with those 
results were down to a flaw with the programme or anything other than her subjective 
opinion on the results not being achieved. Ive also seen potentially conflicting evidence in 
that Miss M says she didnt lose any weight but one of Ss team sent a message saying 
there had been a 22kg weight loss. That might be a result of the first course Miss M 
undertook, which she is not complaining about, but this isnt sufficiently clear to me. Ss 
contract stated that the aim of the programme is to achieve individually desired body 
composition results in a short period of time to restore mental and physical health. I would 
imagine that the word aim is deliberate in that there was no guarantee. Overall, I cant say 
that Ss programme didnt provide Miss M with any benefit or results bearing in mind they did 
provide her with coaching and the digital content as set out in their contract and that theres 
no evidence that this was substandard in any way. 
As such, I dont find that S breached their contract with Miss M or that they misrepresented 
this, in respect of the requirements under the CRA. 
The other aspect of Miss Ms complaint is S failing to provide a refund in line with their terms 
and conditions. However, as I havent been able to find that Miss M didnt achieve results, I 
cant fairly say that S breached their contract in not agreeing to provide her with a refund. I 
realise that S, and John Lewis, has made other arguments around Miss M not completing all 
the requirements set out under this section of the contract. However, I dont find this to be 
relevant bearing in mind my view on this particular part of the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2023
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman