DRN-2960293
The complaint
Mr C complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC irresponsibly provided him with 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
AvantCredit provided Mr C with loans as follows:
Date 
takenAmount Monthly 
termTypical 
monthly 
repaymentDate 
repaid
Loan 1 16/06/15 £800 12 £82.78 31/07/15
Loan 2 10/10/15 £10,600 60 £364.90 18/12/20
When Mr C complained to AvantCredit it said following its creditworthiness and affordability 
assessments, it concluded that the loan amounts were affordable and sustainable based on 
Mr Cs financial circumstances and didnt uphold his complaint. So Mr C brought his 
complaint to us.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld as he didnt 
think that AvantCredit shouldve provided either of these loans. 
Mr C told us he is happy with what our adjudicator recommended. 
AvantCredit told us it now agreed with our adjudicator about loan 1 but disagreed with what 
hed said about loan 2 and asked for this to be reviewed further. 
So the complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. And having looked at the 
complaint afresh, I've come to the same overall outcome as our adjudicator. Ill explain 
why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about Mr Cs complaint.
As AvantCredit has agreed to uphold Mr Cs complaint about loan 1, then I dont need to 
consider this loan further save to include it in the redress. 
Ill be concentrating in my decision on loan 2.
AvantCredit asked Mr C about his income and expenditure and took steps to verify the 
amount of his take home pay. 
AvantCredit did its own credit checks to see how much Mr C was already paying towards 
servicing his existing debt and it had seen some of his bank statements.
I agree with our adjudicator that AvantCredits checks were reasonable and 
proportionate in the particular circumstances of this loan application. 
But, like the adjudicator, I dont think AvantCredit made a fair lending decision when it 
lent to Mr C based on the information it had gathered.
I say this because I dont think AvantCredit thought carefully enough about what all the 
information it had gathered showed about Mr Cs overall financial situation. 
Mr C had a verified monthly income of £2,500. AvantCredit recorded his total monthly 
expenses figure as £1,200 and gathered information that showed his existing credit 
commitments also cost him £440 a month.
This meant that when Mr C took out loan 2 with AvantCredit, the total amount he would be 
paying towards his outstanding credit commitments each month would be around £804  
equivalent to almost a third of Mr Cs monthly take home pay. 
I think our adjudicator was right to point out that this was such a significant proportion 
of Mr Cs monthly income it was a clear indication that Mr C was, in reality, already 
experiencing financial difficulty. And, because the new loan was needed for home improvements, it wouldnt have 
been used to repay any existing debt and free up any monthly disposable income for 
Mr C. 
I think AvantCredit ought reasonably to have been aware that taking further, costly 
lending was unlikely to help Mr C and more likely to potentially increase his 
indebtedness over the longer term. 
I think AvantCredit ought to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr C would be able to 
sustainably repay his loan over the five year term and, in these circumstances, AvantCredit 
should reasonably have concluded that it was not fair to lend to Mr C.
So, I am upholding Mr Cs complaint that he should not have been given loan 2  as well as 
his complaint about loan 1 which AvantCredit has already agreed to uphold.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that AvantCredit acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr C in some other way. 
But as Mr C has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on loans 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what AvantCredit did wrong. 
So, I think AvantCredit needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the principal amounts that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has been charged extra for loans that should not have been provided to him. 
In line with this Services approach, Mr C shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
AvantCredit should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of having been given 
loans 1 and 2. The repayments Mr C made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr C having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Cs credit file regarding these 
loans. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to take the steps set out above to 
put things right for Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman