DRN-2063093
The complaint
Mr M says AXA France IARD mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr M bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ive set out my reasons below:
The store card application form Mr M signed was completed to show that he wanted   
the PPI. But Mr M says he simply signed the form where he was told to by the store 
assistant, and that AXA didnt give him a proper choice about buying the policy. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr M and 
the store assistant when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took 
place many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over 
time. 
So without anything else to support what Mr M has told me, I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable for me to say that AXA didnt make Mr M aware the policy was 
optional.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means that Mr M had to cover 
his repayments.
But even if FICL had recommended the policy to Mr M, it doesnt look as though it 
was unsuitable for him, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Mr M  says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because 
of sickness or accident, and that his family wouldve helped if things went wrong.
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Ms employer benefits and would 
do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place would mean Mr M could use 
his employer benefits to cover other expenses. And it wouldve meant he didnt 
have to rely on his family. So I think the policy wouldve been useful to Mr M. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mr M would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I 
dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ive noted what Mr M has said about how long hed been in his job and how this wouldve 
affected his ability to make a successful unemployment claim on the policy.
Mr M had been in his job for four months when he bought the policy. He couldnt make a 
successful unemployment claim on the policy until hed been in the job for six months. 
There was a deferred period on the policy of one month, irrespective of how long the 
customer had been working. Which means the earliest Mr M couldve claimed wouldve 
been after hed been working for five months.
So its possible there may have been one month during which Mr M couldnt have made a 
successful unemployment claim. I dont consider thats an excessive amount of time. So I 
think even if Mr M had been aware of that, its unlikely it wouldve changed his decision to 
buy the policy.
As such, this point does not change my overall conclusions about the complaint.
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman