DRN-1852759
The complaint
Mrs B complained on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr B about a mis-sold a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy. 
The policy has long since been closed and Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, is now 
responsible for answering the complaint. 
Ill mainly refer to Halifax throughout this decision for consistency.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mrs B its unlikely to be 
upheld. She disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided 
not to uphold this complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt Mrs B genuinely and honestly feels the 
MPPI was mis-sold to her and her late husband. The main points of complaint seem to be 
that they were told they had to have the cover with their mortgage, and she also feels now 
that the MPPI wasnt something they really needed.
Nevertheless, the sale of the MPPI looks like it was in 1996 and we no longer have access 
to the documentation that was used. Given all this was 24 years ago that isnt particularly 
unusual, or indeed unreasonable. Businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely.
In cases like this, where there is very little hard evidence left to refer to, I need to think 
about what is more likely to have happened. I havent been presented with or seen any 
evidence which shows the MPPI policy was portrayed as compulsory. And I have to say 
that my experience of seeing many Halifax sales from that time period is that mortgage 
consumers were generally given a yes / no option about MPPI during the application 
process, if it was to be added. There then followed a series of welcome letters and 
explanatory documents about the cover.
On this basis, I think its more likely the MPPI was properly consented to.
Mrs Bs other point of complaint is that she and the late Mr B had good, steady jobs which 
already came with sickness benefits. I understand the point being made here, but Im afraid 
this doesnt make the MPPI unsuitable. For example, the mortgage was secured against 
their home and so the consequences of them not being able to keep up payments could 
have been serious. In the event of a successful claim, the MPPI cover was payable for up 
to 12 months. This would have been in addition to any other means they had in place at the 
time.
Both Mrs B and the late Mr B also appear to have been eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. Ive seen 
nothing that suggests it wasnt affordable for them. So although I cant say why they 
decided to buy this policy, I dont think it being recommended to them was unreasonable. I 
think the policy was a suitable product for Mrs B and the late Mr Bs consideration.
 
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously, I cant confirm after 24 years whether Halifax did everything right but having 
discussed the cover, I think Mrs B and the late Mr B would have been given the supporting 
literature explaining the policy rules and provided with the monthly premium costs. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs B, but I think there is enough evidence they engaged in 
discussions about this sale and this is supported by screenshots Ive seen from Halifaxs 
computer system. I think they would have gone through a number of steps to get the policy 
and I dont find anything that supports the complaint that the policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint by Mrs B and the estate of the late Mr B. And I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and the 
estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman