DRN-3953620
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank Plc mis-sold it a merchant services 
agreement leading to financial loss.
What happened
S says that its representative spoke on the phone with a member of the sales team while 
with a manager at a Barclays branch in September 2021. And then explained that S wanted 
to be able to process card not present (CNP) payments over the phone and which it couldnt 
do with its existing provider. S later signed the agreement. It took four CNP payments which 
came to over £2,200 in November 2021 and dispatched the goods relating to three of them. 
S had suspicions and was able to stop the fourth order going out. It lost money on the 
chargebacks that followed relating to the first three payments and which came to over 
£1,539 plus charges. It complained to Barclays as it believes it should have been told about 
the specific risks.
Barclays said that it had credited S with £50 to reflect the time it had been kept waiting on 
the phone about this complaint. But that the chargebacks had been applied correctly in line 
with the card scheme rules and its terms and conditions. It said that S had signed to accept 
those terms and conditions, and which set out that authorisation wasnt a guarantee of 
payment and that there were chargeback rights. It highlighted in particular Section 4.2 (e), 
and which gives an example of a potential chargeback when a cardholder denies authorising 
a CNP transaction. Barclays did then go on in its complaint response to set out the specific 
risks of CNP transactions and that S would need to make its own decision about whether to 
accept them by balancing the benefits of additional turnover against the possible risk of 
chargeback.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that we didnt know 
what was discussed with S during a sales call. But that the terms and conditions and the 
agreement and related material explains the chargeback process and the risks. There was 
nothing to substantiate this product being mis-sold. 
S didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. It said if it had known about the risks 
of CNP payments then it would have redirected customers from phone orders. The sales 
representative from Barclays had a perfect opportunity to mention those risks. S thought we 
should have spoken to the person involved at Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute resolution, and we arent a court for example able to 
direct certain witnesses give evidence under oath. Im going to make my decision based on 
what I think is most likely taking account of what S and Barclays have said and provided.
I understand that the representative of S was in the telephone meeting with Barclays and 
then the director signed the agreement. And that the terms and conditions had been sent to 
S with the agreement for signing. The issue is about what S says is an omission by Barclays 
to mention verbally what it sees as key information. I know that our investigator has asked 
for a copy of any call recording, but none is available from Barclays. I cant know exactly 
what was discussed and what was said specifically about CNP payments. I think it was 
reasonable to expect Barclays to provide the material that S would need to make an 
informed decision and also then for S to read that and ask any questions before signing. And 
Im satisfied that Barclays did so when sending the terms and conditions and which made 
reference to the risks involved generally and of chargebacks. 
I dont doubt that S was the victim of a targeted fraud in November 2021. It wasnt until the 
fourth similar CNP purchase within a matter of days that it became suspicious and then 
aware of this. And the payments it took were charged back and it had sent goods relating to 
the first three such orders.
In my view Barclays acted in line with the terms and conditions and the relevant card 
scheme rules in dealing with the chargebacks. And as S was responsible for them it was 
subject to a loss.
I dont have evidence to support that Barclays otherwise than went through a normal sales 
process here. And it provided S with information about the agreement and the product. So, I 
dont on balance have sufficient to find that Barclays is fairly responsible for the losses made 
by S.
I know that the director of S will be disappointed when I say that Im not going to be asking 
Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman