DRN-4277991
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited handled a request 
to withdraw funds from his investments. He says delays resulted in him having to pay 
additional interest and the matter has caused him upset and hassle. 
What happened
On 25 November 2022, Mr M submitted a request to withdraw £107,000 from his 
investments (an ISA and Collective Investment Plan). Based on his previous withdrawal 
requests, he was expecting to receive the funds within 48 hours. But by 28 November 2022, 
he hadnt received the funds. He contacted HBOS and raised concerns about the time it was 
taking to process his request.  
HBOS responded to the complaint  it didnt uphold it. In summary it said:
The withdrawal instruction was forwarded to the relevant department to be processed 
within its standard service timescale of three working days.
As the instruction was received after the valuation point of that working day, and the 
weekend is classed as non-working days, the funds were issued to Mr Ms bank 
account on 30 November 2022. So, the request was completed within a professional 
timescale.
Mr M responded and said he didnt actually receive the money until 3 December 2022. He 
said he had incurred an interest cost as he was due to make a payment to HMRC and the 
delay had left him out of pocket. He was upset that he had been given incorrect information. 
HBOS provided a second response and upheld the complaint in part. It paid Mr M £75 for 
the poor customer service it had provided.  But it maintained it had handled the request in 
line with expectations. In summary it said: 
During the telephone conversation when Mr M first requested a withdrawal he was 
told it can take up to eight working days. 
On 28 November 2022 Mr M called to check when payment will be made, the call 
handler explained that it would take up to eight working days to receive payment 
The shares were sold on the same day as it received the request, and the payment 
was authorised and left HBOS on 30 November 2022. Mr M has since confirmed the 
payment was credited to his bank account on 2 December 2022. This means the 
payment has been made within three working days of receiving the request and 
payment credited to Mr Ms bank account within two working days after this which is 
a reasonable timeframe.
Mr M didnt accept the responses and referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. One of our investigators looked int the complaint. She didnt fully uphold 
the complaint, but she did recommended HBOS pay compensation to Mr M. In summary she 
said:
She didnt find Mr M had been told in the past that all future withdrawals would be 
completed within 48 hours.
She reviewed HBOSs process and found it was reasonable for the transaction to 
take place within four working days of the first date of instruction.
HBOS cant be responsible for interest liabilities or charges incurred before the 
transaction was due to complete or after HBOS transferred funds were credited to Mr 
Ms bank account.
She suggested HBOS may need to liaise with Mr M to establish if there was any 
residual interest between the date the transaction was due to complete and the date 
the funds were received in Mr Ms account.  
She asked HBOS to increase its compensation for distress and inconvenience Mr M 
suffered by £125, making a total payment of £200. 
HBOS responded. It said: 
In reference to its processes, normally payments will be made within four working 
days, but there is no guarantee or assurance of this timescale. 
Mr Ms complaint isnt in respect of the terms quoted by the investigator, his 
testimony was that he was previously informed of a 48-hour timescale  which it has 
been concluded was not the case, but rather an expectation on Mr Ms part. 
When Mr M called in November 2022 he was informed of the likely timescales for
completion of his instruction, which was within the 30 days stipulated in the key terms 
of the plan.
Mr M responded. He said:
He doesnt agree that HBOS doesnt need to pay him interest. He has previously 
made the same transaction and in the past, they were completed within 48 hours. 
If he knew the transaction wouldnt be completed within 48 hours, he would have 
given his instruction earlier.  
He requests that all his losses due to interest incurred are covered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux Mr Ms complaint is he believes HBOSs handling of his withdrawal request has 
caused him a loss. In order to reach a finding on this Ive reviewed the circumstances of the 
transaction.
Mr Ms submissions indicate he had a payment he needed to make to HMRC, which he 
would be charged interest for during the period it was due. When he made his request to 
withdraw funds from his investments on 25 November 2022, he expected to receive the 
funds within 48 hours and this would prevent him from incurring further interest. But as the 
transaction didnt compete as quickly as he expected he has paid further interest. 
Firstly, Ive considered whether HBOS was required to complete the transaction within 48 
hours as Mr M suggests. Ive listened to the call Mr M had with HBOS when he inquired 
about making a withdrawal on 25 November 2022. During this call he asked how long it 
would take and the adviser confirmed he would expect the funds to be with Mr M by the end 
of next week and at the latest 7 December 2022. I acknowledge Mr M does appear 
disappointed with the timescale as he says he needed the money sooner. But he accepts 
the information given and follows the instructions to make a written request. 
HBOS has confirmed it received the request after 4pm on 25 November 2022.  As the 
request was made in the afternoon, the first day the investment could be valued and sold 
was on the next working day, which was after the weekend on 28 November 2022. HBOS 
has shown the investment was sold, proceeds were received, a payment was authorised 
and sent on 30 November 2022. Mr M confirmed to HBOS the payment credited in his bank account shortly afterwards, but he didnt manage to transfer his payment to HMRC (via his 
solicitor) until 7 December 2022. 
Ive also listened to a call from earlier in 2022 where Mr M made another withdrawal request. 
During this call he was told he could expect the funds requested within two days. The 
information regarding this request appears to have created the expectation that all requests 
made would be done within this timescale. I also note Mr M says another request he made in 
2014 was completed in 48 hours. I understand why Mr M had an expectation on how quicky 
he could receive withdrawn funds, but I havent seen that HBOS guaranteed a timescale of 
this length for every withdrawal. He was given clear information in the 25 November 2022 
call about timescales  and he wasnt told he would receive his funds within 48 hours, 
despite his desire to receive money as soon as possible. So my finding is HBOS isnt at fault 
for not completing the transaction within 48 hours. 
Mr M claims that HBOS should refund him all of the interest he has paid. From the evidence 
hes sent it appears the payment he needed to make attracted ongoing interest. Initially his 
solicitor calculated the interest due up to 29 November 2022, but as the eventual payment 
wasnt made until 7 December 2022 further interest was calculated.
I acknowledge Mr Ms disappointment that the investigator didnt think HBOS needed to 
return all the interest he paid as a result of the time it took him to complete the withdrawal. I 
agree with the investigator that the initial larger interest payment of over £2,000 isnt 
something HBOS can be held liable for. As mentioned this was calculated by the solicitor to 
the 29 November 2022. As Ive found HBOS didnt need to complete the transaction within 
the 48 hours timescale Mr M wanted, this amount of interest was something he was always 
going to have to pay. The second interest payment of around £200 was calculated for the 
period up to the 7 December 2022. The majority of this period was after Mr M had received 
the funds from HBOS as there was a short delay between him receiving the funds from his 
investment and them actually being received by HMRC (vis the solicitor). This type of delay 
isnt surprising when there are a number of transactions involved and large amounts of 
money are being sent between several parties. HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited 
isnt responsible delays after funds from the investment were sent, so it wouldnt be fair to 
consider it liable for interest after the point funds had been received. I know Mr M believes 
HBOS is liable for the interest he incurred, but I havent found the evidence supports this to 
be the case. While I note the investigator suggested further liaison between the parties to 
see if there was any interest HBOS is responsible for, but for the reasons Ive explained I 
dont find this will result in any liability on HBOSs part. 
HBOS has admitted some failings on its part due to the overall handling of the situation  
including not returning a call as promised and the length of time it took to address the 
concerns Mr M raised. It also seems there has been some confusion over timescales as Mr 
M has been given different information when making withdrawals. While I acknowledge he 
wasnt given a guarantee, it is apparent Mr M was left unsure and confused about how long 
it would take for him to receive funds as he had received different information at different 
times. This did cause him frustration and upset in November 2022 when he was trying to get 
things complete as quickly as possible to avoid further charges. I note HBOS has already 
paid him £75, in recognition of the fallings it identified. The investigator suggested the impact 
was greater, and therefore further compensation was suggested. I think an increased 
payment of £125 is reasonable in the circumstances to recognise the impact on Mr M.  
For the reasons described above, I dont find it is liable for the financial losses Mr M claims, 
but I find HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited should pay him compensation for the 
impact of how it handled the situation. Having assessed this, Im of the view that a further 
compensation payment of £125 is a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint. My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited to pay him 
£125 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman