DRN-3928583
The complaint
Mr D complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc settled a claim he made on his 
agricultural insurance policy.
Reference to AXA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr D holds an agricultural policy with AXA. He complains about how it dealt with a claim 
made on his policy.
AXA received a claim from a third-party alleging Mr D hit their vehicle. Mr D disputes this. 
And hes not happy he found out the third party was taking the matter to court via the third 
party themselves. He thinks AXA should have told him itself.
AXA apologised for Mr D hearing from the third party and not them. It offered him £100 
compensation. But it said based on the evidence it had seen  which included CCTV footage 
- it was settling the claim as a fault claim. It said this was something Mr Ds policy entitled it 
to do.
Mr D wasnt happy with this response. Hes adamant he didnt hit the other vehicle and 
wants to see the CCTV AXA relied on. He didnt accept the £100 compensation and brought 
his complaint to us.
One of our investigators didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought AXA was entitled to 
settle the claim on Mr Ds behalf, and she thought its decision to settle as fault was 
reasonable. She thought the £100 compensation AXA offered was fair.
Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He also said hed only received a 
cheque for £50, not the £100 AXA said it was sending.
The case has therefore come to me to decide. AXA has since said its cancelled the £50 
cheque it sent and reissued one for £100.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this wont be the answer Mr D was hoping 
for.
My role isnt to decide who was at fault for this incident, or whether an incident actually took 
place. I wasnt there  so I cant possibly say for certain what happened that day. I 
understand Mr D feels very strongly that he didnt hit the third-party vehicle. And from the 
information on file it looks like that day was distressing for Mr D whatever happened. But I 
wont be deciding what happened that day. What Ill be deciding is whether or not AXA fairly 
settled the claim made by the third party.
Mr Ds policy with AXA has a term in it  like most comparable policies  allowing it to take 
over the defence and settlement of any claim made on it. The policy says AXA has full 
discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any claim. This means 
ultimately, the final say on how a claim is settled lies with AXA, not Mr D. So, naturally, this 
may lead to AXA making a decision Mr D is unhappy with.
As stated, its not for me to say whether I think Mr D hit the third party as it alleges he did. 
But I do need to consider whether AXAs decision to settle the third partys claim on the 
basis that he did is fair and reasonable based on the evidence provided.
And in this case, Im satisfied AXAs decision is fair and reasonable. The report into the 
damage to Mr Ds truck isnt conclusive, but the evidence points to the CCTV footage 
showing a collision took place. I understand Mr D wants to see this CCTV footage and hasnt 
been able to. I can understand that frustration  especially considering his strength of feeling 
in relation to what happened. But the link to it has since expired so it cant be viewed. I also 
havent been able to watch the CCTV. But importantly Im satisfied AXA has seen it, and 
more than that, Im satisfied AXA has a legal opinion on the prospects of successfully 
defending the claim based on the CCTV footage. That opinion was that it would be difficult to 
defend because the CCTV shows Mr Ds car hitting the third partys as alleged.
Therefore, Im satisfied AXA taking over this claim and settling it by accepting liability on 
Mr Ds behalf was a reasonable decision. And a decision Mr Ds policy with AXA allowed it to 
take.
AXA has acknowledged it could have done more to keep Mr D updated, and if it had, he 
might not have had the same level of distress caused by receiving the third partys court 
summons. But like our investigator, I agree £100 compensation is a fair amount to 
compensate for that.
Because AXA has reissued its compensation to Mr D, I require it to do no more in relation to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman