DRN-3025294
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS) following the return of his car.
What happened
On 30 March 2017, Mr B was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS. He paid a deposit of £18,500.19, and the agreement was for £26,389.81 over 36 
months, with 35 monthly payments of £250.82 and a final optional payment of £20,900, if Mr 
B wanted to purchase the car. The agreement permitted 14,000 miles a year (42,000 over 
the term of the agreement), with any excess mileage being charged at 12 pence plus VAT a 
mile.
In March 2020, when the agreement ended, Mr B arranged to return the car. But, because of 
the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, MBFS werent immediately able to collect the car. And 
it wasnt collected until 3 August 2020. MBFS didnt charge Mr B for his usage of the car 
from 29 March to August 2020, even though this was outside of the agreement.
But MBFS did invoice Mr B for the mileage hed done above the permitted 42,000  at the 
time of collection the car had done 46,627 miles and Mr B was charged £666.29. Mr B has 
said that, because his usage of the car increased, he exceeded the permitted mileage. He 
also said that, at the end of the Government imposed lockdown, he also had to replace the 
tyres on the car, at a cost of £500.
Mr B complained to MBFS about the excess mileage charges. He didnt think they were fair 
as he had to use the car for work and family purposes. And he was financially unable to 
afford to replace the car until it had been returned to MBFS. He also thought that MBFS 
should pay for the replacement tyres. MBFS didnt agree, and they thought the charges were 
fair. Mr B was unhappy with MBFSs response, and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said the circumstances that meant MBFS couldnt collect the car were 
outside of their control. And he didnt think MBFS had acted unreasonably by not charging 
any additional payments, only for the excess mileage. He also said that Mr B had an 
obligation to return the car within MBFSs Vehicle Return Standards (VRS), so he didnt think 
MBFS needed to refund Mr B the cost of the replacement tyres.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said that MBFS couldve contacted him about the 
collection of the car being cancelled, but they didnt. And if theyd have told him he wouldve 
had to pay for the excess mileage and the tyres, he wouldve dropped the car off at one of 
their dealerships. He also said the new tyres were an added expense caused by MBFS not 
taking the car back as originally agreed.
Because Mr B didnt agree with the investigator, the matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr B signed on 29 March 2017, and this clearly says the 
maximum mileage allowable, and how much would be charged if that mileage was 
exceeded. The agreement also includes the VRS, and Im aware that MBFS also send a 
copy of the VRS to customers around six months before the end of the contract. So Im 
satisfied that Mr B wouldve been reasonably aware of his obligations under the agreement.
When the agreement came to an end, Mr B arranged for the car to be collected. But this 
didnt happen due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While Mr B didnt arrange with MBFS to 
continue to use the car until it was collected, this is what happened. And its this additional 
usage that Mr B says caused the total allowable mileage to be exceeded. 
Mr B was in possession of the car from 30 March 2017 to 3 August 2020  just over 40 
months. And with a mileage allowance of 14,000 a year, this would allow for a maximum of 
46,667 miles over 40 months. And Mr B drove 46,627 miles in this period. So I can 
understand why he believes he shouldnt be charged for excess mileage.
But, for me to say that MBFS should allow Mr B 40 months mileage, instead of the originally 
agreed 36 months mileage, then itd be reasonable for MBFS to extend the entire agreement 
for 40 months, including the requirement for Mr B to make monthly payments. So, if this was 
the case, then Mr B shouldve paid an extra £752.46 in payments, rather than £666.29 in 
excess mileage. 
Given this, Im satisfied that MBFS acted reasonably by charging Mr B the lesser of the 
additional payments and the excess mileage charge.
Mr B said, if hed returned the car in March 2020, he wouldve replaced it with another car. 
But he wouldve had ongoing costs relating to the replacement car. So the period in question 
wouldnt have been free motoring. And if I were to ask MBFS to waive the excess mileage 
charge, this would essentially give Mr B a free motoring period and put him in a position of 
betterment. 
So, for the reasons stated, I wont be asking MBFS to reduce or remove the excess mileage 
charge.
Turning to the matter of the tyres, Mr B had an responsibility to maintain the cars upkeep 
during the term of the agreement. And then, once the car was returned, any charges that 
may be payable under MBFS VRS would become payable. So, because Mr B kept 
possession of the car for a further four months, he was responsible for maintaining the car 
during this period. Which also included replacing the tyres.But Ive also considered what wouldve happened if Mr B had been able to give the car back 
at the end of March 2020. This was the start of the lockdown, and Mr B has said that he 
needed to replace the tyres at the end of lockdown. Due to the nature of the lockdown, its 
reasonable to assume that Mr B wouldnt have been doing his normal mileage during this 
period. So the car, including the tyres, wouldnt have had much extra wear.
Because of this, I think its highly likely that the tyres wouldnt have met MBFS VRS if the 
car had been handed back in late March 2020. And Mr B wouldve been charged for 
replacing the tyres. So he wouldnt have found himself in a different situation and he would 
always have had to pay for the tyres to be replaced. And I wont be asking MBFS to 
reimburse him for these costs.
Mr B has also raised the lack of communication he received from MBFS during this period. 
And Ive seen that, in their final complaint response, MBFS accepted that they couldve done 
better. And they offered a 10% reduction in the excess mileage charges by way of an 
apology. I think this offer was reasonable in the circumstances, and its now for Mr B to 
decide whether to accept this offer or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman