DRN-3224654
Complaint
Mr F has complained that Nine Regions Limited (Nine Regions) provided him with an 
unaffordable logbook loan. 
  
Background and my provisional decision of 20 December 2021
Nine Regions provided Mr F with a loan of £1,250 in March 2011. This loan had an APR of 
466% and a 78-week term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £3,570.06 was due 
to be repaid in 78 weekly instalments of £45.77.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and didnt think that she had enough to say 
that Nine Regions had done anything wrong or treated Mr F unfairly. So she didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr F disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.
On 20 December 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on       
Mr Fs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by saying that Nine Regions hasnt been able to provide much information from the 
time that it provided this loan to Mr F. I didnt think this was surprising given just how long it 
has been since the loan was provided. That said, bearing in mind the monthly payment, the 
interest rate and the fact that the loan was secured on Mr Fs car, I did think that, in order for 
its checks to have been reasonable and proportionate, Nine Regions would have needed to 
have found out about Mr Fs income and expenditure and also have taken some steps to 
verify what it was told.
I thought that if Nine Regions would have done this here it would have seen that even 
though Mr F might have had an above average income, he had defaulted on a number of 
credit accounts in the lead up to the loan being provided. So, in order to remain reasonable 
and proportionate, I thought that Nine Regions would have had to have got an understanding 
of why there was so much recent adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file. 
   
Mr F wasnt able to provide all his bank statements from the time of this loan. However, what 
I did have from the time and in the years afterwards suggested that Mr F was gambling 
heavily and this was the reason why Mr Fs credit file was in the way that it was and he most 
likely had mortgage arrears at this stage too. And I think it unlikely that it would have been 
fair and reasonable for Nine Regions to lend in these circumstances. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that either Nine Regions didnt carry out 
reasonable and reasonable and proportionate checks before providing Mr F with his loan, or 
if it did the information it saw meant that it more likely than not made an unfair lending 
decision.  
Either way, I set out my intention to issue a final decision which found that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more likely than not have alerted Nine Regions to the fact that 
Mr F was in no sort of position to make the payments on this loan without suffering 
significance adverse consequences. And as the loan was, in any event, provided in these 
circumstances, I was satisfied that Nine Regions didnt act fairly and reasonably towards    
Mr F.
As Mr F had to pay and was being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan that he 
shouldnt have been provided with, I was satisfied that he had lost out as a result of what 
Nine Regions did wrong. So all of this left me intending to issue a final decision which found 
that Nine Regions needed to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties confirmed receiving my provisional decision and their acceptance of it. Neither 
party provided anything further for me to think about.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in 
order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
I thank the parties for their responses. I can confirm that Ive read and considered everything 
theyve said and provided. 
I set out the reasons why I was intending to uphold Mr Fs complaint in my provisional 
decision. And as both parties have confirmed their acceptance of it, I see no reason to alter 
my conclusions. So Im still upholding Mr Fs complaint and Nine Regions should put things 
right.
  
Fair compensation  what Nine Regions needs to do to put things right for Mr F
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Fs complaint for Nine Regions to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr F paid whether to Nine Regions itself or 
any third-party debt-purchasers any outstanding balance on the account was sold on 
to;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments, if any, from the 
date they were made by Mr F to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nine Regions to take off tax from this interest. Nine 
Regions must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for 
one.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 20 December 2021, 
Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. Nine Regions Limited should put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman