DRN-3718225
The complaint
Ms I complains that National Westminster Bank Plc acted irresponsibly by mis-selling her a 
loan.
What happened
In 2018, Ms I went to a NatWest branch and took out a 5-year loan for £47,600 with monthly 
repayments of £936.50. This was to consolidate a previous loan from 2016 and provide Ms I 
with extra money which NatWest records say were to purchase a car. Ms I had also had a 
previous loan from NatWest that was taken out in 2014.
There is a dispute over the purpose of this 2018 loan. Ms I says she does not drive and, 
when asking for help, was advised to take out a loan and say it was for a car. However, she 
says that the money was actually intended to help her with her existing borrowing and 
household expenditure, along with funding visiting her family and a relatives education.
In 2020, Ms I unfortunately lost her job and visited NatWest to tell them she was struggling 
financially. NatWest provided a financial health check and referred her to their financial 
difficulties team. 
Ms I kept the repayments up on the loan until around October 2020, when she entered a 
debt management plan with a third party. This led to the interest being frozen and the 
monthly payment reducing.
Ms I subsequently made a complaint to NatWest and asked them to write off the remainder 
of the loan. She said she visited the branch in 2018 seeking help for financial difficulties and 
ended up leaving with a much bigger loan for which she couldnt afford the repayments. 
NatWest had a different recollection of events and couldnt see they had done anything 
wrong. In their response, they said they lent the money after carefully assessing Ms Is 
outgoings. Also, that they correctly applied their lending policy and process and Ms I 
confirmed she was a live-in carer without rent or mortgage commitments and that she was 
confident about her job security. In addition, they say, at a later date, Ms I advised them she 
had lost her job but said she was confident she would soon be working again. 
Ms I complained to our service, however our investigator was unable to conclude that 
NatWest has treated Ms I unfairly or unreasonably. 
As Ms I remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
.Having done so, for the following reasons, I have come to the view that I agree with the 
investigator and dont uphold this complaint.
Our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints is set out on 
our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. As 
it is clear that lenders must ensure that any credit that is affordable and sustainable for the 
borrower, and I kept this in mind when deciding Ms Is complaint.
As there are two very different versions of the events that took place when Ms I visited 
NatWest in 2018, I have to reach a decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances. 
I first looked at all the available information on NatWests 2018 lending decision. The checks 
NatWest conducted showed Ms Is monthly income and expenditure were consistent and 
stable and the loan repayment figure, when £936.50, was less than 50% of her income. 
Also, at the time of the loan Ms I was a live-in carer and her cost of living at the time was 
approximately 22%.This shows that more than a quarter of her then £1,938 monthly income 
would be available for other expenditure. While much of the loan was for Ms I to spend on 
visiting family and relatives education  a good portion of the loan was also intended to 
repay existing borrowing on credit and store cards  which usually attract a high rate of 
interest. So, although the purpose of the loan is in dispute, Im satisfied that it was both 
reasonable and proportionate and was affordable at the time. 
Whilst the loan application didnt highlight any financial difficulties or issues with affordability, 
I have considered whether or not it was likely that Ms Is visit to the NatWest branch in 2018 
was to seek help repaying her 2016 loan. For the following reasons Im not persuaded that 
she was denied help and mis-sold a larger loan.
Although Ms I doesnt drive and says she was told to give a car purchase as the reason for 
the loan, I noticed that NatWest records show Ms I had a previous application for a loan from  
2014 which also had the stated purpose as being for a car. In addition, the representative 
who processed the 2018 loan offered the loan with a 14-day cooling off period and has a 
different recollection of events. In her testimony the representative says financial difficulties 
were not discussed either at the 2018 meeting, or at a later get-together, when Ms I had 
unfortunately lost her job. 
Ive considered Ms Is representatives comments that the whole purpose of Ms I being in 
UK was to send approx. £500 per month back home to support her family and the money 
being sent back home was therefore in excess of a quarter of her income. Whilst I am 
sympathetic and understand the pressure Ms I would have been under; as mentioned-above 
the loan was affordable based on the proportionate and reasonable checks NatWest did 
here. Also, I cant see any evidence of Ms I sharing information about a plan to send such a 
significant proportion of her income back home. Furthermore, Ms I says that a proportion of 
the loan was to spend on schooling for her nephew and niece. 
If Ms I was additionally sending home £500 after the loan was agreed in 2018, this would 
have meant she had little spare money and would have been highly susceptible to any 
income changes. Yet Ms I was able to meet her loan commitments in full up to October 
2020. This indicates that Ms Is difficulties repaying the loan began when her employment 
status changed. At this stage there is evidence of NatWest being made aware and acting 
responsibly by providing Ms I with support through a financial health check and referring her 
to their financial difficulties team.
While I understand and sympathise with Ms Is difficulties, I havent seen anything which 
suggests NatWest have acted unreasonably or unfairly here and I dont think they need to do 
anything further in this case.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman