DRN-3236657
The complaint
Mrs B complains about a decision by Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) not to uphold
a claim she brought to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section
75).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mrs B entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook in September 2014. The
loan was to fund the installation of windows that would be supplied by a company I will call
S, and who also brokered the finance agreement. The cash price of the goods was
£10,762 and the total amount repayable during the course of the ten-year agreement was
£28,110.40.
In March 2020 Mrs B raised a section 75 claim with Shawbrook. She was represented by a
claims management company but for ease, and because Mrs B is named on the finance
agreement, I will refer only to Mrs B in this decision.
Mrs B told Shawbrook that under section 75 she had a like right to claim to them as she did
to the supplier who had now ceased trading. She said the finance agreement had been
misrepresented to her as S had tricked her through a concoction of lies and high-pressure
sales behaviour. Mrs B also said the business had not completed a credit worthiness check
and she was concerned that her warranty would be invalidated as the supplier had ceased
trading.
Shawbrook didnt uphold Mrs Bs claim. They questioned why it had taken so many years for
Mrs B to raise the issue and they explained that the delay had limited the evidence they
could obtain. They explained that the consumer did have a right to cancel within 14 days and
they didnt think there was sufficient evidence of misrepresentation. They said that they were
prepared to consider any warranty claims in line with the terms of the ten-year warranty
Mrs B had with S. 
Mrs B therefore referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided her
opinion. She didnt think there was sufficient evidence that the agreement had misled Mrs B
into taking out the finance agreement.
Mrs B disagreed and asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs B, but I agree with the investigators opinion.
Ive also looked at Mrs Bs concerns about the checks Shawbrook completed before they
approved the loan. I couldnt see that our investigator had considered that aspect of Mrs Bs
complaint and my thoughts on those issues are set out below in the section entitled
Creditworthiness.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances,
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs B made a claim through them for
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Misrepresentation
If Mrs B was told something that was false and if that false statement led her to enter into an
agreement she wouldnt otherwise have entered into, I would consider the agreement had
been misrepresented to her and Id ask Shawbrook to take some action.
Mrs B says S lied to her. She says that in 2014 they told her, for instance, that they had
been in business for much longer than they had and that shed save a lot of money if she
had the windows fitted.
Unfortunately, as so much time has passed and S are no longer trading, it has not been
possible to obtain their version of events. On the very limited evidence I have I dont think it
would be reasonable to suggest theres sufficient to suggest Mrs B was told something that
was false. 
Irresponsible Lending
Mrs B has referred me to guidance from the Office of Fair Trading that sets out the type of
deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper business practices a business
shouldnt engage in when negotiating a contract of this type. She also says S ignored
relevant regulations and directives.
Ive read Mrs Bs account of what happened during the sales meeting, but Ive not seen any
other significant additional evidence to demonstrate for instance, that the sales agent
overstayed his welcome or applied coercive or improper tactics.
I dont think the account of what happened on the day is sufficient for me to fairly consider
the sales agent most likely breached guidance or ignored regulations and directives. I say
that because:The terms of the finance agreement Mrs B signed were clear. The amount to be
financed was unambiguously explained on the front page and a written adequate
explanation set out the key features and costs in simple terms. Mrs B was given time
to consider the agreement and withdraw within 14 days if she changed her mind. I
think its reasonable to expect Mrs B to have considered the contract before agreeing
to it.
It was several years before Mrs B complained about the matter. I think the passage
of time diminishes the strength of Mrs Bs complaint as I think its likely she would
have become aware of improper or coercive practices earlier. I also think its
reasonable to suggest Mrs Bs recollection of the meeting with the sales agent would
have diminished over that period and would not be as reliable as it would have been
had the complaint about these issues been raised immediately.
Whilst Mrs B has referred me to a courts decision against S for improper business
practices around the same time as Mrs B signed up for her finance agreement, Mrs
Bs agreement was not one that the court was asked to look at. It would not therefore
be fair to suggest there is enough evidence this agreement had been arrived at in the
same inappropriate manner, given the evidence Ive been able to consider.
As the supplier is no longer trading Ive not been able to consider their version of
events.
Creditworthiness
Mrs B says the business didnt complete an income and expenditure review before providing
the loan. She says that rules and regulations require a business to complete a reasonable
assessment of a consumers creditworthiness before approving finance.
I couldnt see that this had previously been considered by the business, but they have now
been prepared to give permission for us to consider that issue. Because it hadnt previously
been considered I have issued my provisional decision on this complaint so that Mrs B and
Shawbrook have an opportunity to respond to my provisional views on the matter.
Shawbrook will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So,
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Shawbrook told us that Mrs B had provided information to them about her and her partners
income and that they performed a credit scoring process to assess affordability. A business
should carry out proportionate checks before they approve finance. A review of the credit file 
wouldnt have given Shawbrook a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was
affordable without knowing Mrs Bs regular commitments.
So, I dont think the checks Shawbrook completed were proportionate. I could therefore go
on to consider what Shawbrook would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable
and proportionate affordability checks. Perhaps by reviewing Mrs Bs bank statements for
the period and by asking her for her credit file.
But if Mrs Bs disposable income was high enough for her to afford the loan after completing
that analysis I would not ask the business to take any further action. Thats because in those
circumstances it would not be reasonable to conclude that Shawbrook ought not to have
advanced credit to Mrs B or that shed been financially disadvantaged by their willingness to
do so.
Mrs B isnt claiming that she could not afford the loan but simply that the checks werentproportionate. So, Im not persuaded she has been disadvantaged or that Shawbrook ought
not to have advanced credit to her and I dont think they therefore need to take any action in
that respect.
Warranty
Shawbrook have explained that although S are no longer able to fulfil the warranty on
Mrs Bs windows they are willing to consider any future warranty claims on behalf of S under
the relevant terms and conditions of the warranty. I think, in the circumstances, thats a
reasonable resolution.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook didnt wish to provide any further information but Mrs Bs representatives did. 
They said:
S had been convicted of criminal fraud for falsifying prices in 2016 and the 
circumstances were the same as they were in Mrs Bs case. They said if Shawbrook 
had told Mrs B about this then she wouldnt have wanted to do business with the 
organisation.
There was a different price listed on the sales contract from the finance agreement 
and that meant the agreement had been misrepresented to Mrs B.
That S had made false statements about the product availability in order to illicit a 
quick decision and that this deprived Mrs B of time to make an informed decision. 
And that theyd used coercive tactics.
Ive thought about what Mrs Bs representatives have said. Ive already commented on 
whether I think there was evidence of coercive sales tactics and Ive explained that I dont 
find Mrs B testimony alone, sufficient to persuade me there were. For the same reasons I 
dont think there is sufficient evidence of false statements being made about product 
availability which would have deprived Mrs B of time in which to make an informed decision.
Ive also explained, under the misrepresentation section, above, that if Mrs B was told 
something that was false and if that false statement of fact led her to enter into an 
agreement she otherwise wouldnt have, I would think the agreement had been 
misrepresented. Whilst Mrs B asserts that the sales prices were different, I think the price on 
the agreement Mrs B entered into was very clear. Mrs B was given time to reflect on that 
agreement and to withdraw if she wasnt in agreement with it and it was several years before 
she complained about the matter. I think if any variation in price would have been noticed it 
is therefore unlikely Mrs B would not have proceeded as it seems she was happy to pay the 
amounts stipulated in the finance agreement.
Mrs B signed the finance agreement in 2014 and the criminal prosecution of S that her 
representatives have referred to was in 2016. Shawbrook would therefore not have been 
aware of that prosecution at the time the agreement was reached and, regardless, I dont 
think they had to reveal information about any prior prosecutions.Overall, Ive not been provided with any additional information that has led me to change my 
provisional decision on this matter. So, that provisional decision now becomes my final 
decision and Im not therefore asking Shawbrook to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman