DRN-2538820
The complaint
Mr P complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited havent met the claim hes made 
under the Parts and Garage Cover (PGC) element of his roadside assistance policy.
Mr Ps policy appears to cover a number of members of his family, some of whom are 
involved in this complaint, but as hes brought the complaint to us, Ill just refer to him.
And a number of other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Acromas are 
responsible for it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mr P had a breakdown in July 2019 and was told by Acromas the issue was the spark plug. 
He was told it was OK to keep on driving, but he thought it best to take it to a garage to get 
things checked over. The garage said theyd checked the coolant and it was all fine. He 
broke down again in September and the patrolman cleared out water which they said should 
sort the problems. He broke down again in October 2019  and after the patrolman cleared 
out water again Mr P was advised this time to go to a garage to get the issues investigated. 
He said the garage checked everything, and found it was all fine. He broke down again in 
December 2019  with water being cleared out of the spark plug, and again told its OK to 
drive. 
Mr P says he broke down again in January 2020 and was told his car needed to be towed to 
a garage, as the problem was the core plug, which had damaged the spark plug. Mr P says 
this wasnt mentioned before, and he was told it was OK to drive. And when he submitted a 
claim to Acromas they turned it down, so he complained.
Acromas replied in February 2020 and said theyd been contacted regarding a claim which 
had been turned down in relation to the October 2019 incident. They quoted the advice the 
patrolman had given  which was Mr P should take his car to a garage to investigate why 
water is getting into the spark plug but they couldnt see he had. Acromas added as the fault 
existed prior to the most recent issues, they werent able to consider the claim.
Unhappy with this, Mr P asked us to look into things  explaining he had been to the garage 
in October 2019 and provided evidence to support this.
One of our investigators considered things. She felt Acromas hadnt acted fairly when turning 
down the claim for Mr P not going to the garage  as hed subsequently proven he had. But 
our investigator explained Mr Ps evidence hed been to the garage wasnt enough to show 
what had been repaired. And, based on the available evidence, she felt the damage thatd 
happened to Mr Ps car was excluded under the terms of the policy. So, she didnt uphold 
Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P didnt accept this. He said hed got evidence to show the fault should be covered, which 
our investigator put to Acromas to consider  as she wasnt sure theyd seen it. The 
evidence was dated January 2020, and simply showed a number of items had been 
replaced on Mr Ps car.
Acromas assessed it but decided it didnt change anything for them and they still felt they 
were turning down the claim fairly. They said the fault first started in June 2019 at around 
70,000 miles, and then the last fault was in January 2020 with around 75,000 miles on the 
clock. So, Mr P has been driving the car with a known fault for nearly 5,000 miles. Acromas 
said this would be excluded under the policy terms. They added the fault wasnt stopping the 
car from being driven, didnt need a replacement or a repair, so the claim isnt covered. 
Acromas added Mr P has had claims since, which have been covered when the correct 
policy procedure has been followed.
Our investigator considered this, and still felt Acromas had acted fairly as there wasnt 
sufficient information to show theyd turned down the claim incorrectly. As Mr P didnt agree, 
the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Acromas initially turned down the claim because of inconsistencies in the information Mr P 
provided, and now are explaining theyre turning it down because hes driven the car since.
Ive firstly thought about whether the claim should be covered under the policy terms, and if I 
think it isnt, then I dont think whether Mr P has or hasnt been inconsistent is something Id 
need to consider in detail. And, while I understand Mr P will be disappointed, I think Acromas 
have acted fairly. Ill explain why.
The purpose of roadside assistance policies is generally to get people back on the road  
and in attempting repairs by the very nature of this type of policy the ability to diagnose 
issues may be limited. Mr Ps had issues ongoing for around six months before it seems the 
problem was finally solved. From the information I have, which includes what Mr P has told 
us, whenever Acromas attended his car they got it running again by carrying out some 
repairs. Mr P has expressed concerns that Acromas didnt realise the extent of the problem 
and / or carry out sufficient repairs.
But, Im not sure I can hold them responsible for this. Mr Ps policy as I mentioned above is 
designed to get him back on the road. When hes subsequently taken his car to a garage, 
the reports Ive seen make no mention of Acromas doing anything wrong. In fact, the reports 
from different garages in July and October dont directly or indirectly point to Acromas 
making an incorrect diagnosis  and certainly not the extent of the repairs required in 
January 2020. So, Mr P has taken his car to two different garages, neither of whom have 
carried out the extent of repairs a third garage did in January 2020. That suggests to me 
either the issue was more complex, not immediately obvious, or otherwise required some 
specific investigation to establish what the issue was. 
I agree with our investigator, I dont think Mr P has done anything wrong which has led to 
this situation. But I can only hold Acromas responsible if I think theyve either done 
something wrong or turned down the claim unfairly under the policy terms.
Theyve pointed to the term that says Mr P has carried on driving his car after the initial 
issues  nearly 5,000. Thats not in dispute  and does again suggest Acromas fulfilled their 
primary function  which was to get Mr P back on the road.
Overall then, Ive not seen any evidence to say Acromas have made an error with their 
diagnosis at the roadside. And I cant say Acromas have acted unfairly by turning down the claim based on the information theyve got. For those reasons, I wont be asking them to 
meet the claim Mr P has made.
And, because Ive found Acromas havent done anything wrong, I dont need to consider 
further their concerns about Mr P being inconsistent in his claim.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman