DRN-3679430
The complaint
Mr T complains that Prepaid Financial Services Limited withheld access to the funds in his 
account.
What happened
Mr T had an account with Prepaid. In October 2020, Prepaid blocked the account. 
Dissatisfied, Mr T complained to Prepaid. Prepaid said that the account had been closed due 
to unsatisfactory operations. It said it could no longer provide Mr T with access to the 
remaining balance or give him any further information regarding his account. Mr T then 
referred the complaint to us.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 1 February 2023. I said that based on 
what Id seen so far, I wasnt minded to tell Prepaid to do anything further. I said I thought 
Prepaid was acting in line with its legal and regulatory requirements when it suspended the 
account. While I appreciated Mr T wanted further explanation, Prepaid wasnt required to 
give reasons. Prepaid had said that if Mr T wanted the funds back, hed need the senders of 
the funds to request a recall through their bank.
I noted that wed asked Prepaid for further details of what happened, but Prepaid had only 
provided some of the information wed requested. But wed also asked Mr T for further 
details of what he was using the account for  and he hadnt been able to provide 
documentary evidence such as payslips or invoices showing where the funds came from. 
Wed also asked him for details of other payments into the account which he hadnt 
provided.
I said Id expect Mr T to be able to provide some explanation of the payments through his 
account  and given the limited information Mr T had provided, I couldnt conclude Prepaid 
acted unfairly. So I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
I said Id consider any further comments I got by 27 February 2023.
Mr T has responded to say he doesnt agree with my findings. He says hes already sent us 
everything he had. Prepaid said it had no further information to offer. Ive therefore 
considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr T nor Prepaid has sent me anything further to consider.
I therefore reach the same conclusions as my provisional decision for the same reasons.
I acknowledge the difficulty Mr T says he now has providing information about the payments 
into and from his account. 
But given everything Mr T and Prepaid have told us, Im satisfied that Prepaid was acting in 
line with its legal and regulatory requirements when it suspended the account. Mr T hasnt 
been able to provide information showing what he was using the account for. I cant 
conclude that Prepaid acted unfairly.
If Mr T wants to recover the funds, I can only suggest he asks the people who sent them if 
they can recall them through their own banks.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman