DRN-3482808
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as A complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) blocked its account and 
denied it access to the account funds.
A is represented by one of its directors, Mr F. 
What happened
In October 2019 Metro blocked As accounts, while it carried out a review. In January 2020, 
it requested information from Mr F to help complete its checks. Metro completed the review, 
and says it gave A 60 days notice of its intention to close its account on 18 March 2020. The 
notice to close letter didnt specifically reference As account (only Mr Fs three personal 
accounts), but Ive seen emails that demonstrate Mr F was aware As account was blocked 
and that Metro intended to close it.
While Metros review was ongoing, Mr F complained. He wasnt happy that Metro had 
blocked his account without telling him why, and he wanted the block to be lifted. He said 
Metro issued its final response to Mr Fs complaint on 31 January 2020. It said it had blocked 
the accounts in line with its terms of business and said it would contact him when it had 
further information for him.
When Mr F brought his complaint to our service, our investigator upheld it in part. She said 
Metro was entitled to block and close the account and didnt have to explain the reasons for 
its actions. But she felt Metro had taken longer than it should have done to complete its 
review and noted that A would have experienced inconvenience as a result of having to 
open a new business account with no fall back account in the meantime. She said Metro 
should pay A £200 in recognition of the inconvenience the delays had caused A.
Metro accepted our investigators findings, but Mr F didnt. He said his business had been 
affected by the issues and that it had to borrow £15,000. He asked for an Ombudsman to 
review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
The banking industry is heavily regulated and all banks in the UK have various legal and 
regulatory obligations, with which they must comply. As part of those obligations, sometimes 
banks have to review their customers accounts and request certain information or 
documents. While the review is ongoing, theyre entitled to block the accounts and deny 
access to any account funds.
Having looked at all of the evidence, Im satisfied Metro was entitled to take the actions it 
did. Metro has explained that it was acting in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
As account and, having reviewed the same, Im satisfied that it was and that it was 
complying with its legal and regulatory obligations in doing so.
I understand Mr F wants to know why Metro blocked As account and why the review lasted 
so long. However, Metro isnt obliged to disclose the reasons for the block and ongoing 
review, so I cant say it did anything wrong by not telling Mr F when he asked Metro why As 
account had been blocked.
Delays
Metro has, though, accepted that it took longer than it should have to review As account. 
So, Ive looked at the impact Metros delays had on A. Mr F said he had to borrow £15,000 
from family to fund his business. However, As closing balance was £7.80 so I cant 
reasonably conclude that A was forced to borrow the money it said it did as a result of 
Metros delays.
I note Mr F complained to Metro during the block about charges being applied to As account 
that he said were affecting As credit score. However, Metro has demonstrated that the 
charges applied were account maintenance fees and that it reimbursed the same on account 
closure. And Im satisfied this had no impact on As credit score.
And, while I dont question that Mr F experienced personal distress during the block, I will 
address that in a separate decision regarding his personal accounts. This decision relates to 
A only and because a limited company cant feel distress, I can only make an award for 
inconvenience caused to A by Metros actions, and not any distress As directors felt 
personal.
With all that being said, I accept A was inconvenienced by the extended block. Although the 
block didnt deprive A of significant funds, A was inconvenienced by having one of its 
directors diverted away from day to day business. This continued for a few months longer 
than it should have, so I award A £200 in compensation for the inconvenience it 
experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC must pay A £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman