DRN-2697437
The complaint
Mr P complains that he should pay an early settlement charge on his personal loan from
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
 Mr P applied for a personal loan of £30000 from NatWest in May 2017, repayable over 72
months - interest rate 11.9% APR. The agreement form was signed on 5 June 2017.
NatWest then declined the loan on 13 June 2017. Mr P appealed this decision and the loan
was agreed. It was drawn in August 2017.
Mr P complained. He asked if he could repay the loan early and was told thered be an early
repayment penalty  which was in the loans terms and conditions. But he had no
recollection of seeing this. He didnt have a copy of a signed agreement form.
NatWest said that Mr P signed the loan agreement form. This included a clause which said
that an early repayment charge would be made. Between the loan being declined in June
2017 and Mr Ps successful appeal, the interest rate had increased from 11.9% to 13.9%. Mr
P wanted the loan at the old rate. So, they got him to sign a free-format authority which
referred to the original loan agreement. This was the only way they could set up the loan on
the old rate.
Mr P brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said that Nat West had told him
the standard loan agreement had been signed  and this included the early repayment
clause. So, Mr P had to pay the early settlement costs to NatWest.
Mr P asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision, where I said:
The issue here is that Mr P says that he doesnt recall signing an agreement for the new
loan  and he doesnt have a copy of it. Therefore, he says he shouldnt have to pay an early
repayment fee which was part of it.
What happened is that Mr Ps loan application  in May 2017  was declined. Hed signed
the agreement form for a loan of £30000 over 72 months. The loan agreement included the
costs of early settlement, or overpayment, in its clause 6. The loan was then declined by
NatWest - on 13 June 2017. NatWest wrote to him on 15 June 2017 to say so. He appealed
that decision and NatWest then agreed the loan. But in the meantime, the interest rate on
NatWest personal loans had gone up from 11.9% APR to 13.9% APR. Mr P 
understandably  wanted the lower rate. But NatWests systems wouldnt allow this, so they
got Mr P to sign a piece of paper (which looks like it was typed in the branch) - dated 2
August 2017 - this said he accepted the loan of £30000 over 72 months at a rate of 11.9%
APR and that he had received a copy of the NatWest Customer Copy of the Loan
agreement  it quotes the loan agreement number which was signed by Mr P on 5 June
2017. But  they didnt get him to sign a new agreement for the new loan.
And the first loan was declined  and so that agreement was effectively redundant. And so,
any references back to it were also invalid. NatWest shouldve followed their normal
procedures and asked Mr P to sign a new agreement form  this would (no doubt) have
included the clauses which explained the costs of early repayment. But as things stand  Mr
P didnt sign a new loan agreement and therefore is justified in arguing he had no knowledge
of the early repayment penalties.
Whats happened here  is that NatWest tried to be helpful to Mr P  to give him the lower
rate of interest. But because their systems wouldnt allow them to do this, they did a manual
fix at the branch to work around it. So, they relied on a signed piece of paper and didnt get
him to sign a new agreement form. So unfortunately, in this case, as a result of trying to do
the right thing for Mr P, they didnt follow their processes. NatWest have acknowledged this.
But what this means is  they dont have a signed agreement form for Mr Ps loan.
Ive considered whether NatWest should pay anything to Mr P for distress and
inconvenience. Initially, they said they couldnt find an agreement form and this caused
some confusion. On the other hand, NatWest were trying to do the right thing for Mr P in
giving him the lower interest rate  so hes had the benefit of that. So, on balance, I dont
think an award of compensation is needed here.
Its my understanding that Mr P hasnt yet repaid the loan  but my provisional decision is
that NatWest must allow Mr P to repay all, or some of his loan early without early settlement,
or overpayment costs.
NatWest and Mr P accepted my findings. In fact, we learnt that Mr P repaid the loan, 
including the early repayment fee, in October 2020. So, my final decision needs to take that 
into account  and NatWest should refund to Mr P the amount of the early repayment fee 
which was paid by him when he repaid the loan. The loan agreement states this to be 58 
days interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both NatWest and Mr P have accepted my findings, I wont be departing from what I said 
in my provisional decision for the reasons I gave in it. So, my final decision is that NatWest 
should pay to Mr P the early repayment fee that he paid when he settled the loan in October 
2020. The loan agreement states this to be 58 days interest.
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc must pay to Mr P the early repayment fee which he paid 
when he repaid the loan in October 2020. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman