DRN-1783008
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1993. Mr L and Ms S say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1993 Mr L and Ms S took out PPI at the same time as arranging a mortgage during a 
branch meeting. 
The policy provided protection for Mr L and Ms S' mortgage payments in the event Mr 
L couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment - the policy was in his sole 
name. The policy would pay out for up to 24 months per claim and it cost around £31 a 
month.
At the time of the sale Mr L was employed, and he said he was entitled to 12 months sick 
pay. He told us he had more than three months' of his income in savings he could've used to 
make his repayments - it appears he told Nationwide he didn't have other means available - 
and he was in good health at the time.
Nationwide's records show the PPI ended in 1996 and the mortgage account ended in 2004.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said the evidence 
showed that PPI was a condition of Mr L and Ms S' mortgage - it was compulsory. And there 
was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for them.
Because Mr L and Ms S disagree, the complaint comes to me for a decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr L and Ms S' complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mr L and Ms S were hoping for, Ive 
decided not to uphold their complaint. My reasons are set out below.
 
did Mr L and Ms S have a choice about PPI? I can see this is Mr L and Ms S' main complaint point. They say they were told they had to 
have PPI to get the mortgage, despite Mr L saying and discussing with the Nationwide 
representative that it wasn't really suitable for him. I've therefore considered this carefully.
Nationwide hasn't got any of the paperwork from the time of the sale. And this isn't surprising 
- business aren't obliged to keep records indefinitely. And in this case the sale happened 
more than 25 years ago and the account closed more than 15 years ago. 
But Nationwide has provided an example mortgage application page from around the time 
Mr L and Ms S took out their mortgage and PPI.
Looking at this it appears that Mr L and Ms S were right in what they say - PPI was a 
condition of the mortgage, so they would've been told they had to have it. Section seven of 
the mortgage application was titled 'Unemployment, Accident and Sickness Protection'. And 
here it says: 'Do you want your mortgage payments to be covered in the event of accident, 
sickness or unemployment?' with 'Yes' and 'No' options to choose from.
But importantly, immediately underneath the tick boxes it says: 'Please note that where the 
loan is over 90% of the property value or purchase price, whichever is the lower, Mortgage
Payment Cover is compulsory.' 
Nationwide's records show Mr L and Ms S borrowed around 94% of the property purchase 
price - so over the 90% threshold. As such, it appears PPI was compulsory as Mr L and Ms 
S have said.
Around this time, it was not uncommon for lenders to either offer discounted or special 
mortgage rates on the condition that a customer also had to take out
one or more of its insurance products  for example PPI - or for them to insist on PPI being 
taken out for high loan to value mortgages of typically more than 90%. And so long as the 
lender made it clear to the borrower that this was the case, in my view there was nothing 
unfair or unreasonable about this practice.
So did Nationwide make it clear to Mr L and Ms S that the mortgage was conditional on 
them taking out PPI?
I think it did. As I said above, the mortgage application said that PPI was compulsory for 
mortgages over 90% of the purchase price, and I think this was clearly set out. I'm also 
mindful that, whilst Nationwide no longer has a copy, Mr L and Ms S' mortgage offer letter 
would've most likely reflected the terms of the lending and that PPI had to be taken out with 
their mortgage. As was usual industry practice, a copy of this would've also been sent to Mr 
L and Ms S' solicitor for them to review.
Overall, I think Mr L and Ms S had enough information to understand that the mortgage 
Nationwide was offering them required them to take out PPI.
the information about PPI
While I've found Mr L and Ms S should reasonably have understood the mortgage required 
them to take out PPI, I've gone on to consider whether they got enough clear and timely 
information about the PPI to make an informed decision about whether to go ahead with this 
particular mortgage with PPI.
Because of the limited available evidence, I accept its possible Nationwide didn't provide 
everything Mr L and Ms S needed to know about the PPI policy to make an informed decision about it  for example whether the cost was disclosed clearly or if the significant 
exclusions or limitations of cover were clearly brought to their attention.
But I find it unlikely they would've gone ahead without understanding something about the 
cost. They also paid it for a number of years, so if it was at odds with their expectation I think 
they would've queried it at the time.
I also don't think it was fundamentally wrong for Mr L and importantly I don't think it operated 
fundamentally differently from what Mr L and Ms S would've expected - i.e. it would've paid 
their mortgage payments if Mr L was off work ill, or he lost his job. Mr L wasn't caught by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those for existing medical conditions, 
which might have made the specific mortgage with PPI less attractive or of less value to him. 
And despite Mr L's existing means available to him, I still think it could've proved useful to 
him and Ms S had the insured risks become a reality.
So, taking everything into account, I think Mr L and Ms S likely had enough information to 
understand that the mortgage Nationwide was offering them at the time required them to 
take out PPI because of the percentage of borrowing their required.  And while there 
might've been gaps in the information Nationwide provided about the PPI itself, because the 
policy wasn't fundamentally wrong for Mr L and it didn't operate significantly differently from 
what I think Mr L and Ms S expected, I dont think their decision to take out the mortgage 
with PPI wouldve been any different had Nationwide done anything more.
Ive thought about everything Mr L and Ms S have said in bringing their complaint to us - 
including what they've said about the risk of illness and redundancy being significantly lower 
than the average worker given Mr L's employment circumstances (Mr L says there was zero 
risk of redundancy at the time.) But these points don't alter my decision.
I think if Mr L held the strength of view about the security of his employment and the 
inappropriateness of the policy at the time of the sale, in light of my findings above, he and 
Ms S could have ultimately decided to go and seek a mortgage without PPI elsewhere.
But I'm not persuaded by what Mr L says - I don't think the policy was fundamentally wrong 
for him such that if Nationwide had done anything more he and Ms S would've acted 
differently and not taken out the mortgage with PPI.
Mr L was taking on a not insignificant amount of debt secured on his and Ms S' home - he 
was also ultimately responsible for it as the sole household wage earner. So, if Mr L found 
himself unable to work for an extended period due to something unforeseeable such as an  
accident for example, at the point his sick pay stopped or it was reduced (I think it's more 
likely than not Mr L's 12 month sick pay benefit would've been paid at half-pay for some of 
the time) then the policy could've played a useful part in helping Mr L and Ms S keep up with 
their mortgage repayments. Ultimately, if things went wrong I think it could've helped them 
protect their home.
I also said above that Mr L wasn't caught by any of the significant exclusions and limits of 
cover. So in my view there was nothing about the policy Mr L and Ms S didn't know at the 
point they decided to go ahead, which I think would've caused them to question the cost and 
benefit proposition and act differently had Nationwide done anything more.  
This means I don't think Mr L and Ms S have lost out as a result of having PPI - so 
Nationwide doesn't need to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionFor the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman