DRN-2734064
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then SMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr L. The car here was 
around seven years old and had completed about 63,749 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
The car has experienced a number of issues since it was supplied to Mr L. A vacuum sensor 
was replaced; there was a problem with the ABS system; the bumper needed re-bonding; 
there was a water leak that meant the car was overheating and, in March 2020, having only 
been in possession of the car for four months, Mr L had to return the car to the dealership 
because of a problem with the transmission. A subsequent independent inspection has 
suggested that fault is likely to do with a faulty mechatronic unit.
Whilst this wasnt a new car I dont think a reasonable person would consider a vehicle of 
this age and mileage to have proven suitably durable as its had so many issues in a 
relatively short space of time. So, I think the car has been of unsatisfactory quality as its not 
been durable enough.
Putting things right
In the circumstances I think SMF should now allow Mr S to reject the car and that they 
should end the finance agreement he has with them.
  
They should refund all the finance instalments Mr S has paid but its only fair that Mr S pays 
for the use hes had from the car. The car was returned to the dealership in March 2020 and 
in those four months Mr S travelled about 5,500 miles in it. Thats a little more than average 
usage so I think it would be fair for SMF to retain the first four monthly finance instalments. 
SMF will need to add interest to the refunded instalments as Mr s has been deprived of that 
money.
Mr S wasnt provided with a courtesy car when his vehicle was being repaired so I think SMF 
should refund the hire car charges he incurred to keep himself mobile. They will again need 
to add interest to this refund and also to the refund of the two inspections Mr L had 
completed at the franchised dealership and to the refund of the cost to recover the car to the 
dealership in March 2020.
There appears to be some damage to the cars bodywork that is shown in the independent 
inspection report. The terms of Mr Ls finance agreement require him to return the car in a 
satisfactory condition and if any charges are due for refurbishment of the car to the required 
standard SMF may still levy a charge.
Its clear that Mr L has been distressed and inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to 
take the car back to the garage on several occasions, organise his own transport when the 
car was being repaired and organise to have the car transported to the dealership when they 
wouldnt collect it. Hes also had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could 
have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances I think SMF should pay him £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited to:
allow Mr L to reject the car and end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr L;
refund all of the finance instalments Mr L has paid except for four that the business 
can retain in respect of the use Mr L has had from the car;
refund the cost of the three hire cars Mr L had to arrange when his car was being 
repaired and add 8% simple interest to this refund from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
refund the cost Mr L incurred to have his car transported to the dealership in march 
2020;refund the cost of the two reports Mr L had to obtain from the main franchised 
dealership;
pay Mr L £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ls credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman