DRN-2938779
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the way Erudio Student Loans Limited handled his complaint. Hes also 
unhappy that it spoke to a third party about his account without authorisation to do so. And 
that his account was sold on. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus for giving the reasons for my decision. 
I should add that Ill only be addressing the matters relating to this specific complaint and 
wont be revisiting complaints already considered by our service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr L alleges that Erudio has taken actions such as withholding a final response letter 
in an attempt to stop him from referring his complaint to this service in time. He thinks 
Erudio shouldve emailed communication to him rather than contacting him by post. 
This service has already considered whether a specific complaint was brought to us 
in time so, as mentioned above, I wont be revisiting that. But Ill address this 
complaint more generally. There appears to be some suggestion Mr L hadnt given 
his permission for the email address to be stored, though there isnt a great deal of 
information available. But, I find this to be somewhat irrelevant as businesses are 
simply required to issue a final response in writing. Theres no requirement around 
how it sends this  either an email or a letter is appropriate. And Mr L admits to 
having thrown correspondence away when it didnt come via his preferred channel. 
So I dont have enough information to reasonably say that Erudio has acted unfairly 
or in error here. 
Mr L is unhappy that the loan account was sold on to a third party. But Erudio has 
confirmed this isnt the case  its still the owner of the account but its now managed 
by a third party which is the main point of contact for Mr L. I cant see that this has 
caused him any detriment and Erudio has mentioned that he should contact the third 
party if he wishes to arrange an affordable and sustainable payment plan. 
Erudio hasnt been able to provide documentation to prove that Mr L authorised it to 
speak with family members about his account. But Mr L hasnt been able to provide 
sufficient proof that Erudio actually did contact anyone else about his account. Based 
on what Ive seen, a family member recalls receiving a letter that was seemingly 
about Mr L, but they cant remember who it was from. Mr L has forwarded an email 
chain between himself and his family member in which they say No, you cannot 
categorically state that they sent me a letter. So I cant safely say the letter referred 
to was even from Erudio or in relation to this loan, and it would therefore be 
unreasonable to suggest it disclosed personal information about Mr L.
For these reasons, while Im sorry to hear about how stressful Mr L is finding the situation 
with his student loan, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Erudio Student Loans 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman