DRN-4061998
The complaint
Ms F complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) mishandled a claim on her motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms F had a hatchback car. For the year from 24 October 2021, she had the car insured on a 
comprehensive policy. UKI was the insurer responsible for dealing with any claim.
Unfortunately on 27 October 2021, Ms F and a third party were involved in an incident on a 
roundabout. The incident was recorded on Ms Fs dashcam, which provided images from 
the front and rear of her car.
In late September 2022, Ms Fs renewal was becoming due, and she contacted UKI for an 
update on the claim.
In early October 2022, UKI told Ms F it proposed to accept a 50/50 split of liability between 
her and the third party. Ms F complained to UKI about shortcomings in its investigation and 
communication and about the spit liability.
By a final response dated late October 2022, UKI turned down the complaint about 
investigation and split liability. But it said that it had failed to provide Ms F with updates for 
almost 11 months. So it said it was sending her a cheque for £250.00 as an apology.
Ms F brought her complaint to us in mid-February 2023. She said that UKI should record the 
claim as non-fault.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld (in part). He didnt agree 
the claim should be changed to non-fault. But he thought that £250.00 compensation didnt 
make up for the lack of communication. He recommended that UKI should increase the offer 
of compensation by £200.00 to truly make up for their lack of proactiveness.
UKI accepted the investigators opinion.
Ms F disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
There are no road markings on the roundabout itself but there is clear signage on the 
approach to the roundabout. 
The third party disregarded the highway code. 
If UKI had contacted the witness, she could have provided a statement that the other 
driver appeared to start to take that exit but then change his mind without warning.
In her initial statement, she said the witness even commented that she thought the 
third party must have been under the influence of something.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where an insurer has made an outlay on a claim, its common practice for the insurer to 
record the claim as a fault claim against its policyholder unless and until it makes a full 
recovery of its outlay, typically from a third party or their insurer. Where liability is split 
between the policyholder and the third party, each insurer will recover part of its outlay but 
not its full outlay.
Most motor insurance policies contain a term allowing the insurer to decide how best to deal 
with liability in relation to a third party. UKIs policy included the following term:
3. Claims procedure  Our rights and your obligations
a. You must not admit liability for or negotiate to settle any claim without our written 
permission.
b. We are entitled to:
 take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your 
name
 take proceedings in your namefor your, or our own benefit.
In my view, that term meant that  on a question of how best to deal with an issue of liability 
in relation to a third party  UKIs view would prevail over its policyholders view.
Ms Fs incident with the third party and the need to make a claim were, in my view, bound to 
cause her some upset and put her to some trouble.
Im satisfied that UKI noted Ms Fs report of the circumstances of the accident. She said she 
had indicated and manoeuvred to exit the roundabout slightly ahead and in the lane to the 
right of the third party who was positioned to take the same exit in the left lane but who 
without indicating right  carried on round the roundabout, hitting her car in the middle of its 
nearside.
From its file, Ive seen that UKI tried (unsuccessfully) to contact the witness a couple of days 
after the incident. Later, UKI received clear dashcam footage of the incident. So I consider 
that it was proportionate to rely on that rather than chasing the witness.
Unfortunately, the third party or his insurer wouldnt accept full responsibility for the accident.
Im not persuaded that the witness evidence wouldve made any difference to the outcome.  
Ms F disagreed with the witnesss assessment that the third party was under the influence. 
Even if the witness had confirmed that the third party had admitted responsibility at the 
scene, he or his insurer might still have disputed responsibility later.
There was a period of about nine months when UKIs file shows no contact with the third 
partys insurer. There was an even longer period when UKIs file shows no update to Ms F. I 
regard these as serious shortcomings. However, UKI had the dashcam footage. So Im not 
persuaded that the delay prejudiced the outcome.
UKIs investigation included noting the nature and location of the damage to Ms Fs vehicle. 
The investigation included, in particular, a review of the road layout and the dashcam 
footage. UKI noted that the roundabout had no road-markings prohibiting the third party from 
using the left lane to continue beyond the main exit Ms F was using. Im satisfied that UKI 
did a reasonable and proportionate investigation.UKI weighed up the cost and risk of court proceedings against the prospects of success. UKI 
decided to settle on the basis of split liability. Split liability is not unusual in the context of an 
accident on a roundabout. Keeping in mind the policy term Ive quoted, I dont consider that 
UKIs decision was unreasonable or unfair to Ms F. 
Ms F objected on the basis of road signage before the roundabout. But UKI didnt agree that 
the signage was clear in her favour. 
By the time she brought her complaint to us, Ms F had found an instructional video from a 
local driving instructor. But I dont think that had been available to UKI at the time it made its 
decision. And Im not persuaded that it wouldve been enough to persuade the third partys 
insurer to accept liability or enough to justify the cost and risk of court proceedings.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to record the claim as non-fault.
I accept that any claim, and particularly a fault claim, is likely to have an adverse effect on 
the policyholders premium from the next renewal date for a few years. 
Putting things right
UKIs delay made Ms F believe that the outcome shouldve been different. Ive disagreed 
with that. Nevertheless Ms Fs belief wasnt unreasonable and caused her upset. So I find it 
fair and reasonable that UKI paid Ms F compensation.
We have published guidelines for assessing compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Weighing up the impact on Ms F of the shortcomings Ive found in UKIs service, I consider 
that the investigators recommendation of a total of £450.00 is higher than I wouldve found 
fair and reasonable. However, UKI has agreed to it, so I find it fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Ms F  in addition to the £250.00 already paid  a further 
£200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman