DRN-1833416
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy about problems hes had using his debit card. He wants Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to compensate him for the inconvenience and embarrassment caused. 
What happened
Mr H says hes had difficulty using his Barclays debit card in shops and at ATMs. He wanted 
Barclays to pay him £100 to recognise the problems this has caused him. 
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said there was no evidence in 
Barclays records to show it had declined Mr Hs card or that it had put any measures in 
place to stop Mr Hs card working as it should. Because there was no evidence Barclays had 
prevented Mr Hs debit card from working, our investigator concluded itd done nothing 
wrong.  
Mr H has asked for an Ombudsman review. He maintained that his debit card had been 
declined by Barclays when hed tried to use it in shops and in ATMs  but that he couldnt 
provide evidence to support that because the transactions didnt take place. He said the 
phone calls hed had with Barclays after his debit card didnt work proved this did happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr H feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Its clear from the phone calls Mr H made to Barclays that he was having problems with his 
debit card and that he was very frustrated by that. But those calls alone are not evidence 
that Barclays did anything wrong.  
Ive looked at Barclays internal records and listened to the phone calls. But theres nothing 
to show that any action by Barclays led to Mr Hs card being declined as he describes. 
Theres also nothing to suggest Barclays had put a block on Mr Hs card to stop it working. I 
understand the point Mr H makes about the evidence not being readily available because 
transactions didnt take place or took place over the phone. But that actually supports the 
argument that these problems werent because Barclays declined the payments  because if 
they had, they wouldve appeared on Mr Hs records.
As Barclays explained to Mr H during a phone conversation, it seems more likely the 
problems he encountered were because of issues with the card itself, the ATM machines he was using or the merchants end of the transaction. None of which, from the evidence Ive 
seen, can be linked to a failing by Barclays. I can see Barclays offered to send Mr H a new 
card but he declined this offer. It also explained to him that he could speak to the provider of 
the ATMs he was having problems with  as if these werent Barclays ATMs, then Barclays 
wouldnt be responsible for any reported problems. 
Barclays has also told us about standard security checks it has in place for all customers, 
such as asking a customer to enter their PIN number rather than using the contactless 
system. If this security system was applied when Mr H was using his debit card, as appears 
to have been the case, I cant say Barclays acted unreasonably. The system is in place to 
protect Mr Hs account, whilst still allowing him access to it. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Barclays hasnt done anything wrong here. So, 
Im not going to ask it to compensate Mr H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman