DRN-2194123
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Advantage Insurance Company Limited refused to correct a 
fault claim they had recorded against Mrs M on a motor insurance policy.   
What happened
Mrs M was involved in a road traffic accident in November 2018. Advantage settled the claim 
based on Mrs Ms admission of liability at the time. Subsequently, Mrs M went to court to 
face a charge of driving without due care and attention and was found not guilty. After the 
court decision Mr and Mrs M asked Advantage to correct their records to show a non-fault 
claim. However, Advantage said they wouldnt change their records as the claim had been 
settled several months earlier after Mrs M admitted liability.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Advantage and they provided a final response in November 
2019. Advantage said they wouldnt change the recording of the fault claim as they werent 
able to recover their outlay on the claim. However, Advantage offered to allow the No Claims 
Discount (NCD) as a gesture of goodwill and said they would pay Mr and Mrs M £150.00 for 
the inconvenience the matter had caused. Advantage also offered to reimburse the £145.00 
excess Mr and Mrs M had paid on the policy, and provide a separate letter or email stating 
the claim wasnt Mrs M s fault so she could pass it to future insurers.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the final decision from Advantage and brought their 
complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things for Mr and Mrs M and 
thought that Advantage hadnt done anything wrong in recording the accident as a fault 
claim. Our investigator thought the offer already made by Advantage was a fair and 
reasonable one as Advantage had settled the claim on Mrs Ms admission of liability.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigator and asked that an ombudsman decides the 
complaint, and the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to apologise for the time its taken to provide Mr and Mrs M with a decision 
on their complaint. We are doing all we can to ensure we provide final decisions as quickly 
as possible, and over recent months we have taken on more new ombudsman managers to 
help us achieve this.
The crux of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is whether Advantage should correct their records to 
show Mrs Ms claim was a no-fault claim, rather than the fault claim they registered. Mr and 
Mrs M have provided comments that relate to our investigators view and I will respond to 
these after Ive dealt with the crux of the complaint. I understand that Mr and Mrs M will be 
disappointed with my final decision, but for much the same reasons as our investigator I 
wont be upholding the complaint. I will now explain why.
Fault claim and court decision
In their response to the investigators view, Mr and Mrs M say Mrs M only provisionally 
admitted liability for the accident based on the erroneous statements of a witness. 
Advantage say that although they are unable to provide a copy of the first call with Mrs M, 
they are satisfied from their notes of the call that Mrs M admitted liability. As Im not able to 
listen to the initial call made by Mrs M, Ive considered the evidence available to help me 
decide what is likely to have happened. 
Ive seen the complaint form Mr and Mrs M sent to our service and it says Mrs M told 
Advantage she was at fault for the accident. And Ive seen the call note provided by 
Advantage says that liability had been checked with Mrs M. Then, later in December 2018, 
Advantage emailed Mr and Mrs M to explain they were settling the claim on a fault basis. 
The email said, based on details you provided, Im going to accept liability to the third party 
on a 100% fault basis. Im satisfied that Advantage is entitled to decide to accept liability as 
the policy explains, If they feel its appropriate, your Insurer will be entitled to admit liability, 
for the costs covered under this Policy on behalf of you or any person claiming indemnity 
under the Policy. 
So, taking all this into account, I consider that its more likely Mrs M admitted liability for the 
accident, rather than provisionally admitting liability. And, because of this admission, I dont 
consider Advantage did anything wrong when it recorded a fault claim.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ms comment that the email sent by Advantage in December 2018 
said their assessment was partly based on the vulnerability of the third-party as a 
motorcyclist. However, in my opinion this referred to the factors considered by Advantage 
when settling the claim after liability had been admitted by Mrs M. 
I appreciate that after the court decision, nine months later, Mr and Mrs M told Advantage 
the court decision was evidence she wasnt at fault. However, by this time, Advantage had 
settled the claim in full and the claim had been closed. This meant that although Mrs M had 
been cleared of a motoring offence at the time of the accident, Advantage wasnt able to 
defend the claim and had paid-out the reasonable amount requested by the third-party 
insurers.
In a case brought by the Crown Prosecution Service, the court decided Mrs M wasnt guilty 
of a motoring offence in criminal law. However, the claim Advantage dealt with was settled 
under civil law. The court decision cant be used by Advantage to defend their position 
because theyve already settled the claim in full based on what Mrs M told them at the time 
of the accident. The claim was therefore recorded as a non-recoverable claim under the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Ms policy, or as the policy explains, as a fault claim. So, I dont 
consider Advantage has done anything wrong and they acted reasonably in recording the 
claim as a fault, and I wont be telling them to take any further action.
I will now address the other comments made by Mr and Mrs M in their response to our 
investigator.
Mr and Mrs M say its unreasonable to expect insurers to assess written submissions from 
another insurer when pricing a motor insurance quote through on-line comparison sites. 
These sites are there to provide quotes and it will sometimes be a requirement to provide 
further information for the insurer to consider. Ive already decided that Advantage didnt do 
anything wrong in recording the fault claim, and I consider that the offer from Advantage to 
provide a letter to pass on to potential new insurers seems a reasonable one. I wont be 
telling Advantage to provide such a letter, but I would expect them to honour this offer should 
Mrs M request it.Ive seen that in their final response Advantage says they agreed to allow an additional years 
NCD as a gesture of goodwill. However, Mr & Mrs M say that our investigator didnt consider 
that the NCD would be protected entirely anyway if there were no more than two 
irrecoverable claims made. The email Advantage sent Mr and Mrs M in December 2018 
said, Unless youve protected your no claim discount, which allows for two unrecoverable 
claims on your policy over a three-year period, it will be affected by this incident. Advantage 
accept Mrs M wouldve kept her NCD due to protected NCD, however they say she wouldnt 
have gained the year in which the accident occurred. In other words, if she joined Advantage 
with 10 years NCD, if she had a claim she would remain with 10 years NCD; however, 
Advantage allowed a further one-year discount and she would have had 11 years NCD when 
the policy year completed.
Mr and Mrs Ms motor insurance policy with Advantage says, If youve chosen to protect 
your no claims discount, this will be shown on your schedule. Please note that this doesnt 
guarantee your premium will remain the same, and, Even with your no claims discount 
restored, your premium may still increase following a claim. The premium of a motor 
insurance policy is based on the risk determined by an underwriter and Advantage explained 
these can go up after a claim. The NCD is then applied to the premium. There is no 
guarantee the premium is protected, and we cant tell an insurer what they should charge for 
the assessed risk. I hope this clarifies the position regarding Advantage allowing the NCD.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs M say Mrs M hasnt been put back in the position she wouldve 
been in if she hadnt had the fault claim recorded against her. I agree with Mr and Mrs M 
here. The fault claim is recorded, and they will likely have to provide an explanation of the 
circumstances to any new insurer. However, the crux of the complaint is that Advantage 
accepted the admission of liability from Mrs M and settled the claim. And as Ive already 
decided Advantage can record this as a fault claim, I dont consider its reasonable for 
Advantage to put Mrs M back in the position she wouldve been. Instead, they have offered 
to allow the extra year NCD, refund the £145.00 excess Mrs M paid and pay Mr and Mrs M 
£150.00 as a further goodwill gesture. So, although our investigator said she felt Mrs M was 
back in the position she wouldve been in, I think it would have been more accurate to say 
Advantage had taken reasonable steps to mitigate the impact of Mrs M admitting liability 
when she did. Importantly though, Im satisfied that this doesnt affect my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman