DRN-3129575
The complaint
Mrs K, represented by Mr K, complains about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 
Limited (HL). Shes unhappy that she wasnt notified of changes to a bond she held which 
meant that she lost out on accrued interest when it was sold. For ease of reading I will only 
refer to Mrs K. 
What happened
 Mrs K is an execution only customer of HL. She purchased an Enquest plc retail bond in 
September 2018 which she sold in August 2019. She complained to HL in 2019  she was 
unhappy that she hadnt received any accrued interest when she sold the bond. 
HL didnt uphold the complaint. They said, in summary: 
Changes were made to the bond in November 2016 to make them 'PIK Toggle. This 
meant that depending on the oil price, the bonds would either pay a cash coupon or 
more bonds in lieu of cash (Payment in Kind). 
On 16 November 2018, all market makers made the decision to trade EnQuest plc 
without accrued interest.
Mrs K sold her bond on 2 August 2019. HL didnt choose to deny her accrued 
interest, but instead processed the trade based on market sentiment. 
As an execution only provider, changes to an investment were not communicated to 
clients because it was the clients responsibility to ensure their investments remained 
suitable for their needs.
Having reviewed the background of the trade, they were satisfied nothing untoward 
occurred as the decision to remove accrued interest was outside of their control. 
Mrs K then referred the complaint to this service. She explained that she wasnt notified of 
the change. Market makers refused to speak to the public (under regulations) so the only 
way she was able to find out about these changes is if she was told by her broker. In 
addition, advice from the LSE said that her broker would have information on any changes.
Her complaint was that HL, as her sole source of information for any changes, should have 
notified her immediately if there was a change in the market or failing that, when instructed 
to sell the instrument. An earlier warning would have had an effect on her long-term 
investment strategy. A late warning, at the time of the sale, would have at least let her delay 
the sale by less than 10 days until after the interest was paid which In her view would have 
been financially beneficial.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt think it should be 
upheld. Mrs K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
On 27 September 2021, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding if I think HL have done anything wrong, Ive thought about the high-level 
principles that apply to all firms regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. One of the 
principles says that firms must pay due regard to the interests of their customers and treat 
them fairly. Another says that firms must pay due regard to the information needs of their 
clients.
Ive taken into account the points raised by HL. Theres no doubt that Mrs Ks account was 
execution only and she wasnt provided with any advice by HL when she purchased the 
bond. Ive noted what theyve said about not having a formal role in providing her with 
updates on market developments. Theyve said that they wouldnt inform a client of this 
particular change as it wasnt a change to the underlying holding.
However, I disagree, whether or not the underlying holding changed, a fundamental aspect 
of the way it would be priced had changed from when she bought it. This was information 
Mrs K had no way of knowing and I think it was in her interests to know it in order to make an 
informed decision about her future intention with the bond. So, its my opinion that HL had a 
responsibility to inform Mrs K about the change.
That being said, Ive considered if Mrs K had any other way of getting this information. Ive 
checked to see if there was any information provided by Enquest about this change and 
there doesnt appear to be. The change appears to have been made by the market makers 
who notified HL, but crucially it doesnt seem that Mrs K had any way of getting this 
information unless she was told about the change by HL. In light of this I think it was even 
more important that HL made Mrs K aware.
HL have said that Mrs K should have been aware that accrued interest hadnt been added to 
the final pay-out because of the figures provided on the screens when she sold her bond. 
Ive reviewed the screenshots theyve sent, and I dont think it is very clear that accrued 
interest hasnt been added. The screenshots Ive seen say the price displayed is the clean 
price excluding accrued interest and further detail is given if you click on accrued 
interest, it says that when selling a bond accrued interest will be added to the total value 
you receive. There is no warning that this specific bond wouldnt have accrued interest 
added to it. Its my opinion that a reasonable person would have no reason to think they 
were selling their bond on any different terms to those under which theyd bought it. 
Finally, Ive also considered if Mrs K would have still sold the bond if she had been aware 
that if was being traded flat. Shes said she would have waited because it would only have 
been a delay of 10 or so days until the interest was paid, which would have been worth 
doing. I find this persuasive  while shed have had the risk the bond price could fall, I think 
on balance of probabilities the chance of receiving the interest payment would have led her 
to delay her order.
So, taking everything into account, I think that Mrs K has been disadvantaged by not being 
told by HL about the changes to the bond. Im satisfied she would have waited to sell the 
bond if shed been made aware of the decision to trade it flat. I therefore think she has lost 
out as a result of HLs actions. Ive therefore decided to uphold her complaint and ask HL to 
compensate her for her loss. 
I then set out what I intended to ask HL to do to put things right. And I asked Mrs K and HL 
to provide any further submissions or evidence by 27 October 2021. Mrs K responded and 
said she had nothing further to add and HL didnt respond. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As neither Mrs K nor HL made any further representations or offered any further evidence, 
my findings about this complaint havent changed. It follows that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
Putting things right
 HL should put Mrs K back in the position shed have been in had she waited until after the 
announcement of the interest payment on 15 August 2019 to sell the bond. They should pay 
her redress of D using the formula below: 
(A+B)  C = D 
Where A is what she could have achieved if shed sold the bond on 15 August 2019, B is the 
cash coupon she would have received and C is the value she received when she actually 
sold the bond.
And they should add interest of 8% simple to D from 15 August 2019 to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint and direct Hargreaves 
Lansdown Asset Management Limited to put things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman