DRN-4272949
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax made errors with how a Lasting 
Power of Attorney (LPOA) was registered and they did not follow specific instructions.
Mr H is represented by his attorneys in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any submission and comments they have made as being made by Mr H himself.
What happened
Mr H says that when the LPOA was registered with Halifax on 16 August 2022, despite 
specific instructions as to how the account should be operated, these instructions were not 
followed, such as no correspondence should be sent to Mr Hs address they had on the 
system, as he did not reside there anymore, so any post should be sent to the care of 
address for one of the attorneys, and both telephone numbers were given by the attorneys 
for Halifax to record these on their system. The attorneys later found out that 
correspondence for Mr H had been sent to his former address (including debit cards), and 
one of the cards had an attorney incorrectly named along with a cheque book. 
When one of the attorneys tried to access Mr Hs account, he was unable to, so he 
contacted Halifax and after a series of calls lasting over two hours, he found out Halifax had 
incorrectly stored his telephone number. Again, the same attorney later tried to access Mr 
Hs account, but he was still unsuccessful due to the mobile number the system wanted to 
send a text to. Mr H made a complaint to Halifax. 
Halifax upheld Mr Hs complaint and they offered £160 compensation. They said they 
accepted the version of events that Mr H gave them. They said the attorneys were told Mr 
Hs address was updated, so it was completely understandable that they were very upset 
when letters were sent to the old address. They were told the issues wouldnt take long to 
fix, but there were still errors after this. One of the attorneys had errors on the card, cheque 
book and other correspondence Halifax sent to her. Mr H brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator said £160 was a fair offer for what happened. Mr H asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In summary, one of his 
attorneys said that Halifax did not respond to the two reminder follow up letters he sent 
them, the results could have been catastrophic if the documentation would have fallen into 
different hands, and further mistakes occurred after they were offered first £100 
compensation, and then £160, so he says that the offer of compensation is not adequate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
I must make Mr H aware that our rules only allow us to make awards for distress and 
inconvenience for eligible complainants. Mr H is an eligible complainant. But his attorneys, 
acting in their role as his attorneys arent eligible complainants as part of this complaint. A 
Power of Attorney is authorised in law to represent consumers, and unless they are eligible 
complainants in their own right, we wouldnt award compensation for impact caused to them 
personally. Impact caused to attorneys could have a knock on effect to a consumer  but 
having attorneys can also shield them from detriment. 
Halifax have not disputed the chain of events that Mr Hs attorneys have given. Its clear that 
there were multiple errors which were made, which shouldnt have been made. Ive also 
considered what has happened with the reminder letters one of Mr Hs attorneys sent 
Halifax. Ive looked at the system notes, and I cant see that Halifax received these reminder 
letters. But Im also mindful that these letters were sent after Halifax had issued their final 
response. So even if they had received the follow up reminder letters, they are not obliged to 
act on these when they had already given their final response and Mr H was free to bring his 
complaint to our service. 
I have considered that Mr H could have suffered some financial loss due to the incorrect 
telephone numbers being recorded for his attorneys which meant one of them could not 
access Mr Hs account in order to open new savings accounts to make the most of Mr Hs 
money. This would affect the eligible complainant directly. Its not clear of the exact date 
when the attorneys wanted to move Mr Hs money directly to new savings accounts, and I 
note there were two accounts where transfers were made over three weeks apart, so I cant 
say that both transfers would have been made at the same time if access had been granted 
when it should have been originally.
But I am mindful that when the LPOA was registered, this was mid-August 2022. From Mr 
Hs attorneys follow up letter it appears he tried to access the account on 24 August and 30 
September 2022. But the funds were moved for a two year fixed rate Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) on 29 November 2022, and for a one year fixed saver on 21 December 2022. 
So there was a delay from when he accessed Mr Hs account to when the money was 
moved. 
It appears that because of the delay, that Mr H was financially better off though as a result of 
this delay, and Ill explain why. It looks like the two year ISA was opened elsewhere, so I 
cant say what interest rate he would have gotten in August-September 2022 if he had 
moved the funds around this time. But I do note that the Bank of England base rate 
increased from 1.75% (what it was when the LPOA was registered), to 2.25% on 22 
September 2022, to 3% on 3 November 2022. While I acknowledge that savings rates dont 
always move in line with the Bank of England Base rate, it appears that Mr H would have 
gotten a much better interest rate in November 2022 when the funds were moved on 29 
November 2022, then if the interest rate would have been fixed for two years in August or 
September 2022, especially if he was comparing interest rates with third parties.
For the Halifax account that Mr H opened on 21 December 2022, Ive looked at Halifaxs 
website for the historic interest rates on that type of account. The historic rate shows that if 
the account was opened between 21 September-10 October 2022, then the interest rate 
payable would have been 1.5%. But if the account was opened between 6 December 2022-
17 January 2023, and Mr H had a Halifax personal current account open from at least 1 
November 2022 (I checked the opening date and Mr H opened his Halifax current account in 
2016), then he would receive 4.15% interest. 
I have considered the funds in Mr Hs current account may not have earned much or any 
interest while it was waiting to be moved to a new account, but due to the delays, this would 
have been offset by Mr H being able to fix his interest rate at more than two times the interest rate he would have gotten if Mr Hs attorney had access to his account when he tried 
to both times. So I cant fairly say that Mr H suffered a financial loss due to Halifaxs errors. 
The evidence would show he benefitted financially because of the delays, although Halifax 
would be expected to get things right first time. 
Ive considered what Mr Hs attorney has said about the results could have been 
catastrophic if the documentation could have fallen into different hands. But here, I can only 
consider what did happen, not what might have happened. 
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. It could be argued that 
Mr H was shielded by his attorneys for most, if not all that happened, as he wasnt 
inconvenienced by waiting on the phone for hours, it wasnt his telephone number incorrectly 
recorded, and it wasnt his letters not being responded to. But I do have a great deal of 
sympathy for the impact of what happened to his attorneys and the distress and 
inconvenience they had acting in their role as an attorney. 
But Im persuaded that the offer Halifax made Mr H was fair. While I take onboard that errors 
may have occurred after the compensation was offered, our service would look at everything 
as a whole and assess what compensation we would award based on our rules and awards. 
Based on our rules and awards, I cant say that further compensation is due for Mr H, and 
Im unable to consider awards for distress and inconvenience for Mr Hs attorneys acting in 
their roles as a Power of Attorney, which they were here. So Halifax should pay Mr H what 
they offered him (less anything they have already paid), but it follows I wont be asking them 
to do anything further.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already made an offer to pay £160 for distress 
and inconvenience to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Mr H £160 
compensation (less anything they have already paid him). But I wont be requiring them to do 
anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman