DRN-2143531
The complaint
Miss C complains Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly settled a claim against her motor 
insurance policy.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
A main area of dispute between Miss C and the third party was whether their 
respective traffic lights were green at the time of the accident. There is no information 
available that supports which light was green, and neither party can prove that their 
own traffic light was green. Aviva took the decision that if went to court it would more 
likely be given to the party who had the right of way  in this case the third party. So 
they took the decision to accept liability.
In the policy it says Aviva can: 
take over and conduct in the name of the person claiming under the policy the 
defence or settlement of any claim or take proceedings for our own benefit to recover 
any payment we have made under this policy
Its not unusual for Insurers to have terms in the policy allowing them to settle the 
claim as they see fit, without agreement from the policyholder. So I dont think theyve 
acted unfairly in settling the claim without Miss Cs consent
But Ive also looked to see if Aviva have done so reasonably. I can see Aviva took 
steps to follow up on the information given by Miss C and challenge the third partys 
version of events. This included contacting two witnesses Miss C put forward. One 
witness said they didnt see the incident and I can see Aviva tried to contact the other 
unsuccessfully on three separate occasions  which included sending text messages 
and leaving them voicemails. I can see they also contacted the local council to obtain 
CCTV  and chased it several times when they didnt receive a reply. The council 
responded later to confirm they had no footage.  So I think Aviva have acted 
reasonably here
Aviva initially recorded the claim as notification only in 2018. But it was reopened in 
July 2019 after contact from the third partys insurance company. Miss C didnt 
become aware of this until October 2019, when she received a request for 
information from Aviva. Aviva accepted they couldve done more to make Miss C 
aware the claim had been reopened in July 2019 and offered her £150 in 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
I do think Aviva couldve done more to make Miss C aware the claim had been 
reopened, I can also see Aviva acknowledged they had given her incorrect 
information about the cost her excess. So I can appreciate her frustration. But taking 
everything into account I think the compensation Aviva have offered fairly reflects the 
inconvenience she has been caused  so I make no further award.
Miss C said she had to report a fault claim to her new insurers and her premiums 
increased, as she didnt declare it when she initially took out the policy. But Its not 
unusual for insurers to increase premiums in the event of a fault claim, and Ive not 
seen anything to persuade me this has happened as a result of anything Aviva did 
wrong.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman