DRN-2353852
The complaint
Mr W complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim under his home 
contents insurance.
What happened
Mr W advertised a laptop for sale on a classified ads website. An individual, identifying 
himself as Mr K, contacted Mr W and agreed to buy the laptop for £1,300. He arranged to go 
to Mr Ws house to collect the laptop and pay for it by BACS transfer.
On the day of exchange, Mr W was called to work so his wife agreed to stay at home to 
meet Mr K. According to Mr W, Mr K arrived as arranged. However, he told Mrs W that his 
mobile phone banking app wasnt working so he wasnt able to make the BACS transfer. He 
said he would call his bank to make the payment. 
Instead, he called an accomplice. It appears that this was the signal for Mr Ks accomplice to 
make a payment into Mrs Ws bank account, which Mrs W was then able to see on her 
online banking. This persuaded Mr Ws wife that the transaction was complete, so she gave 
the laptop to Mr K.
It appears that either Mr K or his accomplice then cancelled the transaction and the money 
was never paid into Mrs Ws account. Mr W realised that he had been scammed, reported 
the theft to the police, and made a claim under his contents policy.
Ageas said the claim wasnt covered. It said the theft was a result of deception and this was 
excluded under his policy. Mr W was unhappy with this and complained to this service.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. She looked at the policy 
wording and decided that the theft was excluded from cover. Mr W didnt accept this, so the 
case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas hasnt disputed the facts set out by Mr W surrounding the theft of his laptop. But it 
points to Section 2, paragraph 8 of his policy booklet. Under the heading What is not 
covered, the policy lists Theft or attempted theft by deception, unless entry only is gained 
by deception. 
Ageas says this means the only time it will cover a theft by deception is when the deception 
used is purely to gain access to the property, and gives the following example: a person 
pretending to work for the gas board and requiring access to the property because of a 
reported leak, once they are in the property they then have the freedom to walk around the 
house pretending to check for leaks, but actually with the intention of stealing items from the 
property. It says that in this case the focus of the deception wasnt to gain entry to the 
house; it was to take the laptop without paying for it.
Mr W says entry was gained by deception  the person who came to his house gave a false 
name so wasnt who he said he was. It was this that enabled him to steal the laptop. Ive 
some sympathy with this argument. 
However, Im satisfied that the wording of the policy was intended to exclude the type of theft 
described by Mr W. Gaining entry to the home wasnt the only deception here. And there 
would be no reason for the exclusion or for the word only in the policy if this type of theft 
was covered.
I can see that Mr W and his wife were the victims of a clever scam and I know how upsetting 
this can be. However, my role is to decide whether this is covered by their insurance policy. 
Unfortunately for Mr W, Im satisfied that Ageas reasonably applied the exclusion. 
Mr W has also said Ageas didnt send him the policy booklet, so he wasnt aware of the 
exclusion. He highlighted the Insurance Policy Information Document (IPID) which quoted 
cover for Up to £1million to cover loss or damage to your buildings caused by certain events 
such as fire, storm, flood, theft, escape of water, malicious damage and vandalism. 
However, the sentence immediately before this line refers Mr W to the policy booklet for a 
full list of what is and isnt covered. Also, the welcome letter sent to Mr W by the insurance 
broker in March 2019 listed five documents enclosed in his pack, including the policy 
booklet. The letter asked Mr W to check that you have all of the following documents 
enclosed within this pack, and told Mr W to refer to the policy booklet for full information 
about what is insured and what is not insured under your policy. 
Given the need to refer to the policy booklet, I think Mr W might reasonably have asked 
either Ageas or his broker for another booklet if it wasnt included in his pack. 
In any case, this doesnt affect my decision. Im satisfied that Mr Ws insurance policy 
doesnt cover the theft of Mr Ws laptop, and that Ageas acted fairly when it declined his 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. I dont make any award against Ageas 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman