DRN-4241323
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd stopped taking direct debit (DD) 
payments towards his pension policy when he reached his chosen retirement date, his 65th 
birthday, without notifying him in advance they were going to do this. 
What happened
Mr O took out a personal pension with Aviva in 1996. In September 2021, on reaching his 
NRD, Aviva stopped collecting the DD payments towards the policy. Mr O only realised this 
had happened in August 2022, when Aviva sent him a letter detailing the value of his plan 
and his retirement options. Unhappy his payments had been stopped for the previous 12 
months, without his knowledge, Mr O complained to Aviva. 
Aviva responded to Mr Os complaint, explaining Mr Os original policy schedule stated that 
contributions will be paid up until August 2021  the month before his chosen retirement date 
(NRD), and no further payments couldve been collected without his express permission. But 
they also acknowledged their systems didnt provide an automatic reminder to a customer 
that their payments were about to cease  and said theyd raise that point internally. 
Mr O didnt think Aviva had properly responded to all of his concerns, prompting them to 
reconsider his complaint, and issue a further response in December 2022. In this, in addition 
to summarising the communications theyd had with Mr O, Aviva also commented on Mr Os 
DD, and their obligations under the DD guarantee. The letter also explained the DD 
guarantee states money cant be collected from a consumer without their authority, and in 
this case, that authority only existed until the pre-determined date (the NRD stated in his 
policy), so they couldnt continue taking payments after that date. 
Aviva still believed theyd done nothing wrong regarding the DD issue, but sent Mr O a 
cheque for £100 as compensation for not addressing his complaints fully in their first 
complaint response letter. Mr O remained unhappy with Avivas response, and the fact 
theyd cancelled his DD and taken no steps to proactively advise him they were doing this, or 
alert him to the options for continuing making payments into his plan should he have wished. 
So, he brought his complaint to our Service. 
However, one of our Investigators didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong here. She 
thought Aviva had been clear that Mr Os payments would cease when he reached his 65th 
birthday  referring to the wording contained in the original policy, and letters Aviva 
appeared to have sent to Mr O in the months before he reached his NRD. 
Mr O was unhappy with our Investigators conclusions and made further representations to 
her. He felt she hadnt relied on all of the key evidence, and shed placed too much reliance 
on a document Mr O had no recollection of receiving. He commented extensively on where 
he felt Avivas responsibilities lay and still thought Aviva should have taken more proactive 
steps to alert him that his DD payments would stop. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Os complaint has been passed to me to consider 
and issue a Decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin with, I must make clear to Mr O that we are an informal dispute resolution service, 
set up as a free alternative to the courts. Mr O has provided significant commentary and 
documentation to us, and I can assure him Ive read and fully considered everything hes 
said. And Im very sorry to hear of his recent health problems too. But in deciding this 
complaint Ive focussed on what I consider to be the heart of the matter, rather than 
commenting on every issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr O. Rather it 
reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
Policy inception, and subsequent premium increase documentation
I want to start by looking at the documents Aviva sent to Mr O when he took out the policy, 
and in the subsequent years when he increased his premiums. When Mr O started paying 
into the policy, Aviva sent him a policy schedule, which confirmed his NRD (21 September 
2021), and the contributions hed pay, stated as being:
£40.00 payable monthly from 1 April 1996 to 1 August 2021 inclusive
In March 1998, Aviva sent a statement to Mr O after hed opted to increase his premiums, 
confirming the increased amount would be payable from that date until 1 August 2021. And 
in May 2006, following another change in premium, Aviva wrote to Mr O to confirm (amongst 
other things) the remaining plan term was 15 years and 5 months (taking him to September 
2021), and that payments will continue up until this date. 
I think its sufficiently clear from all of these documents that Mr Os premiums would be paid 
until he reached his NRD. And I think its reasonable to conclude Mr O would, or at least 
should, have been aware that his policy premiums would end on that date. 
Avivas requirements to communicate with Mr O as he approached his NRD
But, as Mr O has stated, a person approaching pension age may not recall the precise 
mechanics of a pension plan he took out many years previously. This is a point the 
regulators have previously acknowledged, prompting The Association of British Insurers 
(ABI) to introduce the concept of the wake up and follow up letters that need to be sent to 
consumers ahead of their retirement. The requirements for what need to be included in 
these letters are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook, specifically 
the Conduct of Business (COB) section 6.5.53R. I dont repeat these obligations here, but 
they can be found on the FCAs website.
This is important here because these set out Avivas (and all providers) obligations in terms 
of what they needed to tell Mr O as he approached his NRD. A wake-up letter needed to be 
sent to Mr O at least four months before his selected retirement date. 
In summary, its purpose was to prompt Mr O that his NRD is approaching, and to get 
confirmation whether he intended to retire then and to encourage him to consider his 
options. And having looked at Avivas letter to Mr O dated 21 April 2021, Im satisfied that it 
did this. But these COB rules Ive referred to  which as Ive said are what Aviva needed to comply with - dont include an obligation to alert Mr O (or any customer) their DD payments 
will cease on any given date. 
In July 2021, Aviva sent a further follow up letter to Mr O (as per COB 6.5.56R), referring to 
the above letter. It contained a questionnaire asking about potential retirement choices. It 
included, at page 15, information should Mr O choose to leave his funds with Aviva for the 
time being and make his pension choices at a later date. Amongst other things, it said:
If you want to continue paying into your pension plan, youll need to check the 
information you were given when you started your plan to see if you can do this If 
your pension plan doesnt allow you to continue making payments, you may be able 
to start paying into a separate plan
As before, there was no regulatory obligation for Aviva to specifically alert Mr O in this letter 
that his DD payments would shortly cease. But, nevertheless, I think the letter is reasonably 
clear in alerting him of a choice he had whether to continue paying into the policy  
suggesting he needed to take some sort of action if thats what he wanted to happen. 
In assessing this complaint, I need to be satisfied that Aviva has done what it was required, 
by its regulator, to do. And given what Ive said above, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong 
by not specifically alerting Mr O in their letters that his DD payments would cease in the 
forthcoming months. There was no regulatory requirement for them to do that. 
Mr O also believes Aviva were in breach of the DD guarantee requirements, as they didnt 
give him ten working days notice that the payments would cease. Echoing the point made 
by our Investigator, this ten-day notice is only required when there is a change to the DD 
amount, date or frequency. Here, the DD had reached the end of the period it was set up to 
cover, and so there was no requirement (under the DD guarantee) for Aviva to notify Mr O 
that payments were to cease, as intended when the policy was set up. 
So, given what Ive said above, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in the way they 
communicated with Mr O regarding his DD ceasing. 
Did Mr O actually receive the April 2021 letter
Mr O advises he never received this letter at the time, only receiving it 18 months later as 
part of his complaint exchanges with Aviva. He appears to suggest, during these exchanges, 
Aviva admitted theyd never sent it to him at the time, which had they done would likely have 
alerted him to the imminent DD cessation, allowing him to consider his further options. 
Having looked at the exchanges Mr O had with Aviva after hed raised his complaint, I dont 
agree with Mr Os interpretation of what Aviva have said. Instead, Aviva have admitted to 
omitting a copy of that letter in their post-complaint/data request exchanges with Mr O only. 
Which brings me back to Mr Os point about never having received the letter in the first 
place. He takes issue with our Investigators apparent assertion that its up to him to prove 
that he didnt receive that letter. Mr O says its impossible to prove a negative, and I agree. 
But I dont think that changes the outcome here in any case.
Where theres a dispute concerning whether a business has sent a document to a consumer 
as they should have done, we have to look at what we think is most likely to have happened, 
based on the evidence we have available. And we can only hold a business responsible for 
whether it sent a letter correctly, and not whether it was received. 
Here, Ive seen that all the copy letters Aviva sent to Mr O were correctly addressed. So, Im 
satisfied its more likely than not that Aviva sent the April 2021 letter correctly. Thats not in any way to suggest Im questioning what Mr O told us about unfortunately not receiving the 
April 2021 letter, but thats not something I can fairly hold Aviva responsible for. And in any 
case, Mr O did receive the July 2021 letter which was essentially a reminder about the April 
2021 letter, which also highlighted to Mr O that he needed to check if he could continue 
making payments into his plan after his NRD.
So I think, on balance, its likely Aviva did send the letter, and so I cant hold them 
responsible for the fact Mr O didnt receive it. 
Other matters Mr O has raised in exchanges with our Investigator. 
Mr O has commented robustly on what he feels is, to generally paraphrase, an imbalance in 
the relationship between him and Aviva  he says they have resources and knowledge, 
whereas he is a layperson pensioner with limited knowledge of what can be a very complex 
area. He suggests this should place an obligation (again, I paraphrase) on Aviva to take 
greater effort in ensuring they communicate with him (and consumers generally) to ensure 
best outcomes on his behalf. 
I do appreciate his concerns, as pensions can be a very complex and jargon/regulation 
heavy subject area  a point the FCA has recognised over time. All firms operating in the 
pension industry have an obligation to communicate with consumers in a way thats as easy 
to understand as possible. And looking at the letters Aviva have sent to Mr O over time, I 
think these letters meet those FCA requirements. And all of the letters sent to Mr O by Aviva 
that Ive referred to invite him to contact them if hes unsure of their contents or importance. 
I appreciate Mr O may disagree, but the general content of Avivas letters to its customers 
isnt something Im able to change or influence. This extends to the fact theres no obligation 
on Aviva (or any firm) to notify Mr O that his DDs would cease when a defined policy term 
comes to an end. If Mr O thinks this is something that Aviva (or any firm) should be required 
to tell their customers, hed need to raise his concerns with Avivas regulators, the FCA. 
Finally, I want to acknowledge Mr Os continued unhappiness with Aviva regarding how 
theyve responded to his requests for copy documents to be provided to him, including after 
hes brought his complaint to this Service. However, in relation to this complaint, Im satisfied 
Ive seen (as has Mr O) and taken account of all of the relevant documents relating to the 
DD cessation issue in reaching my Decision.
Conclusion
Having looked at all the evidence, from both parties, Im satisfied Avivas letters to Mr O met 
the requirements of their regulator and were reasonably clear, and they had no regulatory 
obligation to specifically advise Mr O his DD would cease when his policy reached his NRD. 
I do appreciate Mr Os strength of feeling about this matter, and that my Decision will likely 
come a disappointment to him. However, for the above reasons, I dont think Aviva have 
done anything wrong here, and so I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman