DRN-3448662
The complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund the money he lost to what he now believes 
to be a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
In late 2016, Mr D started trading with a merchant, O, who he believed was providing 
investment services. Over the next year or so, he made regular payments to O using 
his TSB debit card, totalling over £100,000.
In 2020, Mr D reported to TSB that he thought O had scammed him. TSB says it 
didnt receive the details needed to look into the allegation properly. Around this time, 
Mr D has told us he recovered £626 from O directly.
Mr D referred the matter to our service. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
They werent persuaded O was a scam, and found that Mr D was too late for a 
chargeback claim.
As Mr D has disagreed with the investigators view, the case has been escalated to 
me. We havent received any further points/evidence to explain why he disagrees. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Its not in dispute that Mr D made these payments. In line with the regulations and 
general banking terms and conditions, TSB has a duty to execute authorised 
payments without undue delay. So the starting position is that Mr D is liable for the 
payments.
TSB also has a duty to protect customers against the risk of financial loss from fraud. 
But when simply executing authorised payments, they dont have to protect against 
the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice. So Ive first considered if O was 
a fraudster.
In line with the Fraud Act 2006, the bar for fraud is whether the merchant dishonestly 
made a false representation and/or failed to disclose information with the intention of 
making a gain for themselves, or causing loss to another  or exposing them to the 
risk of loss. Theres a high legal threshold for this. Consumers may feel the sales and 
promotional methods used by a merchant were unfair or unethical, but that wont 
always amount to fraud. 
Mr D was dealing in very high-risk investments, so the level of loss alone doesnt 
necessarily mean O was fraudulent. There were some foreign regulatory warnings 
about it operating in jurisdictions it shouldnt have. But again, that in itself doesnt 
mean it was fraudulent. It was regulated for activities in another jurisdiction, and was 
passported into the UK, which suggests it may have been offering genuine trading 
services.
Im also conscious Mr D was able to recover some money  seemingly the balance 
showing as available in his account with O. Whilst some fraudsters may allow low 
level withdrawals to induce consumers to pay more, Mr Ds refund was several years 
after his last payment, after he told O he wouldnt invest any more. Its unclear why, if 
O was a fraudster, it would have paid Mr D this money. Overall, theres not enough 
persuasive evidence to fairly or safely conclude that O was a scam. Meaning that 
TSB isnt liable for failing to prevent Mr Ds loss.
Whilst Mr D thinks TSB should have attempted a chargeback claim to recover his 
funds, I agree with the investigator that he was too late for this to succeed. 
Chargebacks are a voluntary scheme, so banks arent obliged to raise them. And the 
rules are set by the card scheme provider, not TSB. Here, they give a maximum of 
540 days from the transaction to raise a claim. As the earliest record I have of Mr D 
disputing the payments to O is 2020, and as the last payment was made in 2017, it 
was too late for TSB to put forward a chargeback claim. So it didnt miss an 
opportunity to recover his loss. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr D, who understandably feels strongly about this 
complaint and the money hes lost. But my role is to consider whether TSB is at fault for 
what happened. For the reasons given above, Im not persuaded its responsible for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman