DRN-3939322
The complaint
Ms W complains about a motor finance agreement she had with Mercedes-Benz Financial
Services UK Limited (MBFS). Ms W exercised her right to hand the vehicle back early but is
unhappy that MBFS has applied additional charges at the end of the contract relating to
damage to the vehicle. Ms W disputes some of the damage and believes the charges
imposed are excessive.
To resolve the complaint Ms W would like MBFS to reduce or waive the damage charge.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings were set out in my provisional 
decision of 24 January 2023. A summary of which is as follows:
In 2017 Ms W took out a hire purchase agreement with MBFS for a vehicle. The vehicle was
new at that time and in return for paying the monthly rentals Ms W was able to use the
vehicle. As is common, the hire purchase agreement included a number of terms, two of
which related to the maximum mileage Ms W could travel and a requirement on Ms W to be
responsible for any repairs.
The hire purchase terms also included MBFSs vehicle return standards and these set out
expectations and requirements relating to the condition of the vehicle. Ill refer to these in
more detail later, but they essentially set out what would be considered fair wear and tear on
a vehicle when it is returned, and what level or degree of damage would go beyond fair wear
and tear. The terms set out that where there has been a failure to take reasonable care of
the vehicle Ms W will have to pay either the cost of repairing the vehicle or the cost of the
consequent reduction in the sale of the vehicle.
In accordance with legislation, the hire purchase agreement also includes a voluntary
termination clause, which allows Ms W to return the vehicle before the contract comes to an
end. Ms W exercised her right to voluntary termination and the vehicle was collected by
MBFSs agent. A vehicle inspection report was completed on 5 November 2020 at Ms Ws
property and several areas of damage were recorded. The mileage of the vehicle was
recorded as 54,808 and the vehicle was then taken back.
MBFS sent an invoice dated 2 December 2020 to Ms W setting out £1,404.26 was now due.
This was broken down as:
£1,155 of damage charges
£207.72 of excess mileage charges
£41.54 of VAT.
Ms W complained to MBFS about the damage charges as she felt these had not been
applied fairly. MBFS responded to the complaint and set out why it believed that most of the
charges had been applied fairly. MBFS did accept that a £35 charge for damage to a door
should not apply and reduced the invoiced amount by £35. MBFS did not however consider
that the remaining damage charges were applied unfairly so would not reduce the invoice
further.
Ms W remained unhappy with MBFSs response and referred her complaint to our service.
The complaint was considered by two investigators and the second investigator ultimately
found that the damage charges had been fairly applied. The investigator did however note
that MBFS had agreed to remove the charges relating to excess mileage.
Ms W did not accept the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been referred to
me for consideration.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the evidence presented so far, I am planning on upholding Ms Ws complaint in
part.
Ms Ws hire purchase agreement with MBFS was regulated consumer credit agreement and
because of that our service is able to consider complaints about the agreement. Ms W is
unhappy about the damage charges applied when the vehicle was returned. I have therefore
looked at whether or not MBFS has acted fairly in applying a charge for damage and then if
the amount charged is reasonable, considering the level or extent of damage.
The vehicle return standards are set out in the hire purchase agreement terms and
conditions. Before referring to the specific conditions, I think it is worth reminding the parties
of the intention of these terms and why they are common in these types of motor finance
agreements. In most motor finance agreements, consumers are responsible for damage that
has occurred to the vehicle while its been in their position. If a vehicle is returned to the
finance provider at the end of the hire period, or sooner, the condition of the vehicle will very
likely impact on the value of that vehicle. A vehicle with substantial damage will
understandably generate a lower value when compared to a similar vehicle without damage.
Consumers should not be avoiding repair costs by simply returning a vehicle that has
suffered damage and if a finance provider then loses out because of that it would not be
unreasonable for it to seek recovery of its loss.
But when the finance provider sells the vehicle after it is returned it will often be around 3
years old and will have travelled a number of miles during this time. So the vehicle would
have reduced in value and it would not be unreasonable to expect the vehicle to be showing
signs of wear and tear. While possible, it is unlikely in most cases that a vehicle that has
been driven for three years will be in a showroom new condition. Having regard for the age 
and mileage travelled of the vehicle when it is returned is also relevant in my view, with a
younger lower mileage vehicle being expected to show less wear and tear when compared
to an older and higher mileage vehicle. When buying a used vehicle it is again expected that
the vehicle will show signs of wear and tear and the bodywork of the vehicle is unlikely to be
perfect. In this case, the vehicle was approximately three and half years old and had
travelled 54,808 miles when returned, so it would be expected to show some signs of wear
and tear.
The often difficult task is agreeing what would actually be considered fair wear and tear and
what is more substantial damage that should have been repaired before the vehicle is
returned. To assist with making that decision MBFS includes the vehicle return standards
within the terms of the hire purchase agreement and this lists various examples of
acceptable or unacceptable levels of damage.
When considering whether MBFS has treated Ms W fairly by applying damage charges Ihave first looked at the damage and the vehicle return standards to determine if the specific
damage in this case exceeds the permitted levels of damage. If unacceptable damage, Ill
then consider whether the amount charged for the repairs is reasonable.
Wheel left hand rear
The inspectors guide which is shown in the picture of the wheel appears to highlight three
small marks on the wheel spoke. Each of these appear to be less than 25mm in length.
Minor scuffing under 25mm to the wheel is acceptable and does not appear to therefore
exceed the acceptable level of damage. I appreciate that the three, less than 25mm, marks
would in total exceed 25mm but there is nothing in the vehicle return standards that indicates
this is a consideration or requirement. I am not currently persuaded the specific damage is
excessive, or therefore chargeable damage.
Bumper rear
The image here appears to show the scratch to the bumper is considerably over the 50mm
length of acceptable damage as set out in the vehicle return standards.
Wing left hand front
The damage here appears to have been caused by brushing by a bush or hedge. Light
surface scratches not through the top coat, which can be removed by polishing or touch up
are deemed acceptable, according to the vehicle return standards.
The scratches are in my view light and do not appear to be through the top coat. It is not
however clear from the image whether the scratches can be removed by polishing / touch
up. Its not actually clear what touch up specifically refers to but I consider it is likely to
involve some minor attention, which is perhaps not too dissimilar to polishing. Considering
the image and the very light nature of the scratches, I am not persuaded at present that the
damage cannot be removed by touching up the area. Because of this, I am not currently
persuaded the damage is actually excessive when considering the vehicle return standards
requirements.
If MBFS wishes to provide further details as to why this area cannot be touched up, as set
out in the vehicle return standards, I will reconsider this further.
Door left hand front
The image of the left hand door does appear to show a small dent and this does look to be
greater than the 13mm in diameter that is permitted in the vehicle return standards. This
does therefore appear to exceed the size of permitted dents.
C post left hand
The images here do appear to show a small dent. But the images do not however
demonstrate the dent exceeds the 13mm permitted size under the Body and paint section of
the vehicle return standards. There is a separate section for Door aperture tread area and it
is not clear if MBFS believe this should be where the damage is measured against.
Acceptable damage under this section is noted to be A minor amount of scuffing to the door
and luggage area tread and sills. Unacceptable damage is damaged paintwork down to bare
metal Considering the very small dent, which has not damaged the paintwork, I do not
believe this exceeds either section of the vehicle return standards.
It is also possible looking at the imagine that the inspector is looking to draw attention to twoor three small scratches. But the report refers to the damage being dented rather than
scratched so it appears that the damage does relate to a dent.
C post right hand and B post right hand
Images for these areas do show small dents and these have both penetrated through the
paint and into the bare metal. These areas are again likely to fall into the Door aperture tread
area section of the vehicle return standards and as the bare metal is exposed do exceed the
permitted level of damage.
Door right hand front
I appreciate MBFS has removed the charge for this damage but having reviewed the
images, which do not in my view actually show the damage, I am somewhat surprised it was
invoiced initially anyway.
Having considered the images and video provided from the inspection I am not currently
persuaded that all of the damage that MBFS has invoiced for actually exceeds the level of
damage permitted within the vehicle return standards.
I should add that I am grateful for the efforts Ms W, and her husband, went through in
providing their own video footage of the vehicle to show the condition it was in when it was
being returned. This is helpful when considering certain types of damage but where the
damage is very small in size, as is the case here, it is very difficult to accurately show any
damage through video recordings and without close up images. Having considered the
images from the inspection report I am satisfied there is damage (apart from the right hand
front door as referred to above) to the car and this was there when inspected prior to
returning the vehicle.
Having determined that it would not be unreasonable for MBFS to charge for some of the
damage to the vehicle I have next considered the amount of charges MBFS is looking to
apply and whether this is reasonable. The charge applied by MBFS is intended to cover any
costs in repairing the vehicle or any loss in value through selling the vehicle with excessive
damage. MBFSs approach appears to be to charge for each separate scratch or dent but
repairing 2 scratches to a vehicle is unlikely to cost twice as much as repairing one scratch
to a vehicle, especially where these are minor scratches not requiring a full panel respray.
Im not therefore persuaded considering the circumstances here that even if all of the
damage would be considered chargeable that the amount MBFS has charged would be
reasonable.
Ive calculated that £575 is the charge that would apply to the areas of damage that I have
set out above to be chargeable. This includes £210 for the scratched bumper, £35 for the
dented front left door, £260 for the scratch to the left C post and £70 for the scratched right B
post.
Looking at the charges for the different individual areas of damage it is difficult to understand
how these charges have actually been calculated. I appreciate MBFS may argue these are
the costs of each repair, but some damage appears to be very similar but attracts a
significantly different charge. For example, the damage to the left C post and right B post
look very similar in the size of the dent/scratch and that the bare metal is exposed. One has
attracted a £260 charge and one has attracted a £70 charge and it is not clear why this
would be the case.
It is possible that the charges reflect that it would not cost twice as much to repair two
identical scratches, as I have referred to above, because the time and materials used areunlikely to simply double. But looking at what MBFS was initially looking to charge, it does
not appear that multiple or additional repairs are charged at a lower rate after the first repair
cost has been applied.
It is not clear if MBFS did actually get the vehicle repaired prior to selling, but if it did I
consider it unlikely that the cost would have been £575 considering the extent of damage
that I consider to be chargeable. If MBFS submits an invoice setting out what repair costs it
did incur, relating specifically to the damage that goes beyond fair wear and tear and what I
have set out as chargeable above, I will be happy to consider this cost further.
It is not uncommon for vehicles to simply be sold straight at auction without being repaired
and it is likely that even allowing for the age and mileage of this vehicle, it would have
achieved a lower price because of the damage. The price paid for a vehicle on any given
day at auction is impacted by a number of factors, not simply the condition of the vehicle, so
it would be difficult to know the exact impact of the damage on the price achieved for this
vehicle. It is again accepted by the industry that vehicles will show differing levels of damage
and this is why secondary valuation sites will often list different prices reflecting the average,
or above/below average condition.
Having carefully thought about what damage I consider would be reasonable to charge for,
the likely repair costs of that damage and the economies of scale around multiple repairs, or
the actual reduction in value, I consider a reasonable sum for Ms W to pay in this instance
would be £500.
I also believe that Ms W has been put to some trouble and upset in having to question the
damage charges, which I have found should not have been as high as initially invoiced. I
would again remind MBFS that it initially accepted that it should not have charged for the
damage to the right hand front door but it only removed this charge after Ms W complained.
Considering the level of inconvenience Ms W has been put to I think MBFS should pay an
additional £100 to reflect this. If Ms W has not yet paid the damage charge, the £100 can be
used to reduce the remaining £500 charge I consider to be reasonable. Should Ms W prefer
to pay the £500 and then be paid the £100 I would ask that she clarifies this when
responding to my provisional decision.
If Ms W has already settled the damage charge MBFS should pay the £100 directly to Ms W
and refund the £655 (£1,155 - £500), plus interest at 8% simple per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
If MBFS has recorded any late, missed or adverse information on Ms Ws credit file related 
to unpaid damage charges this should be removed, providing Ms W settles the £500 (or
£400 if the £100 is offset) now required within thirty days of accepting my final decision.
Finally, MBFS has agreed to waive the excess mileage charge that was initially applied and
as it has agreed to do this I would expect it to ensure this is also waived. I do not therefore
consider it necessary to refer to that in any detail here.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Ms Ws complaint and subject to any further
submissions from the parties here, direct MBFS to settle the complaint as set out above.
MBFS responded to my provisional decision and said it was willing to remove the £260 
charge for the C post LH. It referred to the vehicle return standards in respect of the wheel 
and believes this is still chargeable damage. In relation to the damage to the wing left hand front, it noted the damage was over 25mm and also referred to 21 paint chips. MBFS said it 
was willing to accept £895 as a final charge for the damage.
 
Having considered MBFSs response I asked the investigator to put further questions to 
MBFS. In summary, MBFS was asked for evidence of Ms W being sent a copy of the pricing 
summary, which sets out the cost of different types of repairs. It was noted that the inspector 
made no mention of the 21 paint chips and MBFS was asked more about the ability to polish 
or touch up the scratches. It was highlighted what was set out in the vehicle return standards 
that were attached to Ms Ws agreement and these were different to the more recent version 
MBFS had referred to. MBFS was asked to demonstrate where Ms W had agreed to the 
change in the vehicle return standards. 
MBFS responded to say that it was willing to remove the charge for the alloy wheel now. It 
still disagreed about the wing left hand front and believes the damage is excessive. MBFS 
refers to the numerous scratches and a dent in the swage line and it believes the damage 
cannot be removed by polishing or a touch up pen. MBFS also noted that the inspector 
would have been unable to refer to multiple points of damage on the same panel or area. 
MBFS did not provide any evidence of Ms W accepting the revised vehicle return standards, 
or anything to show Ms W was provided with a copy of the pricing summary  setting out 
how the different damage repair costs are calculated. 
Ms W responded to my provisional decision and said that in order to bring the matter to a 
conclusion, she would be happy to accept the £400 charge. 
The complaint has now been passed back to me so that a final decision can be issued. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to similar conclusions, for broadly the same reasons around 
most of the areas of damage. There is one exception to this, and this relates to the damage 
to the left hand front wing. 
In my provisional decision I did not dispute that there was damage to this area, nor did I 
dispute that the damage appeared to be multiple scratches. My reservations around a 
charge being applied to this area of damage were more in relation to MBFSs vehicle return 
standards wording and this noted that damage that could be polished out or touched up 
would not be chargeable. I explained that it was not clear that this damage could not be 
polished out or touched up and because of this I was not convinced it was chargeable. 
MBFS has now said that touching up is done by a pen. This is not uncommon when 
repairing small paint damage to a car. This seems a reasonable explanation and what I 
believe was intended in the vehicle return standards where it refers to touching up. The 
damage is clear to the paint work and although it does not appear to have gone through to 
the metal, it is still very noticeable and affects a reasonably large area that requires some 
repair. 
Having now considered what MBFS has said about the process of touching up this area I 
accept that this is unlikely to provide a satisfactory repair to the paint work. The number and 
length of the scratches is simply too large to be able to be touched up in this way. 
It is for this reason that I am now persuaded it would be reasonable for MBFS to charge for this damage. It is possible, considering the size of the damaged area that a full panel 
respray may be required and in view of this, the £210 repair charge does not seem 
unreasonable. 
MBFS now accepts that damage to the wheel and C post left hand is not chargeable. For 
completeness, my view of the other areas of damage and whether these are chargeable or 
not has not changed since my provisional decision. 
Ms W has not responded to my comments regarding any of the specific areas of damage but 
has said that she is willing to pay £400 to bring the matter to a conclusion. Having 
reconsidered the circumstances of this case, and in particular the damage to the left hand 
front wing, I now consider MBFS should be permitted to charge no more than £610 for the 
damage repair costs. This is broken down as the £500 costs, as set out in my provisional 
decision for the bumper, door LHF, C post RH and B post RH. Plus, the £210 cost relating to 
the wing and then subtracting the £100 for the trouble and upset caused to Ms W. 
I appreciate this is more than the £400 Ms W said she was happy to accept to bring the 
matter to a conclusion. But as I have explained above, the damage to the wing is substantial 
and having considered MBFSs explanation around the possible repair process, it would not 
be unreasonable to charge for this damage.  
Putting things right
In order to settle this complaint MBFS should reduce the charge it has asked Ms W to pay in 
relation to the damage so that this is no more than £610. If it has not already done so, MBFS 
should also ensure the excess mileage charge is removed, as it has previously agreed to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ws complaint in part and direct Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to reduce the damage charge to no more than £610. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman