DRN-3447957
The complaint
Mr D says NewDay Ltd restricted the online access to his credit card account. It didnt lift this 
when he called to find out why, yet still demanded payment despite him being unable to 
check his statements. 
What happened
NewDay applied a fraud block to Mr Ds account, this meant he also lost his online access to 
his account too. When he called to resolve this he failed the security questions, on two 
separate calls, and so the restriction remained. He complained to NewDay at this point. They 
advised he call the fraud department again, but that he must make his repayments. He didnt 
and his account went into arrears. NewDay issued, by post, late payment letters, then a 
default notice and finally it terminated his agreement asking for payment in full. 
Mr D wants NewDay to apologise and fix his account, to remove all adverse data from his 
credit file and to compensate him for the stress this has caused.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. He issued two assessments that said, in 
summary, whilst NewDay didnt always provide appropriate service on the calls and whilst 
Mr D didnt have access to his online statements, NewDay had sent details of the balance 
owing, and how to pay, by post. He noted this was to an address Mr D had moved on from, 
but equally that Mr D had said hed received these communications. He found NewDay was 
entitled to restrict Mr Ds online access whilst there was a block on his account, and not to lift 
it as he failed the security questions. He did not find any failings with how NewDay had 
managed Mr Ds account once it was in arrears. 
Mr D disagreed, clarifying he had not lost online access after he failed the security questions 
 he was calling as he had already lost access. He said NewDay may have written to him 
but none of the letters listed the transactions on his account  he was not prepared to pay 
blindly, he had no way to check the balance was correct and he was concerned there had 
been fraud on his account, after all a block had been applied by the fraud team. The letters 
did not tell him how to regain his online access. He said he was unable to answer the 
security questions as NewDay wanted exact transaction amounts. He kept asking how to 
resolve the situation account, but NewDay would not discuss the problem, just saying it 
couldnt as it couldnt be sure he was Mr D. 
Mr D asked for an ombudsmans review so the complaint was passed to me.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
First to confirm, I am clear Mr Ds online access was restricted before he called NewDay on 
28 May 2021. It happened on 26 May 2021 at the same time as, and because, a fraud block 
was placed on Mr Ds account. From what I have seen these account restrictions were 
applied fairly and in line with the lenders risk policies.  
Unfortunately when Mr D called two days later he failed the extra security questions that he 
needed to pass for the restrictions to be lifted. Mr D argues NewDay needed exact pounds 
and pence transaction details (whilst he had no account access), but I have listened to the 
calls and only one question related to recent transactions. And I can see why NewDay would 
have been concerned with his responses to the first two questions about card tenure and 
limit as Mr D seemed quite unsure. 
As Mr D was the genuine cardholder I can see why it was frustrating and alarming to be told 
the adviser did not believe he was and for the call to end without the resolution he needed. 
However, I dont think NewDay made an error. Similarly on the next call Mr D made to try get 
his access re-instated when the security questions were about time at, and details of, current 
and previous addresses Mr D seemed to struggle to provide precise responses. And so 
NewDay reached the same conclusion that it ought not continue the call. 
Mr D is unhappy that despite him asking repeatedly on that call how to resolve this situation 
the lender provided no help. Equally, he says none of the arrears letters gave him any 
information on how to restore his online account access. This is accurate, but I dont see that 
was the purpose of these letters. When NewDay issued its final response letter to Mr D on 5 
July 2021 it told Mr D he would need to contact its Fraud Department on 0371 522 5528 to 
get the restrictions lifted. I cannot see Mr D had another go at doing this. I do understand he 
was reluctant to given previous attempts had failed  and NewDay could maybe have given 
more information about why he had to do this and make clear that he would need to respond 
precisely and accurately to the security questions. But I cant find it did anything wrong by 
adhering to its process that is in place to protect customers.
I have then considered Mr Ds comments about why he stopped making payments to his 
account. I do understand that he would have been concerned about the status of his account 
given a fraud block had been applied and he could not check his transactions. But he had 
not cleared his balance in full prior to the restrictions being applied so he knew he had an 
outstanding balance. So I think he could have continued to make the minimum payment until 
his access was restored and he could check his account. The arrears letters reminded him 
how to make payments. He could also broadly see as he fell further into arrears that the 
balance was only changing by the addition of late fees and charges, not by spending on his 
account. I am not saying this was an ideal position, but NewDay fairly needed Mr D to call 
back and pass the security questions in order to help him.
It follows I dont think NewDay did anything wrong to the extent that it that it needs take 
corrective action. I know Mr D will be frustrated and disappointed by this conclusion, but I 
hope he can follow why I cant fairly find the overdue status of his account and the adverse 
data on his credit file and is the fault of NewDay.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman