DRN-2632805
The complaint
Company Y (Y/he) complains that Building And Land Guarantees Limited (BLG/it) took a 
duplicate payment for building insurance because it didnt have appropriate controls in place 
to prevent it.
 
What happened
Y asked the broker, BLG, to obtain an insurance quote on his behalf for building work he 
was planning. Satisfied with the quote, Y sent the acceptance slip and a cheque in full 
payment to BLGs office. 
Later that month, Y let BLG know that he was going to be starting the work. BLG told him 
that the quote had expired because it hadnt received payment and hed need to pay the 
renewed quote before he was insured. Y said hed sent the cheque and quote acceptance 
but BLG explained that its office was closed due to the lockdown so it wouldnt have seen 
the cheque. He offered to make payment over the phone, which BLG said it could take the 
following day.
BLG took card details from Y but the transaction wasnt successful. It asked him to provide 
the card details again and the payment went through.
A couple of days later, BLG realised it had taken the payment twice  it had already banked 
the cheque before taking the card payment. BLG contacted Y, apologised, and refunded the 
payment straight away. It also said it would cover any bank charges Y may have incurred as 
a result of its mistake and offered to let him cancel the policy with a full refund.
Y wasnt happy with its offer because it was too late to get insurance elsewhere for the 
building work which had already started; he thought BLG implied he didnt have enough 
funds to cover the payment, and he thought its controls shouldve prevented the duplicate 
payment.
Our investigator thought BLG had responded fairly to Ys complaint and he didnt think it 
needed to do any more.
Y didnt agree. He said his main complaint remained unresolved  he wanted confirmation 
that BLG had reviewed its way of working so that the same mistake wouldnt happen again. 
Y felt that the agent who dealt with his policy had been unprofessional and he made the 
second payment under duress. He also said hed lost working days dealing with this matter.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Y will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, I wont repeat the sequence of events here because theyre not in dispute. BLG 
acknowledged its mistake and tried to put it right, but Y doesnt think it did enough. So, Ill 
focus on the key issues of Ys complaint.
Duplicate payment controls
When BLG accepted Ys offer to make the card payment, it had already banked his cheque 
and it had cleared his bank account ten days earlier. Ys main concern here is that BLG 
didnt have controls in place to stop this happening. BLG doesnt deny that, although it 
pointed out that lockdown meant access to its office was limited and staff were working at 
home. I note that BLG hasnt laboured this point and simply accepted it couldve done better. 
It also confirmed that it reviewed the situation and implemented a new way of working to 
prevent the same mistake happening again. It seems to me that this is what Y wanted and I 
think its a fair response to the concerns he raised about this issue. I dont think BLG needs 
to do any more in respect of this point.
Available funds
Y says BLG implied he didnt have enough funds to cover the payment for his insurance. Ive 
looked at the email correspondence between Y and BLG, but I havent seen anything to 
support his concern. The agent who took down Ys card details for the payment emailed to 
say he mustve misheard the digits and asked Y to call him to provide the number again. At 
no point was there any suggestion that the payment was declined. 
Ive thought about BLGs offer to reimburse any bank charges Y incurred because of the 
duplicate payment. Charges are usually applied if payment is taken from an account which 
has insufficient funds available, so perhaps Y took this to mean BLG thought he couldnt 
pay. However, the overall tone of BLGs communication with Y is one of trying to correct its 
mistake, so Im satisfied that BLG was simply acknowledging that its mistake couldve 
caused loss or inconvenience which it wanted to put right. I dont agree that BLG implied Y 
didnt have funds available to make payment, so I dont think any action is warranted.
Offer to cancel
I understand Ys point about BLGs offer to cancel the policy and refund the payment being 
of no value. Hed arranged the cover so he could start building work and cancelling nine 
weeks into the work wasnt an option for him, so he thinks its offer was pointless. I accept his 
point, but I dont think that means BLG shouldnt have offered. I think it was trying to 
demonstrate to Y that it took seriously his concerns about its mistake. BLGs offer didnt 
cause Y any loss so theres nothing to put right here. 
Customer service
Y said the agent dealing with his policy was unprofessional and he made the second 
payment under duress. The email communication between Y and the agent is the only 
evidence available for this issue and nothing within that evidence suggests to me that the 
agent was unprofessional. I can see that, initially, Y offered to pay over the phone by card 
and, as Ive said, BLG took ownership of its mistake in taking down his card details 
incorrectly. One email does explain to Y the implications of not paying for the insurance 
cover. At that point, BLG thought Y hadnt paid yet so I think it was reasonable to tell him 
what might happen. I accept that he mightve considered that a little forceful, but I cant 
agree that the tone was anything more than informative. 
Overall, Im satisfied that BLGs manner was reasonable. While it confirmed to Y that it 
spoke with the relevant agent about professionalism, it was a reminder rather than confirmation that it thought the agent had done anything wrong. I wont be asking BLG to do 
any more about this issue.
Loss
Finally, Y says BLGs mistake cost him two and a half days of directors time, at a value of 
around £750. Y told BLG work would be starting soon and on the same day the agent said it 
hadnt received payment. BLG confirmed receipt of payment the following day. Looking at 
the emails between Y and BLG, I havent identified any urgency in the tone. Y told BLG it 
could call him for card payment that day, or the following day and provided other options. I 
think its likely that if the payment issue was going to cause Y any loss there would, at least, 
be some indication of the urgency or inconvenience within the email correspondence. 
So, from the point at which Y told BLG he was due to start work, to payment being 
confirmed, one day passed. If Y didnt have his insurance documents before he needed to 
begin the work, Id have expected him to contact BLG to follow up on the matter. And given 
that his first email to BLG was a week after the building start date shown on the insurance 
quote, I cant reasonably say that BLG caused any significant loss. So, while I dont doubt 
that Y felt he lost time as a result of BLGs mistake, I cant see anything in the evidence 
which shows that it caused the loss Y refers to. I see no reason to ask it to take any action in 
respect of this issue.
On balance, and taking into consideration the limitations on office access, I think BLG 
responded promptly and fairly when it identified its mistake and I dont think the evidence 
demonstrates that its actions caused Y any significant loss. I wont be asking BLG to do any 
more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman