Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with an Egg 
credit card in 2001. Mr D says the PPI was mis-sold to him.
Barclays Bank UK PLC has accepted responsibility for the sale. So, for clarity, I will refer to 
Barclays in my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Barclays had to make it clear to Mr D that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr D says it wasnt made clear to him that the policy was optional.
Barclays records show Mr D applied for the credit card online. And its sent us screenshots 
of what it says the online application form wouldve looked like around the time. These show 
a section on PPI with yes and no options to be selected to show whether the customer 
wanted to take it out. And Barclays records show Mr D selected the yes option.
Based on this, and what I understand about Barclays sales practices at the time, I think 
Barclays did make it clear to Mr D that he had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr D chose 
to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
I havent seen clear evidence that Barclays gave Mr D any personalised advice about the 
PPI, so I dont think it recommended it to him. This means Barclays didnt have to check if 
the PPI was right for Mr D. But it did have to make sure he got the information he needed to 
decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid 
out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And hes told us he 
didnt have any savings or other means he couldve used to make his repayments if he 
wasnt earning. So I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr D if something went wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put Mr D off taking it out.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
DRN-1037254But Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr D,
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has basically offered to pay back the amount of
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think
that offer is fair in this case.
Barclays has also offered to pay Mr D £50 compensation for initially telling him it didnt have 
to pay back any of the commission or profit share. And I also think this offer is fair.
What the business needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should also pay back to Mr D any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr D the difference 
between what Mr D owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr D 8%* simple 
interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
Barclays should also pay Mr D £50 compensation.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr D  any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. And pay Mr D £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman