DRN-2876208
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a car he was financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr W. The car here was about 
nine years old and had already completed about 96,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect quite a bit of wear and tear to be present.
The relevant legislation explains that if a fault happens after six months or more we are to 
assume it wasnt present when the car was supplied, unless the consumer can demonstrate 
otherwise.
The fault with the clutch on this car happened after Mr W had been in possession of it for 
more than six months. So, the onus is on Mr W to demonstrate the problem had been 
present or developing when the car was supplied to him.
Ive read the report from the third-party garage who looked at the car. I havent found it 
necessary to call that garage as I think the report covers the issue well and theres no 
suggestion the garage havent provided a comprehensive explanation of the fault.
The third-party garage explain that they replaced the clutch, slave cylinder and pipework but 
the problem persisted. Mr W has explained that there were cable ties keeping tension on the 
clutch and that these would clearly have been present when the car was supplied to him. Im 
not persuaded the cable ties caused the problem with the clutch as I think they would have 
been removed when the third-party garage replaced the clutch and, as its clear the fault 
persisted, the fault couldnt have related to the cable ties.
The third-party garage have explained that there was oil in the brake fluid and have 
suggested this might have been the cause of the problem. And Mr W says as the brake fluid 
was checked and topped up before the car was supplied to him it must have been the 
dealership who added the oil. Im not persuaded by that argument as I think if that had been 
the case Mr W would have experienced problems earlier. I note he was able to complete 
about 5,800 miles before the problem was identified.
Unfortunately, as the car has now been sold on it is not possible to complete any further 
investigations in to that fault.
I can see that Mr W had some other problems with the car. He had to have track rod ends 
replaced, a new battery and an oil filter fitted. There are also reports of a rattle at the rear of 
the car, an engine management light illuminating, problems with the reversing camera and 
parking sensors, a leak under the car and a tyre failing. 
I think some issues are inevitable on a car of this age and mileage and I think these issues 
are examples of what would be considered fair wear and tear. Some of them have not been 
diagnosed and others were repaired but, as the car has now been sold on, it isnt possible to 
investigate them any further.
Overall, whilst I understand Mr Ws frustration with the problems hes experienced, Im afraid 
I dont think sufficient evidence has been provided to demonstrate the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality and Im not asking Moneybarn to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman