DRN-3981523
The complaint
Miss A complains that Yorkshire Building Society restricted her account and asked her to 
attend branch with identification.
What happened
Around March 2022, Miss A opened internet savings accounts with Yorkshire. She had to 
provide a copy of her identification to open the accounts  which she sent by post. Miss A 
said there was an issue, and she had to send the identification again, but the accounts were 
eventually opened.
In April 2022, Miss A attempted to make a transfer out of the account to gain better interest 
on the money held within it  but wasnt able to. Yorkshire informed Miss A that she needed 
to attend branch with her identification for them to allow transactions to go through. Miss A 
wasnt happy about this and said it was difficult to get into branch as she was in full time 
education. Miss As account  and the money in it  remain blocked. Around 25 May 2022, 
Miss A attended branch with her identification. The Yorkshire branch staff asked Miss A 
some questions and after the review was complete, removed the block from the account. 
Miss A was then able to make transfers.
Yorkshire didnt think theyd done anything wrong  in summary, they said it was essential 
for Miss A to present her identification in branch. Miss A disagreed. She brought the 
complaint to our service and said she wanted a full explanation, and compensation for the 
stress this situation had caused her as well as monetary reimbursement for the cost of 
phone calls and travelling to branch. Miss A also wanted Yorkshire to recognise the loss of 
interest rate she could have been receiving had they let her transfer the money to a different 
savings account sooner than May 2022.
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt think Yorkshire had acted unfairly. She said 
Yorkshire were entitled to block the account and had legitimate reasons to ask for Miss As 
identification. Our investigator also didnt think Yorkshire had caused any delays as once 
Miss A attended branch with the identification, the account was unblocked.
Miss A remained unhappy. She specifically wanted to know why Yorkshire initially accepted 
the identification by post, and then asked her to attend branch with it. She said the stress 
caused her health issues such as panic attacks.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. Some of the information 
Yorkshire has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. This 
means I wont be able to share a lot of detail with Miss A, as shed like, but Id like to assure 
her that I have considered everything.
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation place extensive obligations on 
regulated financial businesses to have suitable systems in place to allow them to carry out 
sufficient Know Your Customer (KYC) checks. This applies to both new and existing 
relationships. It is essential that Yorkshire carry out checks on account applications  
including Miss As  to meet these legal requirements. 
I appreciate Yorkshire initially accepted Miss As identification and allowed the accounts to 
be opened and money deposited. Its common practice that banks carry out further checks 
once an account is opened and having reviewed whats happened in the circumstances 
here, I consider Yorkshire were entitled to ask Miss A to attend branch with her identification. 
I recognise this extra step would have been frustrating and inconvenient for Miss A  but that 
in itself doesnt mean Yorkshire did anything wrong. Ultimately, its up to Yorkshire to decide 
what information and documentation they need to satisfy their checks and in Miss As case 
they required her identification to be presented in person. Yorkshire has shared the reasons 
for this with our service, and while I cant share them directly with Miss A, I am satisfied their 
request was reasonable in the circumstances. It therefore follows that I wont be asking 
Yorkshire to pay compensation for the inconvenience caused here  including the phone call 
and travel costs.
I recognise Miss A feels like she lost out financially as she wasnt able to transfer the money 
held in her Yorkshire account to a higher-bearing interest account. However, Im satisfied 
Yorkshire made their request for Miss A to attend branch with her identification clear. When 
Miss A did that  in May 2022, Yorkshire unblocked the account immediately and allowed 
Miss A to make the transfers she wanted to. Therefore, I cant reasonably say Yorkshire 
caused any undue delays here  so its not reasonable to ask them to pay the difference in 
interest rates.
Overall, Yorkshire were entitled to carry out a review on Miss As account and ask for the 
required documentation as they were complying with their wider obligations. So, I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2023. 
Hayley West
Ombudsman