DRN-3848806
The complaint
Mr L complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has unfairly declined a buildings 
insurance claim, and a legal expenses insurance (LEI) claim.
Any reference to Ageas or Mr L includes that of respective agents and representatives.
What happened
The background is well known between the parties and has been detailed at length 
elsewhere, so Ill summarise events. Mr Ls complaint with this Service has also narrowed in 
scope while the complaint has been with us  so I will focus on the matters still in dispute.
Mr L is a leaseholder of his property, as well as a shareholder of the management company 
that is the policyholder for this Ageas insurance policy. Given the distinct nature of the two 
claims disputed here, Ill address the buildings insurance and LEI claims individually.
The buildings claim
Mr Ls flat suffered water damage. This was first identified by the tenant in mid-2021. 
In August 2021, this damage was reported to Ageas and it was told the property had 
been uninhabitable since June 2021. So, Ageas investigated and declined the 
buildings claim, saying the scenario in question was excluded by the policy terms as 
the policy didnt cover damage caused by or as a result of wear and tear or gradually 
developing conditions. And that the cause of the damage was due to historic 
defective workmanship.
Mr L argued the claim should be covered and asked for consequential losses 
(including loss of rent, earnings, and other costs). He said Ageas had breached data 
protection rules and complained about Ageas handling of the claim.
The complaint came to this Service and our Investigator didnt uphold this matter, 
explaining why he felt Ageas had fairly declined the claim and it didnt need to do 
anything further in respect of this claim.
LEI claim
Mr L sought to make an LEI claim against his neighbour. This neighbour is also a 
leaseholder and shareholder of the management company that is the policyholder. 
In March 2022 Ageas wrote to Mr L saying the claim was excluded in line with the 
policy terms. This was due to Mr L incurring costs without Ageas consent. And 
because a separate exclusion relating to disputes between partners or shareholders 
 here it said the two leaseholders of the property (Mr L and his neighbour) were both 
directors and potential beneficiaries of the policy.
Our Investigator looked into things, concluding:
oHe was unable to award costs for Mr Ls decision to take legal action against 
Ageas or to represent him in bringing a complaint.
oHe agreed both Mr L and his neighbour could have a potential interest in the 
policy, and it was possible only one party would have cover  but that this 
wasnt excluded.
oHe said Mr L had not agreed costs with Ageas in advance, and it wasnt 
enough for his solicitor to simply inform Ageas of its costs after theyd been 
incurred. But he said Ageas couldve taken action earlier than it did and 
shouldve provided him with a claim form.
oHe was satisfied Mr Ls claim did not arise from a matter related to him and 
his neighbour in the capacity of partners. And while Mr L and his neighbour 
were both shareholders of the policyholder (management company), it 
wouldnt be fair nor reasonable for Ageas to rely on this exclusion as the 
dispute doesnt arise from a matter relating to them as shareholders  which 
the Investigator was satisfied this exclusion was likely seeking to cover.
So, the Investigator upheld the complaint, directing Ageas to:
oReassess the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy as it had 
unfairly applied policy exclusions.
oAs a result of Ageas delays, it should consider providing retrospective cover 
from October 2021  speculatively allowing for Ageas to have considered the 
claim and cover costs from that point onwards.
The Investigator explained this Service was unable to make any awards to a third 
party, so could not make any award payments to Mr Ls representative directly and 
would only consider impact on Mr L and costs he was responsible for.
Following the assessment
Mr L said the direction for Ageas to reconsider the claim left the matter open for 
Ageas to decline it on another ground in the future. 
The Investigator stood by his direction, saying any future dispute may be a matter for 
a separate complaint.
Ageas disagreed on the Investigators findings on the LEI claim. 
oIt said Ageas does not handle or provide cover under the LEI part of the 
policy and this is handled by a separate firm that acts as an administrator 
(that Ill call Company A). 
oMr Ls legal representation agreed it had a copy of the policy schedule  
which included a link to the Business Legal Guard Policy Wording (the LEI 
cover) that he is seeking cover under. And that this document clearly outlined 
how a claim can be made under the policy. As Mr L was legally represented it 
says his own solicitors shouldve read the policy and advised him of the 
claims procedure.
oAgeas recognises its loss adjuster did not fully explain its LEI claims process 
until March 2022  and would be willing to make a nominal payment of £500 
+ VAT towards Mr Ls solicitors fees.
oAny claim decision falls to Company A and not Ageas as its administrator. 
And Ageas has no involvement with the dealing, consideration or 
administration of such a claim. So, any direction to consider Mr Ls incurred 
costs would fall to Company A. 
The Investigator looked again and said that while Company A may be the claims 
administrator, Ageas is ultimately the insurer within the policy wording, so it was responsible for paying claims. So, regardless of Ageas internal processes or 
potential need to involve third parties within its handling of a claim, he was satisfied 
Company A wouldve had an opportunity to assess the claim earlier than it did. 
Ageas stood by its position that Company A would be responsible for the decision 
making and it said to date, Mr Ls representation was still yet to progress a claim with 
Company A despite being aware of the process.
The Investigator put Ageas offer to Mr L, which he rejected, alongside a copy of the 
Company A claim form to start an LEI claim if they had not done so already.
Mr L reviewed Ageas comments and commented that its claim form included 
incorrect statements and was unlike any similar form his solicitors had been asked to 
complete previously  who said it was for a preliminary form of notification solely 
intended to be completed by the insured and not their instructing solicitor.
The Investigator reviewed the matter again, saying:
oHe was satisfied Mr L did not strictly follow the claims process. While Mr Ls 
agent may have had access to the policy or couldve asked for this earlier, he 
felt Ageas and its own agents couldve communicated the next steps earlier 
than it did.
oMr L should complete Company As claim form and engage with its claims 
process. While this would be looking at future costs, he said Ageas would 
also need to consider retrospective historic costs.
oHe was satisfied Ageas decline in March 2022 was unfair (for reasons 
previously given), so should it accept the claim, it should do so from this date. 
And it should also consider costs from October 2021 until March 2022 to 
account for its delays in providing this response.
oHad Mr L submitted a claim around October 2021, this claim wouldve been 
incorrectly declined (on the grounds it later sought to rely on that he felt was 
unfair).
oShould there be a further dispute about costs or should Ageas or Company A 
(on behalf of Ageas) decline the claim for a reason previously not raised, Mr L 
will be able to complain about this, but under a separate complaint to this one.
Ageas maintained its position to decline the claim, saying it could not comment on 
the cover that would apply given the dispute would lead to a single entity suing itself 
 and that Company A had not been given the opportunity to comment. And it 
reiterated it believed Mr Ls representatives had an ability to raise a claim in line with 
the policy terms.
So, the complaint was been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
Most recently Mr Ls representatives were in touch to say Company A had accepted the LEI 
claim, and this settled almost all matters, with the exception of the historic costs being 
incurred without consent of Ageas. So, in line with Mr Ls direction, I will only consider the 
remaining matter of these historic costs alone within my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.Ageas agent  Company A  has now accepted the LEI claim. So, I dont need to 
make a determination on this point as it is now resolved.
The matter left in dispute here is about historic costs incurred before the claim had 
been accepted. 
In this particular case its clear the claims process wasnt strictly followed by Mr L. 
This isnt disputed. But its also clear Mr Ls representative wrote to Ageas early in 
the claim and despite numerous opportunities to explain the required steps, Ageas 
failed to do so. 
Ageas has accepted that it (and any respective agents) shouldve been clearer on 
the claims process prior to March 2022 when the claim was declined. It made an 
offer of £500 plus VAT to account for this mistake. But it has sought to put the 
responsibility for this inaction on Mr Ls own legal representation. And it said it was 
for Company A to determine whether claims were covered.
Im in agreement with our Investigator that while Company A may be Ageas claims 
administrator, Ageas remains the insurer and is responsible for paying claims. So, I 
dont agree that Ageas can distance itself over this handling or decision making even 
if it delegates this responsibility to an agent  particularly where it accepts it 
shouldve done more earlier than it did.
I also dont consider it fair nor reasonable in this case to place the onus on Mr Ls 
own solicitors when Ageas accepts that it failed to be clear on what the process was 
itself. So, this hasnt changed my mind.
Ageas solicitors previously declined the LEI claim by relying on exclusions. It seems 
these have fallen away given the claim has been accepted so I see no benefit in 
going over these again, aside to say I would agree with our Investigators findings 
that these were unfairly applied in the circumstances. 
So, it most likely seems to me that if Mr L began the claims process earlier than he 
did, around October 2021, Ageas wouldve still likely sought to decline the matter 
using the above-mentioned exclusions.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable in this case for 
the costs covered under this claim to extend back to October 2021 as Im satisfied 
this fairly reflects Ageas and its agents mistakes in not being clear about its claims 
process earlier than it should have. 
For these reasons, I will direct Ageas Insurance Limited to ensure consideration of 
costs incurred by Mr L are not limited to the point in time it was accepted, and that 
this will extend to October 2021 onwards  subject to remaining policy terms and 
conditions.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and my direction is for Ageas Insurance Limited to ensure 
consideration of costs for Mr Ls LEI claim extends from October 2021 onwards in line with 
the remaining policy terms. I will leave it to Ageas to determine how it meets this direction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman