DRN-4148102
The complaint
Mr F complains about increases to his MBNA Limited credit cards minimum payment. 
What happened
Mr F has explained hes held a credit card with MBNA for several years with a consistent 
outstanding balance approaching the credit limit. Mr F says that between January 2022 and 
January 2023 the interest rate for his credit card went from 19.11% to 22.98% - an increase 
of 3.87%. 
In January 2023 Mr F contacted MBNA and complained about the increases to his minimum 
payment. MBNA issued a final response on 1 February 2023 that incorrectly said the 
increase in Mr Fs minimum payment was caused by an increase in the outstanding balance. 
MBNAs letter also said Mr F had been referred to its Persistent Debt team which was 
looking at the interest rate for his credit card. 
Mr F responded and pointed out his balance had remained at a consistent level. MBNA 
issued a follow up final response on 14 March 2023 and paid Mr F £100 for providing 
incorrect information in its earlier final response. MBNA went on to explain that intertest rate 
rises by the Bank of England had increased along with other factors that had influenced the 
decision to increase its own interest rate for the credit card. MBNA didnt agree it had made 
an error in terms of the intertest rate applied to Mr Fs credit card. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Fs complaint. They thought MBNA had applied 
interest and increased Mr Fs payments in line with the credit cards terms and conditions. 
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint and he asked to appeal. As Mr F asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
When Mr F first complained, MBNA incorrectly advised that an increase in his credit card 
balance had caused payments to go up. But its follow-up final response corrected MBNAs 
mistake and it also paid Mr F £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Im satisfied 
MBNAs payment of £100 fairly reflects the error it made when giving its final response. 
Ive looked at MBNAs standard terms and conditions for credit cards. The terms allow 
MBNA to make changes to the agreement, including the interest rate charged. There are a 
range of reasons MBNA can increase the interest rate. One of the reasons the interest rate 
can increase is to take changes to the Bank of England base rate into account. I think its fair 
to say that the Bank of England base rate increased between January 2022 and January 
2023. The increase in MBNAs interest rate is broadly in line with the increases in the Bank 
of England base rate generally. Im satisfied that MBNA has increased the interest rate 
applicable to his credit card in line with the account terms. Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but I 
havent been persuaded that MBNA made a mistake or acted unfairly. 
When Mr F spoke with MBNA it referred him to its Persistent Debt team which went on to 
block new spending and apply a lower interest rate. MBNAs confirmed that if Mr F is unable 
to afford payments going forward he has the option of discussing his account with its 
Financial Assistance team. Ive read and considered what Mr Fs told us when bringing his 
complaint. Whilst I understand Mr Fs concerns about the increases to his minimum 
payment, Im satisfied MBNA is willing to work with him and provide support if hes 
experiencing financial difficulties. I leave it to Mr F to decide whether he wishes to discuss 
his account further with MBNA. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr F but as Im satisfied MBNA has correctly applied interest rate 
increases to his credit card and dealt with his complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that MBNA Limited has already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman