DRN-1760719
The complaint
Mrs Ys complaint is about charges shes been asked to pay by LeasePlan UK Limited 
(LeasePlan).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs Y acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
 
The terms of the finance agreement held Mrs Y responsible for keeping the car in 
good repair and condition. She would be responsible for any damage to or 
deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA). 
Ive considered all the photographs of the damage that the inspector identified on the 
car. There are six panels that LeasePlan have made charges for as theyre 
scratched. The BVRLA guidance says, surface scratches of 25mm or less where the 
primer or bare metal is not showing are acceptable. In all cases I think the primer 
is showing and the charges are therefore merited.
The BVRLA guidance says that the interior upholstery must not be stained. The 
photograph shows some staining so I think this charge is merited too although I can 
see that LeasePlan have sent emails to Mrs Y suggesting theyd waive this charge.
I understand that Mrs Y is upset because she, responsibly, attempted to have any 
damage repaired before she handed the car back.  But, as the damage is evident in 
the photographs that have been provided I dont think I can say that LeasePlan have 
levied charges unreasonably.
I also understand that Mrs Y says she reached an agreement for LeasePlan to return 
the car to her so she could arrange repairs. LeasePlan didnt have to do that. The 
charges if the car was returned in an unsatisfactory condition were clearly set out and 
I can understand theyd be reluctant to delay the sale of the vehicle as that would 
result in further depreciation. So, I dont think they were obliged to return the car to 
Mrs Y once it had been inspected and collected.
Im not persuaded that LeasePlan have been unreasonable here and Im not asking them to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman