DRN-2014871
The complaint
Mr F complains about a credit card he held with Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mr F held a credit card with Santander  his wife was also a secondary cardholder on the 
account. 
Mr F says that on a number of occasions, both he and his wife attempted to use the cards 
for purchases and some of these purchases have been declined. He tells us that the 
declined transactions have led to embarrassment and inconvenience while in store. 
Mr F also tells us that he is unhappy with the amount his direct debit was collecting each 
month. Mr Fs direct debit was set up to collect the minimum payment due, and often this 
would be less than the amount his statement said would be collected. Santander also sent 
Mr F a letter to say that his account was in arrears after it had told him that he was up to 
date with repayments. Mr F says that the letter caused him distress and he was 
inconvenienced by having to contact Santander on the phone to resolve the issue. 
Santander responded to Mr Fs complaint to say that it couldnt see any declined 
transactions on his account. This could mean that there was a problem with the merchant 
terminal. Santander has since let this service know that the transactions not going through 
could also be down to a faulty card. 
In relation to the direct debit amounts, Santander has said that where refunds are received 
to the account, these are classed as payments towards the account, and so the direct debit 
will collect the difference between the refunds to the account and the minimum payment due. 
It has apologised for the letter it sent to Mr F about his account going into arrears. Its said its 
systems doesnt recognise where the direct debit hasnt been collected (or has collected 
less) as a result of refunds to the account. And so, a letter will automatically be sent. 
Santander says the letter states to ignore the notice of arrears if credits have been received 
to the account. 
Mr F was unhappy with Santanders response. He says he was caused a lot of 
embarrassment when his card was declined. Hes unhappy with how Santander applies 
refunds to the account and in turn reducing the amount that is collected by direct debit. Hes 
also not happy with the letter he received from Santander stating he was in arrears  and 
that Santander should have made it clearer to him that he might receive a letter of this 
nature. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint and didnt uphold it. He said that because 
Santander didnt have any evidence of the transactions being attempted and declined, he 
couldnt say that the reason for the decline was as a result of something Santander had 
done wrong. He also explained why Mr Fs direct debit collected different amounts each 
month  and that this was in the terms and conditions of Mr Fs account. He found that while 
the letter Mr F was unhappy about wasnt helpful, it did also explain that if there had been 
refunds or credits to the account then to ignore the letter. He thought that Santanders 
apology for this was enough. 
Mr F didnt agree with our investigator and so the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. And Ill explain my reasoning below. 
Declined transactions
I appreciate it must have been frustrating and embarrassing that Mr F and his wife havent 
been able to make purchases on the card. And I dont doubt what Mr F has told us about the 
transactions not going through. 
Santander has sent me copies of the transaction history for Mr Fs account  this would also 
show any transactions that had been attempted on the secondary card. Where a transaction 
has been declined, it would show in the transaction history with a decline reason next to it. 
There arent any declined transactions showing on Mr Fs account. Santander cant confirm 
what the reason for this is likely to be, given that it doesnt have a record of the transaction 
declining at all. But it said it could be a problem with the merchant terminal or a fault with the 
card itself. 
Since this complaint has been with this service, Mr F has got in touch with us to say that his 
card has been declined again. But this is after his account with Santander had been closed 
in December 2019. I note that Mr F is linked to a different account with Santander too, and 
so it could be that the card for the other account was used. And this could also be the reason 
why Santander cant see the declined transactions on this account. Because its possible 
that a different account was being used to attempt these purchases. I cant make a finding 
on the use of this other card linked to a different account, as this complaint is about Mr Fs 
account.
It is for this reason that I cant fairly say that Santander has done anything wrong here, and 
so I cant hold it responsible for the declined transactions on this account. 
Direct debit payments
Mr F and Santander have confirmed that Mr Fs direct debit payment was set up to collect 
the minimum amount due each month. Mr F is unhappy that on occasion smaller amounts 
have been collected. The terms and conditions of Mr Fs account say: 
18.4 Where a shop or other person you have paid using your Card gives you a refund, your 
Account will be re-credited when we receive an acceptable refund voucher. Any refund will 
be treated as a payment towards your Account balance and allocated in accordance with 
Condition 7. This means it may not pay off the specific Transaction to which it related.
So where Mr F has received a refund to the account, this has been classed as a payment 
towards the account. This means the direct debit collected the difference between the 
minimum amount due and the refunded amount  or it wont collect a payment at all if the 
refund was for more than the minimum payment. The terms and conditions of Mr Fs account allow Santander to apply refunds to the account 
as payments  so while Mr Fs other accounts with different lenders might do something 
differently, this doesnt necessarily mean that Santander has done something wrong. 
Ive also seen a copy of Mr Fs statements which also confirms that any refunds or credits 
received to the account more than five working days before the direct debit is due to collect, 
will reduce the amount collected by direct debit. So, I think Santander did what it needed to 
in order to make Mr F aware of this. 
Notice of arrears
Ive seen a copy of the letter Santander sent Mr F about arrears on his account. I can 
understand why Mr F would have been concerned on receipt of this letter. The letter said the 
account was in arrears and that Mr F would need to do something to bring the account back 
up to date. 
Santander say that this letter is automatically sent out where the full minimum payment 
amount isnt collected  even if this is as a result of it actively not collecting the full amount 
due because of a refund to the account, as has happened in this case. 
I can understand why Mr F was confused here, it does seem unusual to send letters of this 
nature when the account is up to date. However, I cant ignore the fact that the letter does 
state that if a refund has been applied to the account, then to ignore the letter. Mr F had 
recently received a refund to the account, and so this is why the full minimum payment 
(shown on the statement) wasnt collected and hence why he received the automated letter. 
Mr F has said he had conversations with Santander prior to the letter being sent  and one 
of these representatives could have let him know that he might receive a letter of this nature. 
Unfortunately, Santander hasnt been able to locate this call, so I dont know exactly what 
was said to Mr F. I dont dispute what he has told us. And I think it would have been helpful if 
Santander had let him know about this on the phone. However, the letter he received does 
tell Mr F to ignore it if he has received a refund  and so I think he was given the correct 
information at this point. 
I can understand why this situation has caused Mr F inconvenience, however I think Mr F 
was given the correct information  and so I think the apology Santander has already offered 
is enough.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman