DRN-3225122
The complaint
Mr K complains that Indigo Michael Limited trading as SafetyNet Credit is holding him 
responsible for borrowing that he didnt take out.
What happened
Mr K says he was the victim of identity theft and that a person was able to access his 
personal details and bank current account at another financial business. And to take a loan 
for £500 from SafetyNet Credit in January 2020. He later found out about this when he was 
unsuccessful in applying for a mortgage and in a job application. He had made a claim that a 
payment from his bank current account of £249 was fraudulent and received a refund from 
that business.
SafetyNet Credit said it had received Mr Ks complaint on 16 July 2021. And that an account 
was opened with it on 1 January 2020 which established read only access to Mr Ks current 
account at a different financial business through open banking. The borrowing of £500 was 
deposited into that bank current account the next day. It could see that a transfer of £518.27 
had left the current account on 13 January 2020 but this hadnt been flagged as fraudulent 
and it would expect his bank to have dealt with this. It couldnt see any other transfers 
around this time. It said it would co-operate with any police investigation. It offered to waive 
the interest of £160 on the borrowing and so to require Mr K to pay back £500.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Mr K had 
reported a card payment from his current account of £249 on 1 January 2020 as fraudulent 
to his own bank. And this had been refunded on 6 January 2020. But to set up an account 
with SafetyNet Credit a person would have needed access to his bank account online. That 
was so SafetyNet could be given read only rights: it didnt mean that it had these security 
details. Mr K hadnt reported any compromise of his account online and there had been no 
transfers reported that he didnt recognise. Mr K had since confirmed that he made the 
transfer of £518.27 himself and had said that this was to protect his money. Our investigator 
didnt think it most likely that he had been the victim of identity theft and fraud here.
Mr K didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He was 
unhappy to have been asked by this service for more information but not given the 
opportunity to present this. He said that his phone had been compromised and this is likely 
how his bank account details were known. He said that he had arranged a new account and 
no longer had his wages paid into the old current account after he identified the fraud. He 
maintained that his internet banking was compromised. SafetyNet Credit hadnt provided the 
IP address used for the application.
Mr K mentioned multiple transactions carried out in his name by a fraudster. The others had 
been removed after an investigation with a credit reference agency. Mr K didnt raise this 
one for 18 months as he had no idea that this was on his credit file at a different agency. He 
didnt see how the investigation had been done by this service when we couldnt say for 
certain what had happened. He wanted to clear his name. 
Mr K said he intended to request information from his bank account provider to show his 
internet banking was compromised. Mr K asked that this be approached with an open mind 
and account taken of the accepted fraud that day with his bank card. He said he had taken 
legal advice and there was disbelief expressed that there had been read access to his bank 
account needed for a payday loan. He had looked at the SafetyNet Credit website and to 
apply he would have needed to provide his online bank details. He wanted more time to find 
out further information. The consequences for him of what happened have been severe. He 
would accept his credit file being cleared as a resolution.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide informal dispute resolution. And I will be making my findings on the balance of 
probabilities: that is to say what is the most likely explanation of what happened.
I appreciate Mr K said he wanted to provide more information. And I think hes now had a 
reasonable opportunity to do so and I note he hasnt asked for any further extension beyond 
a deadline given to him by our investigator which has now passed. 
His bank providing the current account set out the extent of the fraud reported to it. And I 
havent seen any evidence he reported fraudulent access to his online banking. Im not 
persuaded that even if SafetyNet Credit had provided the IP address to him that would 
necessarily resolve who had accessed the account using that IP address. And it would be a 
matter for the relevant authorities to decide how to investigate that. I also agree with our 
investigator that to give read only access to his account would require a person to have 
online banking details.
There is no evidence of any fraudulent transfers out of his bank account. Ive looked at a 
record of entries that SafetyNet Credit provided. There was activity on his current account 
after 13 January 2020 when Mr K accepts he made a transfer of £518.27 to another account. 
And further payments to that account followed. These are referred to as being mobile 
transfers.
To find that Mr K was the victim of identity theft Id need to think all of the following were 
most likely:
- An unknown person was able to access his current account using online banking and 
had all the necessary personal information. This was required to set up open banking 
and apply for the loan from SafetyNet Credit. There is no evidence to support that 
happened.
- That person arranged for a loan of £500. And for some reason the person was never 
able to access that money despite having access to the account.
- Mr K simply didnt realise that he had an unexpected credit of £500 and seemed to 
have transferred that money out of his account and had the benefit of it and 
continued to use the account without doing anything about this.
- There is a good reason why he didnt report fraudulent access to online banking 
especially as his card details had been compromised at that time and he reports 
wider identity theft. And given that his use of the bank account didnt seem to be 
minimal as he says.
Im not persuaded that all of those points are most likely and so that this loan was taken out 
by an unknown third party. Mr K was as a result reasonably required to pay this back and is 
responsible for the consequences of the payment history including as reported to credit 
reference agencies. It seems that in recognition of him possibly overlooking this loan for an extended period SafetyNet Credit has said it will waive interest as a gesture of goodwill. The 
repayment of the balance is something he will need to discuss with it.
I know he will be very disappointed by this outcome. If he doesnt accept my decision he is 
free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman