DRN-2677772
The complaint
 Ms O complains about the quality of a used motorbike which was supplied to her under a 
hire purchase agreement with Black Horse Limited.
 
What happened
  In June 2019 Ms O acquired a used motorbike under a hire purchase agreement with Black 
Horse Limited.  She paid £8,600 for the motorbike. The motorbike was around five years old. 
Ms O tells us that the bike arrived damaged, specifically it had what she called cosmetic 
damage to the panels. Ms O said that the credit broker and showroom owner a company I 
will call S, told her that the motorbike had been dropped in transit and this is what had 
caused the damage.
In short, Ms Os position is that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) she is entitled 
to a like-for-like replacement. Ms O sent Black Horse Limited a link to a motorbike on Ss 
website which she said was a like-for-like replacement and she asked Black Horse Limited 
to replace the original motorbike with the new one. She also said that she had tried to reject 
the motorbike within the first 30 days of receiving it.
In summary, Black Horse Limiteds initial take on this complaint was that Ms O had originally 
asked for the cosmetic damage to be repaired. But later on, she changed her mind and 
asked for a replacement motorbike instead. It accepted that the motorbike had been 
supplied with cosmetic damage. But, it said this damage was limited to the rear cowl only. 
However, it pointed out that S was prepared to sort this out as it, S, had offered to pay for 
the repairs provided Ms O provided a quote, also it had offered her a warranty and Black 
Horse Limited thought this was a fair and reasonable offer. Further, it thought that rejection 
and replacement was not something that it had to offer in the circumstances.  It disagreed 
with Ms Os suggestion that she had tried to reject the motorbike within the first 30 days. 
Nonetheless it did accept that Ms O had most likely experienced distress and inconvenience 
as a result of the damage to the motorbike and it was prepared to offer her £200 for this. As 
far as it was concerned it had done enough and need not do anything further.
Dissatisfied Ms O complained to our service.
When the complaint was with us, Ms O also complained that the bike, was not of satisfactory 
quality because prior to acquiring the motorbike S had supplied photos of it. She suggested 
that the motorbike did not look like it did in the photos due to the damage, so the motorbike 
was not as described. Further, Ms O told us she was worried that the motorbike might have 
internal damage due to being dropped. 
In addition, Ms O complained that she was told prior to going ahead with the contract that 
the motorbike had a tracker and alarm but has since found out it does not. It appears that 
from the beginning of the agreement Ms O has not made any repayments towards the 
agreement, neither has she used the motorbike. The lack of repayments has been noted on 
her credit file, Ms O has complained about this. 
Moreover, whilst Ms O and Black Horse Limited have been in dispute the motorbike has not 
been serviced or had its MOT, this is a breach of the terms of the hire purchase agreement. 
But Ms O considers this breach has stemmed from Black Horse Limiteds own earlier breach 
in supplying her with a motorbike which is not of satisfactory quality. On this basis she wants 
Black Horse Limited to take responsibility for these costs.
Black Horse Limited responded that S had shown Ms O a number of photos prior to the 
contract which showed the state of the motorbike. In particular, it emphasised that the 
motorbike was not brand new and so was road worn to some extent and it said Ms O knew 
about this because the photos showed this. It had an independent expert who I will call A 
carry out an inspection of the motorbike and provide a report of its findings. Black Horse 
Limiteds position is that it can only be held to account for the damage that was caused by 
the dropping incident, but it is not responsible for any damage that was there beforehand. 
With this in mind, it instructed A to take a look at the photos of the state of the motorbike 
before it was dropped and then examine the motorbike to come to a conclusion about what 
damage had been caused by dropping the bike and what damage was there before. A did its 
report. Black Horse Limited agreed to pay for the repairs that A said had most likely been 
caused when the motorbike was dropped. S offered to do the work, but Ms O rejected this 
option.
Ms O found a garage to do repairs, Ill call this garage Y. According to Black Horse Limited, 
Y wanted to charge around £8,000 for the work (which included more work than just the 
damage A attributed to the dropping of the motorbike). Ms O indicated that the bill was 
around £7,000 but this did not include everything. Y has also charged storage fees. Black 
Horse Limited was not prepared to pay for the work Y quoted for, instead it asked Ms O to 
get a quote from another independent VAT registered garage. Ms O then suggested a 
second garage. Black Horse Limited initially accepted this second garage and was going to 
pay to have the motorbike moved to this new garage when it realised that the second garage 
was Ms Os employer. All this to and fro has led to delays.
Black Horse Limited suggests Ms O acted unreasonably in not making her repayments and 
not attending to the servicing and the MOT of the motorbike. It does not agree to amend Ms 
Os credit file as Ms O has asked, it said it had told Ms O from the get-go that she needed to 
keep up with her repayments. That said, early on, it had agreed to update her credit file if 
she brought the repayments up to date but she hadnt. Neither does Black Horse Limited 
accept that it should take responsibility for the servicing and MOT. It does not agree that Y 
has charged storage fees due to anything it has done wrong and has declined to pay these 
fees as a result. That said, Black Horse Limited said it was prepared to pay for the premium 
for the first month of Ms Os insurance policy. It also agreed that when it gets the repairs 
done it will also pay for the consumables.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Os complaint. He was not persuaded that Ms O had 
tried to reject the motorbike within the first 30 days. That being so he did not agree that it 
was fair and reasonable to allow Ms O to reject the motorbike now.
Plus, our investigator took on board that both parties had accepted that the motorbike was 
not of satisfactory quality due to the cosmetic damage which arose from the motorbike being 
dropped. Both parties also agreed that because Black Horse Limited had supplied the 
motorbike it was responsible for putting this right. But the parties did not agree on what 
damage had been caused by this. Ms Os stance was that the vast majority of the issues 
highlighted by Y ought to be put right by Black Horse Limited as she suggested this work 
was only required because the motorbike was dropped. On the other hand, Black Horse 
Limited wanted to rely on As report. In the circumstances our investigator was persuaded that Black Horse Limited could rely on the independent expert report from A. He did not 
agree that Black Horse Limited had to pay for the storage fees or the servicing as these did 
not flow from anything Black Horse Limited had done wrong. But he noted that Black Horse 
Limited had agreed to pay for what were called the consumables.
Next, our investigator moved on to the question of the alarm and the tracker. He took a look 
at the written advert for the motorbike and he saw no mention of these items in that. On this 
basis, he concluded that the motorbike had never been described as having these 
specifications so Ms O could not fairly say the motorbike was not as described for this 
reason.
Our investigator turned to Ms Os credit file. He noted that he had no proper basis in the 
circumstances to say Black Horse Limited had to change the information it had asked the 
credit reference agencies to put on her credit file.
Our investigator thought Black Horse Limited had acted reasonably in wanting the repairs to 
be done by an independent garage. He did not agree that the garage where Ms O worked 
fitted the bill.
In conclusion, our investigator recommended that Black Horse Limited pay for the repairs 
that A had indicated had most likely been caused when the motorbike was dropped.
Black Horse Limited appeared to accept our investigators recommendation, Ms O didnt. In 
brief, she responded by repeating her earlier stance. She also raised questions about our 
process for dealing with complaints. She told us that Black Horse Limited had agreed over 
the phone to pay for the servicing of the motorbike. Ms O called into question whether the 
motorbike was roadworthy she thought we had no proper basis for indicating that it was. She 
didnt agree that in the circumstances she was responsible for the servicing of the motorbike. 
She suggested the advert for the motorbike wasnt relevant when looking at the alarm and 
the tracker point. This was because she been told the motorbike had an alarm and tracker, 
shed never said that this statement had been made in the advert.
Ms O listed the expenses she has run up due to not using the motorbike. She also explained 
how and why her financial situation has changed, for the worse, during the course of this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Before I look at the substance of Ms Os complaint, Id like to explain that our service has a 
two-stage process. In the first stage our investigators take a look at complaints. If one or 
more of the parties dont accept our investigators recommendations, then we move it to the 
next stage where ombudsmen look at complaints. Ms O seems to think that perhaps Black 
Horse Limited was bound by what our investigator said in his recommendations as the 
complaint progressed, it is not, and neither was she.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Satisfactory quality
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The hire purchase agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement  
therefore this service can consider a complaint relating to it. There are various rules and 
protections about how hire purchase agreements operate, including those set out in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) The CCA is therefore relevant law in this complaint.
Black Horse Limited is also the supplier of the goods (i.e. the motorbike) under this type of 
agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality. The CRA in particular sets 
out some of the responsibilities of a supplier in relation to the quality of goods it supplies. 
The CRA is therefore also relevant law in this complaint. The CRA says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a motorbike, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account 
might include things like the age of the motorbike when supplied and when the issue that the 
consumer complains about first arose
.
The CRA also sets out what the situation is with defects that are brought to the attention of 
the consumer before the contract is made. Specifically, it provides that If there is an existing 
fault with the goods and these are brought to the attention of the consumer before they hire 
them, the consumer wont be able to later claim that the goods are not of satisfactory quality 
because of that fault, and reject the goods, or demand a repair or replacement on that basis. 
The same also applies if the consumer examined the goods and the fault should have been 
found by that examination.
So, the first thing I am going to look at is whether in the circumstances the goods were of 
satisfactory quality and if not why not. And Ill also be looking at whether on balance, the 
defects were brought to Ms Os attention before the contract was made.
Lets start with what the parties do agree about. They both agree that some damage was 
caused when the motorbike was dropped. They also agree Black Horse Limited is obliged to 
put this right. Where they dont agree is about the extent of that damage.
Black Horse Limited supplied Ms O with a used motorbike it was around five years old and 
had mileage of 5,924. In these circumstances, I think a reasonable person would have 
expected the motorbike to have signs of use. In other words, I dont think a reasonable 
person would have expected the body work to be pristine. So, the fact that the motorbike 
does have signs of wear and tear is to be expected and does not by itself mean the quality of 
the motorbike is not satisfactory.
Ms O suggests however that the vast majority of the cosmetic defects occurred as a direct 
result not of wear and tear but of the bike being dropped. Black Horse Limited suggests on the contrary all the cosmetic defects were there to begin with aside from the damage to the 
rear cowl. 
On balance, I find Ms Os suggestion unlikely, because as I say above I think it likely that the 
motorbike would have had cosmetic defects before this. Further, I have the before the bike 
was dropped photos which I have no reason to doubt and they show the state of the bike 
before it was dropped the photos show many cosmetic defects which appear consistent with 
wear and tear. Moreover, I also have the information from A, the independent expert. It has 
looked at the before photos and examined the motorbike and indicated what damage was 
most likely caused by the dropping of the motorbike. 
 Ms O has provided an assessment from Y. I dont find that Y is impartial as it was in the 
running to do the work. Moreover, the size of its bill for the work around £8,000, that is 
almost as much as the bike costs does not suggest to me that it limited itself to looking at 
putting right the damage caused by the dropping. Moreover, Ive not seen anything that 
shows Ms O instructed Y to establish what damage was most likely caused by the accident 
and then quote for that restoration work which is the brief that A was given. Neither have I 
seen anything that suggests Y was told to not quote for any work that merely related to wear 
and tear. In the circumstances, Im satisfied I can rely on As assessment in preference to 
Ys. 
Further, Black Horse Limited sent us information from Ss records showing that Ms O was 
told about the damages (other than that caused by dropping the bike) prior to the sale. Black 
Horse Limited says photos showing the pre-exiting wear and tear damage were sent to Ms O 
before the contract was made. I dont find it likely that Ss records are likely to be incorrect 
about this point. It follows that I find it is likely that this information was sent to Ms O before 
the contract. That being so, Im not persuaded that the motorbike did not meet the 
description she was given of the motorbike. Further still, given what the law says about 
defects brought to a consumers attention before the contract was made I find I have no 
proper basis to say that Ms O is entitled to reject, or demand repair or replacement based on 
the cosmetic defects that were most likely there from before she contracted with Black Horse 
Limited and which were brought to her attention most likely.
Ms O tells us that the motorbike is not as described also because it does not have an alarm 
or a tracker. Her position is that she was told the motorbike had both items. I recognise she 
suggests the advert does not go to the heart of this, but I think it is relevant. In so far as, I 
cant see why the motorbike would have been advertised with no mention of an alarm and a 
tracker but then Ms O would be told something different and incorrect in person. In the 
circumstances, I am not persuaded that Ms O was told the motorbike did have an alarm and 
a tracker.
Repair
Now Ill look at what a fair and reasonable remedy is in relation to the cosmetic damage that 
was caused by dropping the motorbike.
The CRA gives consumers a short-term right to reject where goods are not of satisfactory 
quality. This entitles a consumer to reject the goods for a refund and terminate the contract, 
during a 30 day period. Ms O tells us she rejected the motorbike within the first 30 days. She 
explains that she did this in a phone call, she has not said which call. Moreover, I note that at 
first the thrust of her complaint was about asking for repairs and then replacement. In the 
circumstances, I am not persuaded that she did ask to reject the motorbike as she suggests. 
But as an aside I would mention that, since it is agreed that Ms O did ask for a repair within 
30 days she has not lost the right to reject the motorbike if the repairs dont bring the 
motorbike up to the required standard.Black Horse Limited has offered to repair the motorbike. I think this is a fair and reasonable 
solution. Black Horse Limited also gave Ms O the chance to nominate her own garage within 
certain parameters. But unfortunately, Ms O chose two unsuitable garages. One that quoted 
a seemingly disproportionate amount for the work and one where she was employed. I 
recognise Ms O suggests that it was not inappropriate for her to suggest the garage where 
she worked (she tells us she no longer does) but I disagree, I can see the potential for 
mutual uneasiness and even perhaps a conflict of interest. 
In the circumstances and given how long it has taken to get to this point, I think it is fair and 
reasonable that Black Horse Limited gets to choose the garage that will do the work. I also 
think it is fair and reasonable that if it chooses to Black Horse Limited can use S to do the 
work. Again, I recognise that Ms O may object to this, she has told us that S has a bad 
reputation but she has not backed up that opinion. Ive not seen anything that suggests to 
me that S would not be able to carry out the repair work, correctly. Further, it is in Black 
Horse Limiteds best interests and in the best interests of its customer, Ms O, to make sure 
whoever it picks to do the repair work does it correctly. That might, I hope, give Ms O some 
reassurance.
For completeness Id add that Black Horse Limited must pay for the motorbike to be taken 
from wherever it is now (I think it is at Ys premises) to wherever the repairs will be done. But 
this does not mean it will have to pay Ys storage fees. Ill explain why later.
Credit file
Ms O and Black Horse Limited freely entered into a hire purchase agreement that said Ms O 
would make repayments to Black Horse Limited. Given that the parties intended to be bound 
by the terms of the agreement, I dont see why Black Horse may not rely on it. Ms O agreed 
to repay it and it appears she has not. I realise Ms O may believe she had good reason not 
to pay Black Horse Limited she has mentioned its breach of contract she has also talked 
about not using the motorbike and being wary of doing so for a number of reasons. But 
nothing that Black Horse Limited has done makes me find that it is fair and reasonable that it 
should be stopped from asking for repayments or that it should not report her repayment 
history to the credit reference agencies. 
Black Horse Limiteds records show it told Ms O that she needed to keep up with the 
repayments. I have no reason to doubt these records. Further, Ms O has the bike and as far 
as I am aware she can ride it. She chose not to thats her choice to make but I cant fairly 
hold Black Horse Limited responsible for her choice. Moreover, lenders are obliged to 
provide accurate information to credit reference agencies. 
As a goodwill gesture Black Horse Limited had previously offered to ask the credit reference 
agencies to remove any negative information about her repayment history if she brought her 
repayments up to date. But the terms of its offer were not met, so the offer lapsed. It will be 
up to Black Horse Limited if it wants to make a similar offer again.
MOT and servicing 
The hire purchase agreement also provides that Ms O should pay for the servicing and the 
MOT of the motorbike. I dont agree that because the motorbike suffered cosmetic damage 
that makes it not of satisfactory quality this means that Black Horse Limited must pay for the 
servicing and MOT itself and cannot demand payment for these matters from Ms O as the 
contract permits. These are separate issues the one has nothing to do with the other here. 
Neither do I agree that Ms O must not be asked by Black Horse Limited to meet her 
contractual obligations because she is worried that the motorbike is unroadworthy, when there is nothing to show this is the case.
Ms O says Blackhorse did agree to pay for the servicing, Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me that it did. Its stance has always been it wasnt going to pay this.
Insurance premium
Black Horse Limited agreed to pay the premium for the first month of the motorbike 
insurance. It did this in the context of helping to get the motorbike moved to a place where it 
could get it repaired. I realise that things have moved on since. But it seems Black Horse 
Limited is still willing to pay this, so it should. But it will need to see proof from Ms O of what 
amount she paid and that she paid it.
Storage charges
Y may well be seeking to impose storage charges. I dont agree that these storage charges 
arose because Black Horse Limited supplied Ms O with a motorbike that has cosmetic 
damage. Rather, I think the storage costs flow from Ms Os choice not to remove the 
motorbike from Ys premises. That being so, I have no proper basis to require Black Horse 
Limited to pay these fees. 
What I am going to say next may be difficult for Ms O. Ms O must prepare herself, because it 
may be Y will not release the motorbike until the storage fees are paid. Black Horse Limited 
is not obliged to pay for the storage fees. And if Y will not release the motorbike it will be 
impossible for Black Horse Limited to carry out the repairs. And I cant fairly and reasonably 
ask Black Horse Limited to do something that is impossible. Therefore, to get the ball rolling 
Ms O might have to pay Y for the storage fees herself. That said, nothing I have said here 
prevents Black Horse Limited from deciding to take a pragmatic approach and as a gesture 
of goodwill pay for the storage fees to get the motorbike released.
Distress and inconvenience
Black Horse Limited recognises that Ms O has experienced distress and inconvenience 
because it supplied her with a motorbike that was not of satisfactory quality. It has offered 
£200 for this. Having regard to the general level of awards this service makes for distress 
and inconvenience I consider that its offer is fair. I do not therefore consider that it would be 
correct for me to require it to pay Ms O any more than it has already offered to do. 
First new matter
Ms O has told us she is worried the motorbike might not be safe to drive due to being 
dropped. But it has not been established whether the bike has sustained damage from being 
dropped that makes it unsafe to drive. 
Black Horse Limited has said it will look into this separately should it get information to show 
this is the case. 
Ive not looked into this point as part of this complaint. Its a new issue and not one Black 
Horse Limited has investigated or dealt with in its final response. It follows I have no power 
to look at it in this complaint.
Second new matter
It appears that Ms O may now be experiencing financial difficulties. This is a new issue and 
has not been considered by Black Horse Limited in its final response to Ms O or investigated within this complaint. It follows that I am unable to look at this matter in this final decision.
However, I can make this general point if Ms O is struggling financially especially given the 
wider circumstances currently, then she should contact Black Horse Limited to let it know 
this. I remind Black Horse Limited of its obligations to act fairly, with due consideration and 
forbearance towards consumers who are in financial difficulties. 
Expenses
Ms O tells us about expenses she has run up because she has not been using the 
motorbike. But for all the reasons Ive gone through above, I think it was her choice not to 
use the motorbike, although I recognise she is unlikely to see it like that. Nonetheless, I cant 
fairly and reasonably find that Black Horse Limited needs to refund her for these expenses 
when they dont on balance flow from anything that it did wrong. 
My final decision
  My final decision is that Black Horse Limited must:
At no cost to Ms O arrange for the motorbike to be repaired in line with the report 
from A which indicates what cosmetic damage was most likely caused because the 
motorbike was dropped in transit. It must also pay for the consumables as it has 
already agreed to do. Whilst the motorbike is being repaired Black Horse Limited 
cannot charge Ms O for the period the motorbike is out of action being repaired.
Pay Ms O £200 for distress and inconvenience, if it has not already done so.
If Ms O produces information to show how much she paid and that she made the 
payment Black Horse Limited must refund her for the premium paid for the first 
month of insurance for the motorbike.
It must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which Ms O accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £200 from the date of 
the final decision until the date of settlement at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If Black Horse Limited considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms O how much its taken off. It should also give Ms O a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman