DRN-4035513
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited rejected their claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought solar panels for their home in 2019. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the misrepresentations or 
breach of contract of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to 
the installer misleading Mr and Mrs M into believing that the panels would be self-funding, 
which they werent.
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mr and Mrs M, and that fair redress would be 
for the loan to be restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would 
provide over a ten-year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual 
performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Shawbrook didnt agree saying the sales documents, which Mr and Mrs M signed, made it 
clear the system wouldnt be self-funding. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Mr and Mrs M say that the supplier (which Ill refer to as P) told them the system would pay 
for itself from the income Mr and Mrs M would receive for the excess energy produced by 
the system that would be sold to the grid. But this has turned out to be untrue, so they felt 
they were mis-led during the sale. Mr and Mrs M say, bearing in mind their financial situation 
at the time, they werent able to take on an additional financial obligation and wouldnt have 
bought the system if theyd been told that it would take a significant number of years for 
them to recover the costs, and that theyd have to cover the payments in the meantime. 
Shawbrook says the documents from the time if sale (namely the sales quotation document), 
makes it explicitly clear that the system wouldnt be immediately self-funding, and that there 
would likely be a deficit between the benefits and costs for a number of years. 
I have looked at the sales quotation document, and as Shawbrook says, it does make it very 
clear the system wouldnt be self-funding. The repayment table explicitly shows that there 
would be a deficit between the benefit and cost for the first 9 years after installation. The 
table setting out the lifetime benefit the system is estimated to produce, also shows the 
benefits would unlikely cover the cost of the system for at least 12 years. 
So, the case rests on whether Im satisfied that P sales representative followed its usual 
sales process or if they instead did mislead Mr and Mrs M as they say. 
Shawbrook says the sales quotation document formed part of Ps usual sales process, that 
the sales representative would have referred to it during the sales meeting and that the 
consumers have also signed the quotation document. This service has seen a number of 
complaints like this, and usually, we can see that the document is an integral part of its usual 
sales process. 
However, Mr and Mrs M says they were not shown the entire sales quotation document. 
They say they were only shown the page they signed which has some of the costs set out. 
Mr and Mrs M say, being concerned about the effect on their financial situation, they 
repeatedly checked that the benefits would outweigh the costs, and they were assured 
verbally that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
Mr and Mrs M also say they received a series of emails giving them more information, 
including the credit agreement around the time of the sale meeting in March 2019. They 
agreed an installation date of 2 April 2019 and the system was subsequently installed as 
agreed on 2 April 2019. 
Theyve said they can now see they did receive a copy of the sales quotation document on 1 
April 2019, but they werent expecting any documents at this time, and didnt see or check 
this before the installation. They reiterate it wasnt referred to during the sales meeting. 
Mr and Mrs M have sent in a screenshot of their email inbox, and I can see, as they say, 
they received a series of emails from P and Shawbrook in March 2019, but the quotation 
document wasnt sent until 1 April 2019. And shortly after this, they appear to have also 
received a number of post installation emails. 
Mr and Mrs Ms testimony has been very clear and consistent. They have provided a 
considerable amount of detail surrounding the sales meeting. I also note that there was a 
delay in them receiving payments for the excess energy produced by the system due to their 
provider needing to install an upgraded smart meter that could track how much energy was 
being sent to the grid. Once this was complete in 2021, and Mr and Mrs M received their first 
payments, they realised that these payments fell far short of what they say they were 
assured they would receive by P. Around this time, they promptly raised a complaint. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs M have said and submitted as well as 
considering carefully Shawbrooks submissions. Overall having carefully considered 
everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained by the investigator, I uphold 
this case. I find Mr and Mrs Ms testimony persuasive, and Im not satisfied that the sales 
quotation document was referred to during the sales meeting. Instead, I find, that the system 
was, while unusually, likely misrepresented to them as they say. 
I think the timeline of emails sent, and the way Mr and Mrs M behaved, namely raising a 
complaint promptly after realising their social energy payments wouldnt cover the cost of the 
loan, is compelling evidence of what they genuinely believed at the time of sale. Mr and Mrs 
M receiving the quotation document almost a week after the other sales documents were 
sent to them also explains why they didnt question the contents of it. The email being sent 
immediately before the installation left them very little opportunity to review it and realise the 
system wouldnt be self-funding. Additionally, receiving so many post installation emails 
shortly after it, I can see how this got missed. Overall, Im persuaded that a misrepresentation took place and Mr and Mrs M were not 
given clear information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and 
would equate to an additional cost for them. Based on what Ive seen, Im also satisfied that 
its unlikely the system is self-funding, and they likely suffered a loss. 
So, I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Mr and Mrs M fairly and they lost out because of what 
Shawbrook did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by 
recalculating the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr 
and Mrs M from the solar panels over a 10-year period so they pay no more than that, and 
they keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr and Mrs M are paying (or have paid) more than 
they should have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse them accordingly. Should the 
calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the 
calculation should be shared with Mr and Mrs M by way of explanation. 
Mr and Mrs M have settled the loan by refinancing, so they should supply evidence of the 
refinance to Shawbrook, and Shawbrook should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs M paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs M receive their 
refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs M paid each month with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs M receive their 
refund.
5. Pay Mr and Mrs M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding
Shawbrook has offered £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused and I think 
thats a fair offer. I direct that Shawbrook should pay £300 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Shawbrook Bank 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman