DRN-3068481
The complaint
Mr P says St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) set up his life assurance policy 
incorrectly, meaning it had an insufficient sum assured.  
To resolve his complaint, he wants SJP to pay for the ongoing shortfall in his life cover. 
What happened
Mr P met with a SJP adviser in October 2015 to discuss personal protection. Mr P had an 
ongoing relationship with SJP for financial matters. 
He agreed to apply for life assurance that had a monthly premium of £125 for a 30-year 
term. Mr P says the policy had a sum assured of £418,360  as he had originally required 
£500,000 of cover.
In 2020, Mr P reviewed his policy and discovered that the sum assured was in fact 
£169,934. He enquired with the insurer and it explained how the policy had been rated at the 
time of the application based on Mr P having disclosed that he was a smoker. 
Mr P complained to SJP. He said he told the adviser that he smoked; the adviser said that it 
was accounted for in his policy premium. He said he had been misled to believe he had the 
cover he wanted, so the adviser could sell him a policy at the lower premium.  
Mr P also complained about other areas of financial advice and administrative issues and 
some compensation was made for those matters. But they do not form the subject of this 
complaint, so I will not refer to them further here. 
SJP rejected this aspect of the complaint. It said the life cover was premium driven. Once 
the records had been accurately updated to reflect Mr P being a smoker, the level of life 
cover which could be supported with a guaranteed monthly premium of £125 reduced to 
£169,934. 
It noted that Mr P had received the level of cover he paid for. If he had been unhappy with 
the amendment, he could have contacted the adviser at the time the policy went on risk. 
Mr P then sought legal advice and his solicitor wrote to SJP in October 2020. It said there 
had been serious shortcomings and negligence on the part of SJP. It said at the time of 
signing the policy questionnaire and related documents, Mr P was led to believe by SJP that 
he was procuring a policy for approximately £500,000 at a monthly premium of £125.
The solicitor said it took the view that Mr Ps questionnaire had been tampered with, in order 
to substantiate SJP's claim of an error taking place. It said Mr P trusted and relied on the 
information and advice provided by his financial adviser, and like many other layperson 
customers, he did not check the documentation forwarded by the insurance company.  
SJP disagreed. It said that the solicitors suggestion that the subsequent correction of the 
error represented a deliberate ploy to ensure Mr P still went ahead with the proposed 
insurance policy was conjecture. 
SJP contended that it was inconceivable any of its advisers would embark on alleged 
fraudulent activity in the hope or expectation that a customer would fail to check their 
documentation to note they hadnt received the level of protection they were expecting.
The solicitor said Mr P remained unhappy and it made further detailed submissions to SJP in 
February 2021. It said, in summary:
Mr P still believes there appears to be an element of fraud involved on the part of 
SJP in procuring his life insurance policy;
the questionnaire completed by Mr P shows smoker was ticked;
Mr P was told verbally that the cover sought was £500,000;
however, he accepts that he was able to secure just over £418,000 of cover for the 
budgeted premium of £125;
that the advisers PA corrected the error with the insurer is spurious  the PA wasnt 
present at the meeting with Mr P  that was held at his workplace;
the solicitor submits that both the adviser and her PA took their chance to sell cover 
at the wrong sum assured, knowing Mr P wouldnt have otherwise agreed to it;
and consequently, they knew Mr P would rely on what he was told and that he 
wouldnt check the insurers policy information;
at no point did SJP tell Mr P about its mistake. 
Mr P said SJP ought to put right its mistake by obtaining the right cover of £500,000 to 2045 
and paying the difference in premium over and above Mr Ps £125 monthly contribution.  
SJP was not willing to engage in further correspondence on the complaint. So, Mr P referred 
his complaint to this service. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint. She said that she understood Mr Ps smoker status 
had originally been omitted from the policy application. But, SJP had notified the insurer 
before the policy began and this accounted for the reduced sum assured. Mr P had been 
told as such by the insurer because it sent him the relevant paperwork when the policy 
began in December 2015. 
The investigator noted that she couldnt say for sure what was discussed between Mr P and 
the adviser but she had not seen any evidence which supported Mr P having been told he 
would receive the higher sum assured of £418,360 for £125. Mr P would have had to pay a 
greater premium (of over £300) for the higher sum assured, and so she couldnt say SJP 
had done anything wrong.
Mr P disagreed with our investigator. He said:
there was clear evidence of document tampering along with fraudulent behaviour by 
the employees of SJP;
he wholly relied on SJP as a professional organisation to guide him through the 
process;
SJP failed in its duty to keep him updated on the error and he believe it did this in 
order to be deliberately misleading;
the investigator didnt consider the document tampering or issues of fraud;
he considers the right outcome is for SJP to source and pay for the cover he is 
missing;
at no time during the advice did the SJP adviser tell him who the insurer would be;he had disposable income at the time of some £2,000 per month  he could easily 
have afforded the extra premium if needs be;
he wanted the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman because he felt that a fresh 
review of the evidence was required.  
Our investigator said she had agreed an error took place but explained again that Mr Ps 
application as a smoker would always have secured him £169,934 of cover with the insurer. 
And SJPs error didnt materially affect that. She reiterated that Mr P was sent 
documentation from the insurer in 2015 showing the sum assured had changed. So, she did 
not agree that she could hold SJP liable now or require it to pay for increased cover. 
As Mr P remained unhappy with the outcome, the complaint was referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans review. 
Though I realise Mr P will be disappointed, I dont believe this complaint should be upheld. 
I realise that on recent review of his documentation Mr P has been upset to discover his life 
assurance policy does not have the sum assured he expected. However, I do not believe 
that SJP is responsible for that error, such that it should be paying for lost cover now.  
Mr P has an ongoing financial advice relationship with SJP and he was also receiving 
investment and pensions advice. In respect of the protection policy, Mr P met with the 
adviser in October 2015 to discuss his family protection needs. 
I realise Mr P says he wanted around £500,000 of cover for his wife in the event he passed 
away.  I do not doubt that, and it appears than when a quote was produced, this is how the 
estimated sum assured of £418,630 was arrived at. An electronic application was made on 
21 October 2015, which noted that the application was premium driven at £125 per month.
What this means is that this was not a policy sought where Mr P would pay any premium to 
ensure he had a precise level of cover  such as might happen with a mortgage where the 
sum assured would be designed to broadly match a mortgage to ensure it is paid off in the 
event a borrower passed away. Instead, Mr P was taking out family protection and the 
application was made based on the premium he was prepared to pay -  so whilst there was a 
quoted sum assured, this would ultimately depend on the amount the insurer was going to 
charge for the cover when assessing the risk of insuring Mr P based on his circumstances 
and medical disclosures.  
I cannot see any reason to conclude that if Mr P had wanted to pay more for cover, he could 
not have done so. We dont have record of the discussion, but the parties arrived at an 
agreed premium value that Mr P was willing to pay  that isnt unreasonable. 
The first application did not disclose Mr Ps smoker status. Nonetheless, the insurer required 
a medical assessment and asked that Mr P take a cotinine test (which is used to measure a 
history of tobacco use). Mr P did so, and told the nurse that he was in fact a smoker.  
On this basis, SJPs adviser resubmitted the policy application, this time on paper on 30 
October 2015. However, the yes box had been crossed through on the smoking question. 
This meant that on 11 November 2015, an email from the advisers PA was sent to the 
insurer setting out how Mr P is a smoker and this information was ticked incorrectly on the form as I had misheard him. Kindly update this information on your records accordingly. I 
dont read this email as if the PA undertook the meeting  it appears to be written on the 
advisers behalf. 
Mr P and his solicitor have contended that SJPs adviser must have changed the tick box on 
the form to show he was a non-smoker to mislead him about the policy premium with the 
intention of correcting it by email to the insurer after the event.  
However, I do not accept this version of events. Mr P and his representative have both told 
SJP that they believe there is a clear picture of fraud, but I have not seen any objective 
evidence to suggest that was the case. My view is, on balance, that human error occurred 
on the original application  which was taken down on paper and submitted online.  
The contemporaneous evidence from the time supports that the adviser said she misheard 
Mr P and made a mistake. There is no evidence from either party in terms of Mr P having 
been aware of the mistake. But I dont believe that this means Mr P would have otherwise 
been insured for £500,000 of life cover. 
I also do not accept that it is reasonable in the circumstances to disregard the information 
sent from the insurer. This business was distinct from SJP. Mr P needed to review what was 
being sent to him. I say that with particular reference to the fact that his sum assured was 
not confirmed in any correspondence from SJP.  Nor have I seen evidence to suggest he 
was told expressly that he would be covered at £500,000 for a sum assured based on the 
premium payable. SJPs adviser could not have known that, as she is not party to the 
underwriting and cost calculations undertaken by the insurer.  
Mr P had undergone a medical; I think a reasonable response to that process (and the delay 
from the original application until the policy began) would be to check the insurers offering 
carefully  because the majority of applications of this type do not need medical 
assessments. Even if Mr P hadnt realised the significance of the medical assessment, I still 
think it was key to review the documents because of the passage of time and that the sum 
assured was not going to be the £500,000 he and his solicitor say he actually required.  
There is a bold warning on the insurers letter of 15 December 2015  to Mr P (sent to him, 
not SJP) which told him in clear terms to please read these documents carefully. It went 
on to explain how Mr P needed to ensure everything that had been disclosed was accurate 
and tell the insurer if not, as well as setting out the premium and sum assured of £169,934. 
It is unfortunate thay Mr P chose not to review the new policy documentation sent to him. But 
I disagree with his solicitor that a layperson would not reasonably read that information. To 
the contrary, it was vital that Mr P did so because he was taking out a long term insurance 
contract based on medical disclosures that were only known to him, not SJP or the insurer.  
When we look at a fair and reasonable outcome to complaints at this service, we try to place 
a complainant in the position theyd be in but for a business having made a mistake. In this 
case, Mr P would have been in the position he is now. His disclosure about smoking means 
that insurance costs more  as is the case with life assurance policies because tobacco use 
creates a greater risk for the insurer and therefore a greater cost for a policyholder.  
The premium of £125 could only purchase cover at a sum assured of £169.934  that is 
what the insurer charged for life assurance with smokers rates. If Mr P had wanted 
£500,000 of cover, hed needed to have paid more for that. 
I do not accept that SJP should bear responsibility for that cost  it corrected its mistake 
before the policy began, and Mr P had reasonable opportunity to understand what he had purchased. It does not follow that SJP ought to pay Mr Ps premiums until 2044 for cover 
that he could not have purchased without paying a greater premium in the first place.    
My final decision
Though this decision wont be what Mr P has hoped for, I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman