DRN-4007509
The complaint
Mr S complains that Coutts & Company closed his accounts without providing a reason.   
What happened
Mr S held accounts with Coutts. He says that when he went to use his credit card in 
September 2021, it was declined. When he spoke to Coutts, they explained they had 
decided to close his account and did not provide a reason. 
As Mr S had not received the account closure notice that provided him with two months to 
take alternative arrangements, Coutts reopened Mr S accounts and provided a new notice 
of closure with an exit date of 22 November. However, Mr S explained he wanted to provide 
further evidence in an appeal to keep his accounts open. Despite this, Coutts issued a final 
notice of closure on 16 February 2022 and the accounts were closed on 22 April 2022. They 
said that this was a commercial decision made in line with the relevant terms and conditions.
Mr S was unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our service. He requested for his 
accounts to be reinstated and to receive compensation. Our Investigator looked at the case 
and felt that Coutts had closed the accounts with fair notice and were not obliged to provide 
Mr S with a reason why. So, they did not feel Coutts had made an error.
Mr S disagreed with the outcome. As an informal agreement could not be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. 
Looking at the terms and conditions of the account, it states Coutts may close any of your 
accounts or terminate the agreement for any other reason on at least 60 days notice. 
Looking at this, Im satisfied that Coutts decision to close the accounts with 60 days was 
made in line with the relevant terms and conditions. 
So, Ive gone on to consider whether Coutts has acted fairly and reasonably in how theyve 
taken this action. I realise that this will seem unfair to Mr S  after all, Coutts have closed an 
account he wanted to keep and wont tell him why theyve done this. However, they are not 
required to do so. I have reviewed Coutts rationale for making this decision and I dont think 
they reached it unreasonably. 
Itll be frustrating for Mr S that we cant provide this reasoning to him, but Coutts is entitled to 
ask us to keep information confidential, where it relates to commercially sensitive matters. I 
hope that itll be of some reassurance to Mr S that this service as an impartial and 
independent body has reviewed these reasons though. Having done so I think that they were 
entitled to make the decision they did and followed the correct process for doing so, which 
means I cant see they have made an error in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr S has asked for me to delay providing my decision on his case until he 
receives data from a subject access request he made with Coutts. However, having carefully 
reviewed all of the information available to me, I am satisfied that I have enough information 
to come to a fair and reasonable outcome on Mr S case. 
Based on what Ive set out above, I do not instruct Coutts to reinstate Mr S accounts and I 
do not think compensation is appropriate in the circumstances.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr S complaint against Coutts & Company. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman