DRN-2669603
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs P are complaining about the cancellation of their term assurance policy by The 
Prudential Life Assurance Company Limited.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr K and Mrs P received a letter from Prudential telling them that their 
term assurance policy had been cancelled. The letter said this was because theyd not made 
payments due from May 2020. 
Mr K called Prudential immediately after receiving the letter and told them that his direct 
debit had failed earlier in the summer and that hed made payments directly to their bank 
account. When Prudential werent able to check the payments straight away, Mr K raised a 
complaint. When it took Prudential longer than Mr K expected to check the payments and 
respond to his complaint he came to our service.
In November 2020, Prudential replied to Mr K. They said theyd received the payments for 
May to September and apologised for incorrectly telling Mr K they hadnt received his 
payments. They said Mr K needed to make a further payment to cover the premiums up to 
November, and that hed need to complete a declaration of health form and updated direct 
debit instructions so that the life assurance could be reinstated.
At this stage, Prudential paid £400 to compensate Mr K and Mrs P for the distress and 
inconvenience theyd caused. But the problems continued. It took Prudential some time to 
send Mr K a declaration of health form that he could complete and return. And they 
continued to have difficulty keeping track of the payments Mr K was making. In 
January 2021, they sent him another letter saying the policy would be cancelled, and 
additional letters chasing missing payments, even though Mr K was making payments.
So Mr K made further complaints. The issue was eventually resolved in February 2021, 
when Mr K and Mrs Ps policy was reinstated and a new direct debit was set up and 
operating correctly. By this point, Prudential had paid Mr K and Mrs P £900 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by their poor service.
Our investigators view was that Prudential had done enough to compensate Mr K and Mrs P 
 so she said they didnt need to do anything further. But Mr K doesnt think £900 is enough 
to recognise what theyve been through. He noted that its only £450 each. He says he and 
his wife dont have any other life cover and have been worried what would happen to their 
children if one of them were to die. This has been exacerbated by the pandemic. Mr Ks 
asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At this stage, it seems the debate is principally about the amount of compensation, so 
although Ill touch on the points of complaint, Ill focus on the impact Prudentials actions 
have had. Although I appreciate itll be a disappointment for Mr K and Mrs P, Ive decided 
Prudential have offered enough compensation and wont be asking them to do any more. 
I can see that Mr K and Mrs P had trouble with their direct debits on many occasions. But I 
think the letters Prudential sent them in June and July were clear. These told Mr K and 
Mrs P that their life assurance would be cancelled if they hadnt paid by 9 September, and 
they explained that they could pay either by cheque, or by providing new direct debit 
instructions. The letters didnt give the option of paying directly into Prudentials bank 
account, which is what Mr K chose to do.
These payments are inherently more difficult to track and assign to a policy  so I can 
understand why Prudential didnt realise Mr K and Mrs P had made up the shortfall, and 
therefore why they sent the letter telling the policyholders that their cover had been 
cancelled.
Its at this stage that things started to go wrong though, with it taking almost six months to 
get cover reinstated. 
I appreciate Mr Ks frustration at the number of phone calls he made, and at the number of 
payments hed made which Prudential didnt seem to be able to find. And I can understand 
his and his wifes anxiety over what would happen if one of them were to die before the 
policy was reinstated. Given the circumstances of the pandemic, I appreciate this was a 
greater worry than it might otherwise have been. I realise this wouldnt have been helped by 
the letters Mr K received in January 2021 which further knocked his confidence in 
Prudentials ability to get things sorted.
I also accept Mr Ks statement that £900 equates to £450 for each of him and his wife. Whilst 
I can understand there was a significant amount of worry, and a moderate amount of 
inconvenience, I havent seen any suggestion of any wider impact this has had on Mr K or 
Mrs P. So Im satisfied this amount is enough to compensate them for what theyve been 
through. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr K and Mrs Ps complaint. Although there have been some 
shortcomings in The Prudential Life Assurance Company Limiteds service, Im satisfied 
theyve done enough to put things right for Mr K and Mrs P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman