DRN-2702097
The complaint
Mr M says that he only took out a personal loan with National Westminster Bank Plc in 
December 2019 because he was told hed be able to then remortgage to NatWest and 
consolidate that into the new mortgage when his preferential rate with his existing lender 
came to an end in March 2020.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision earlier this month, the findings of which said:
Ive considered everything Mr M has said about the conversations he had in December 
2019, and Ive also considered what NatWest has said about that. Mr M says he told the 
branch staff member about the Help to Buy equity loan, whereas the staff member said that 
Mr M hadnt mentioned anything about it.
As our investigator explained, where we have a dispute about what was said, as Mr M is 
the one bringing the complaint against NatWest, his version needs to be more likely than 
NatWests version; not just as likely. Having considered what both sides have said I dont 
find Mr Ms version to be any more than just as likely.
There are many reasons why a mortgage application might fail and no guarantees can ever 
be given that an application will be successful. Even if it wasnt for the equity loan issue, it 
is possible NatWest still wouldnt have been able to proceed (just as it wasnt able to when 
it looked at also repaying the equity loan) due to the change in Mr Ms employment status 
and reduction in income. I cant say either way if that would have had an impact, I just use 
it as an example of why a mortgage application can never be guaranteed to be successful, 
and so why I cant uphold this complaint.
Despite this Ive thought about what other options Mr M might have had, and what he might 
have done differently if hed been aware in December 2019 that he wouldnt be able to 
remortgage to NatWest to consolidate the loan he was taking out. Mr M had an existing 
NatWest loan of around £9,000, an overdraft of around £1,500 and hes said he had a tax 
bill of around £10,000, plus a VAT bill. He said he needed to pay his 2018/19 tax to HMRC 
by the end of May 2020 which was £12,555, and he had a VAT bill of around £3,500. 
Mr M told us:
I am now paying the [existing lenders] variable rate at an extra cost of £177 a month I 
have to pay back my NEW existing loan of £421 TOTAL £598 extra a month on top of all 
bills because of the incorrect advice given to me by Natwest.
But Mr M already had a NatWest loan - that was consolidated into this new loan - for which 
he was paying £280 a month. That existing loan would have continued if this new loan 
hadnt been agreed so he would have been paying out that £280 a month instead of the 
£420 a month for the new loan  a difference of £140 a month.
When asked why he didnt take a new rate with his existing lender Mr M said it was 
because NatWests rates were better. But hed said that his existing rate ran until the end 
of March 2020, so it seems his decision to leave his mortgage on his existing lenders 
standard variable rate is not NatWests fault as that happened after hed been told by 
NatWest that he couldnt remortgage.
Mr M was told in January 2020 that he couldnt have the mortgage without repaying the 
equity loan, and then he was told that he couldnt remortgage to also repay the equity loan 
due to the loan to value and his change in employment status and income. Mr M could then 
have arranged a new preferential interest rate with his existing lender rather than reverting 
to the standard variable rate, so I cant hold NatWest liable for that increase in cost. 
So rather than there being a £598 a month increase in Mr Ms outgoings, in fact his 
outgoings only increased by about £140 a month (as I cant take the increased mortgage 
payments with his existing lender into account). For that extra £140 a month Mr M received 
£15,000 to pay towards his HMRC bill that was due. That doesnt seem at all an 
unreasonable monthly outgoing for that gain.
Our investigator asked Mr M what he would have done differently as it seems he had few 
options other than to take a personal loan at that time as he needed a large lump sum to 
pay his tax bill. Despite being asked on a few occasions Mr M hasnt answered that. He 
mentioned he would have gone to Halifax, but as far as Im aware Halifax also wouldnt 
have allowed extra borrowing on a mortgage where there was an outstanding Help to Buy 
equity loan and at that time he was tied into an existing rate so would be subject to an early
repayment charge if he wanted to come out of the mortgage early. It may be Mr M would 
instead have taken a personal loan with Halifax, but I cant see that would have put him in 
much of a different position as that would have cost him a fairly similar amount each 
month.
Mr M told our investigator that hed be in a better financial position now if he hadnt taken 
the loan, but hes not provided any explanation of where he would have found the £15,000 
he borrowed back then to pay the tax bill that was imminent. In a call with our investigator 
Mr M said the £15,000 didnt even clear the full amount, just most of it. He also said that he 
now owes a further £12,000 and HMRC has threatened to take the property. But if he 
hadnt taken the loan back in December 2019 then hed owe HMRC even more as the 
£140 a month extra he would have had in his pocket each month if hed not taken this loan 
in December 2019 wouldnt have gone far towards paying such a large tax bill that was due 
imminently.
Having considered everything Im not persuaded that it is more likely than not that Mr M 
was told he would definitely be able to get a mortgage to repay the personal loan even 
though he had an outstanding Help to Buy equity loan. Ive also not been shown that Mr M 
had any other real options open to him in December 2019 other than to take a personal 
loan to pay his tax bills.
For all the reasons given, whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for the position Mr M has 
found himself in, I cant uphold this complaint.
NatWest didnt make any further submissions. Mr M responded, but didnt raise any new 
points. He said that whilst we said NatWest lied and he was right, weve let NatWest off. He 
asked what his escalation options are.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having considered Mr Ms response to my provisional decision and the 
full file afresh I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr Ms strength of feeling, for all the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision I simply cant uphold his complaint. I should make it clear here that I 
didnt  and dont  find that NatWest lied and Mr M was right, I said that on balance Mr Ms 
version of what happened was no more than just as likely as NatWests version.
This final decision is the last stage of our process, and if Mr M doesnt accept my 
conclusions then neither he nor NatWest will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any 
time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, Mr Ms right to take legal action against 
NatWest over the subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our 
consideration of it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman