DRN-3551490
The complaint
Ms S complains about the delays Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More 
Th>n (RSA) have caused when she made a claim on her home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In December 2020, Ms S made a claim for a water leak that damaged her kitchen.
Ms S says the claim has caused significant distress and inconvenience and she has 
been prevented from selling her home.
In RSAs final response issued 15 December 2021, it acknowledged that Ms S had 
experienced avoidable delays. It also said this had been exacerbated by poor 
communication issues between its contractor and trades and the standard of work 
that had been carried out. It awarded Ms S £300 compensation.
Ms S didnt feel the compensation was adequate due to the amount of chasing she 
had to do to try and get issues resolved, and the amount of time this took. Ms S 
wants the works finished and compensation for the inconvenience.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt feel the amount of compensation 
RSA offered was adequate for the delays, distress and inconvenience caused. She 
recommended that RSA provided a further £150 compensation (£450 in total) and 
progress the claim to ensure all necessary works are completed and offer settlement 
options to Ms S to finalise the claim.
RSA agreed but Ms S didnt feel that £450 compensation really covered the 
inconvenience, hassle, and frustration that her and her family had to suffer over the 
last 18 months. So, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the complaint has progressed since Ms S brought her complaint to our service. 
But this decision can only consider the events up to when the final response was issued by 
RSA on 15 December 2021. If Ms S is unhappy with events after this date, she will in the 
first instance need to make a complaint to RSA and if she remains unhappy with its 
response, she can ask this service to look into matters.
I can see Ms S suffered from RSAs poor workmanship when the kitchen doors were fitted to 
the new carcasses. Ms S had to chase several contractors that have been appointed by 
RSA to try and get the issues resolved. This was no doubt frustrating and inconvenient to
Ms S. 
It isnt disputed that there have been delays in the handling of Ms Ss claim. But with any 
claim of this type there will be a degree of inconvenience so what I need to ascertain is the 
impact of the avoidable delays that RSA have caused. Im persuaded that the lack of 
communication between all the contractors has led to the claim stalling and approximately 
three months of delay which couldve been avoided. 
From what Ive seen the kitchen was useable for most of the claim however the dining room 
couldnt be used for the duration as it was being used to store the kitchen contents. 
Ms S has said this was inconvenient as she and other members of her family were working 
from home and not having a dining room made this more difficult. 
Ms S has also said she had to put plans to sell the property on hold whilst this claim 
continues. I can understand Ms Ss frustration especially as the claim is still ongoing. I 
therefore direct RSA to progress the claim to ensure all necessary works are complete and 
offer settlement options to Ms S to finalise the claim. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied RSA needs to compensate Ms S for the delays 
and poor communication. While the claim has progressed to some extent, there are still 
some issues outstanding, but I can see the claim has been handled poorly and quality of 
some of its previous works has been questionable. Taking into account these delays on 
Ms S Im satisfied RSA needs to pay her a further £150 in compensation a total of £450.
Putting things right
I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More Th>n to do the following:
Pay Ms S an additional £150 compensation in total £450.
Progress the claim to ensure all necessary works are complete and offer settlement 
options to Ms S to finalise the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman