DRN-4091282
The complaint
Mr G has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted unfairly by continuing to apply 
charges to his account when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr G held and account with HSBC with an overdraft facility. 
Mr G complained to HSBC that it acted unfairly by continuing to charge interest on his 
overdraft when it was clearly unaffordable. Mr G is also unhappy about HSBCs charging 
structure as this has resulted in the cost of his overdraft increasing. 
HSBC said all charges were applied to Mr Gs account correctly in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.  
Mr G was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
HSBC has not consented to us looking at Mr Gs complaint prior to August 2016. So on this 
basis this service has only looked at the merits of Mr Gs complaint from August 2016.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that HSBC acted unfairly when 
it continued charging overdraft fees from 1 August 2016 to 31 August 2018 as Mr Gs 
statements showed that Mr Gs use of his overdraft was unsustainable.  
Our adjudicator thought HSBC should put things right by:
Re-working Mr Gs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 1 August 2016 to 31 August 2018 are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr G to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Gs credit file, it 
should backdate this to August 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr G, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Gs credit file. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
HSBC agreed to settle Mr Gs complaint in-line with our adjudicators recommendations. 
Mr G doesnt wish to accept this  he believes interest should be paid on the amount of the 
charges HSBC refunded and wants interest frozen from when he raised his complaint, and 
has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what HSBC has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if 
those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. 
I understand that Mr G would like HSBC to pay interest on the amount of charges HSBC has 
offered to refund, but to do this would be to penalise HSBC for its mistake and that is not our 
approach. So I will not be asking HSBC to do this.
In this case after reviewing Mr Gs statements, Im in agreement with our adjudicator that 
from August 2016 to August 2018 when his overdraft was paid off it was evident Mr G wasnt 
managing his overdraft in a sustainable way. Mr G wasnt able to see or maintain a credit 
balance for a reasonable period of time and his statements show numerous transactions for 
gambling and payday loans. If HSBC had carried out a proper review of his statements I 
think it ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr G would be able to sustainably repay the 
overdraft within a reasonable period of time.
HSBC has agreed to settle Mr G complaint in-line with this finding and Mr G will be 
refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by the overdraft facility. I understand 
Mr G would like a refund of interest and charges since he raised his complaint in August 
2022. But having looked at Mr Gs statements I cant say there have been signs of financial 
difficulty since he paid off his overdraft in September 2018. 
Indeed, Mr G was barely using his overdraft until February 2022 when he then withdrew 
funds to the top of his limit and then besides paying the overdraft charges, appears to have 
stopped using the account. I accept Mr G may well be unhappy about HSBCs charging 
structure for use of the overdraft, but HSBC has provided an overdraft facility for Mr G who 
has used and benefitted from the funds and it is entitled to charge for this. Ultimately, how 
much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to 
get involved with.
So bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what HSBC has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr G to decide whether he now 
wishes to accept HSBCs offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman