DRN-2336121
The complaint
Mr J complains that the vehicle he acquired on a hire purchase agreement financed by BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial Services wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
 
What happened
Mr J tells us that he acquired the vehicle in July 2019 from a dealer Ill call L. But within two 
months or so he explains that the multimedia interface (MMI) system had broken down and 
has remained unrepaired ever since. He says hes not been able to get help from either L or 
Alphera. And that he now hasnt driven the vehicle for some months.
Alphera told us that it hadnt upheld Mr Js complaint as hed not provided enough 
information to show that the vehicle hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
vehicle had been around nine years old with about 114,500 miles recorded when supplied to 
Mr J. And that it wasnt unreasonable to expect complex electrical parts to start to fail after 
nine years.
Mr J didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr J would be disappointed that the vehicle experienced problems within a 
short time of his acquiring it. Unfortunately, with used, high mileage vehicles the chances of 
things going wrong are that much greater than with newer models.
Mr Js hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. Alphera supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA states that in order to conform to contract 
goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being 
what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects 
of price, previous use and durability.
There was no independent inspection of the vehicle at the time Mr J has informed us that 
hed first experienced problems with the MMI. So Ive no information about what the cause of 
any issue might be.
Where information is incomplete and unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr J made some posts on social media from September 2019 onwards seeking advice about 
the problem with the MMI. And hes later provided diagnostics which show fault codes and 
videos in which the MMI seemingly isnt functioning. On a balance of probabilities it seems 
likely that the vehicle does have a fault of the type described by Mr J. And that it occurred in 
September 2019.
But of itself that isnt sufficient for me to say that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. Ill explain why.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time.
But that doesnt mean that every fault  even if present at the point of supply - results in the 
vehicle not being of satisfactory quality and so not conforming to contract. Components cant 
be expected to last forever. And I think most reasonable consumers would probably expect  
whilst hoping otherwise - that electrical components on a nearly nine year old vehicle would 
require replacing sooner rather than later. Sadly, that seems to be the case here.
Ive also to take into account the use that Mr J has been able to obtain from the vehicle, 
which passed an MOT test in July 2020. Although there was an initial failure, this was due to 
a defective wiper blade.
The odometer reading on the pass date was recorded as 122,033 miles. This shows that the 
vehicles covered around 7,500 miles since acquired by Mr J a year or so previously. And 
presumably all the safety features which the MOT check assesses were satisfactory. The 
mileage covered is certainly within the average range which might reasonably be expected 
from a vehicle in a 12 month period. 
Apart from the fault with the MMI, the vehicle was otherwise mechanically sound and fit for 
purpose. Although Mr J has said he hasnt driven the vehicle this past few months, thats 
rather different from saying that the vehicle is not able to be driven. 
In summary, whilst I empathise with Mr J and the disappointment hes experienced, I dont 
think theres enough information to say that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. The type of fault which hes described seems most likely to be the result of age- 
related wear and tear which is to be expected with a vehicle of this age and history.
Accordingly, I dont find that Alphera need do anything else. And Im not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman