DRN-2179215
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F have travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
In September 2019, Mr and Mrs F booked a skiing holiday to Italy and they were due to 
travel on 14 March 2020. Their accommodation; flights; transfers and skiing passes were 
booked as a package holiday through a travel provider who Ill call E. They paid £2706.20 for 
their trip.
On 9 March 2020, Italy went into a national lockdown as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
And on 10 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel to Italy. E got in touch with Mr and Mrs F to let them know that their trip had 
had to be cancelled. It refunded them £1286.62, but it said theyd need to recover the 
remainder of their holiday costs from their insurer. So Mr and Mrs F made a claim on their 
travel insurance policy.
Aviva turned down the claim. It said that under the Package Travel and Linked Travel 
Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR), E was liable to pay Mr and Mrs F a full refund of 
their cancellation costs. It said the policy only covered costs which couldnt be recovered 
from elsewhere. But as it considered that E was liable for refunding their costs, it concluded 
the claim wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy with Avivas decision. They said theyd paid for the holiday by 
bank transfer, so they couldnt make a section 75 or chargeback claim. They asked us to 
look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld. She felt the 
circumstances of their claim fell within the scope of the policy cover. But she didnt think 
Aviva needed to pay the claim. Thats because she was satisfied that Mr and Mrs F had 
booked a package holiday through E and that therefore, under the PTR, E was responsible 
for refunding the full cost of their holiday. So she felt it was fair for Aviva to turn down Mr and 
Mrs Fs claim.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed. They felt theyd exhausted the complaints process through E and 
that it had assured them the partial refund itd paid was all that it could get back. They 
considered that Es booking terms and conditions took precedence over the PTR.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Aviva has treated Mr and Mrs F fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered the policy terms; the 
relevant law; the evidence both parties have provided and the circumstances of the claim to 
decide whether Aviva treated Mr and Mrs F fairly.
What does the policy say?
Ive first considered the what the cancellation section of the policy covers. It says:
We will pay for costs that each insured person has paid, and cannot get back, or which have 
to be legally paid for their own travel and accommodation (including excursions and unused 
kennel, cattery or professional pet sitter fees up to a maximum of £250) if, after you added 
the Travel Pack to your Qualifying Account or booked your trip, (whichever is later), you 
unavoidably have to cancel your trip for one of the reasons below:
Foreign and Commonwealth Office advisory notice is in place advising against all 
travel or all but essential travel to your destination is still in place.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Fs trip was cancelled as the result of both the Italian 
national lockdown and the change in FCO guidance on 10 March 2020. So I think the 
circumstances would fall for consideration within this section of the policy.
But I also think the policy makes it clear that Aviva will only pay for costs that a policyholder 
cant get back from elsewhere. So Ive thought about whether it was fair for Aviva to 
conclude that Mr and Mrs F should be able to recover their costs from E.
Was the trip a package holiday and should the PTR apply?
Generally, a package holiday would be considered to be holiday contracts that include two or 
more travel services, which are combined for the purposes of the same trip. The travel 
provider is liable for the performance of these services. Ive looked closely at the booking 
invoice E provided to Mr and Mrs F. I can see that they booked their flights; accommodation; 
transfers and ski passes through E. So I think it was fair for Aviva to treat the trip as a 
package holiday.
The PTR provide protection for consumers who buy package holidays. Effectively, they say 
that the travel provider is responsible for providing a full refund for holidays which cant be 
provided. 
In this case, E has only offered Mr and Mrs F a partial refund of their trip costs. Its 
cancellation letter stated that it had reduced your exposure to financial loss, as best we can 
and it said that your insurance provider must now take up the slack. 
But it doesnt seem that E has factored in PTR 13 (3) which is an implied term in every 
package holiday contract. This says that travel providers should provide a full refund if they 
terminate a contract. So Avivas concluded that E has a legal obligation to provide Mr and 
Mrs F with a full refund rather than a partial one. The Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) also wrote an open letter to package holiday providers reminding them of this 
obligation in light of the pandemic.
We asked Mr and Mrs F if they could explain why E wasnt prepared to refund their full trip 
costs, given the PTR suggests it has a legal obligation to do so and given the CMAs open 
letter.  Mr and Mrs F say E has relied on a force majeure clause in its booking terms and 
conditions to limit its liability to them. They say they understand this takes legal precedence 
over the PTR. 
Ive thought carefully about everything both parties have provided here. But I simply dont 
think Ive seen a persuasive argument, either from Mr and Mrs F, or from E, why liability for 
paying the balance of the claim should fall on Aviva, given the legal obligations it appears E 
has. I simply dont think, based on the evidence Ive seen, that Mr and Mrs F have taken 
reasonable steps to recover their money from their provider. 
The evidence Im seen suggests it is more likely that E has taken the decision to only refund 
the money it has been able to recover from third parties. But Ive not seen a persuasive 
explanation as to why the PTR dont apply to Mr and Mrs Fs booking, particularly given that 
E cancelled the package holiday. Bearing in mind the policy terms and conditions, and all of 
the above information, Im satisfied Aviva reasonably declined the claim. 
Ive also taken into account whats fair and reasonable to both parties in the circumstances. 
And on the evidence to hand, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct 
Aviva to settle this claim in the specific circumstances of this case for the same reasons Ive 
outlined above.  
If Mr and Mrs F are able to obtain further, new evidence in support of their claim, its open to 
them to provide it to Aviva for it to consider. If they remain unhappy with the outcome of any 
new assessment of their claim, they may be able to bring a complaint to us about that issue 
only.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman