DRN-4275678
The complaint
Mr S complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax sent him an offer for a balance or 
money transfer on his credit card, but the offer wasnt available when he went to apply. 
What happened
Mr S received a letter from Halifax setting out available rates for balance and money 
transfers  and the letter said these offers were available until 31 January 2023. But when 
Mr S went to his mobile banking app before this deadline, the offers werent available. 
In response, Halifax said they regularly review eligibility for offers and use internal and 
external information to do so. They said they couldnt specifically tell Mr S why his offers had 
been removed but they did say he was not eligible at that time for the balance or money 
transfer offers. They apologised the inconvenience. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this response. So referred his complaint to our service.
 
An Investigator considered Mr S concerns. He said, in summary, the offer was just that, an 
offer  and there were no guarantees Mr S would get the balance or money transfer if he 
applied. And, he was satisfied the offer had been removed in line with Halifaxs lending 
criteria and so they werent obliged to tell Mr S specifically why they had done this. 
Mr S didnt accept the Investigators findings. He said the letter Halifax had sent was 
misleading because the offer was never made available to him in the app. 
As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision. Those findings are set out below and form part of this decision. 
Provisional Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided a copy of the letter he received from Halifax detailing the offers. I can see 
that it says:
Transfer requests are subject to further eligibility and security checks at the point of request, 
but these will not affect your credit score. These rates only apply to new transfers made by 
31 January 2023, on credit card number ending
So I agree with our Investigator that there was no guarantee Mr S would have received 
these rates. 
The letter does say that further checks will be made at the point of requests and that rates 
applied to transfers made by 31 January 2023, so I can see why Mr S wasnt expecting them 
to have been withdrawn before this date. 
Halifax has explained they regularly review customers eligibility and offers. As a lender, they 
have an obligation to do so responsibly so I dont think Halifax has made a mistake by 
keeping Mr S circumstances under review. Halifax has explained the offer was withdrawn 
because Mr S no longer met their criteria to be eligible for the offers. Our rules allow us to 
accept evidence in confidence, so I cant share precisely why Mr S was no longer eligible. 
But Im satisfied Halifax were entitled to decide whether Mr S was or wasnt eligible for the 
offer in line with their lending criteria.
Halifaxs letter setting out the offer was dated January 2023  but Halifaxs records show it 
was sent out on 12 December 2022. Based on the information Halifax has provided, it 
seems Mr S eligibility changed sometime in December 2022. Despite repeated requests, 
Halifax havent provided evidence of precisely when Mr S eligibility changed. So as I dont 
know when this happened and because Halifax have sent post-dated correspondence to Mr 
S, I cant be satisfied Halifax havent made a mistake by inviting Mr S to apply for offers he 
wasnt eligible for at the time the letter was sent. The letter being dated January 2023 also 
gives the impression the offer will be open throughout January, even though it was 
seemingly removed some time in December 2022. 
So Ive found Halifax raised Mr S expectations by inviting him to apply, which he intended to 
do by logging into the app. And I think thats caused some distress and inconvenience. So I 
intend to require Halifax to pay Mr S £100 in recognition of this. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Halifax said they accepted my provisional findings.
 
Mr S said he accepted my decision, but had further comments which Ive summarised as 
follows:
He still felt the letter was misleading, and not in line with Halifaxs obligations under 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 3.3, having been dated January 2023 when 
the offer had seemingly been withdrawn prior to that. 
He was unhappy Halifax withdrew the offer without letting him know. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S remains unhappy that Halifax withdrew the offer without telling him and felt the letter 
was misleading. But, as Ive already found Halifax shouldnt have invited him to apply for 
something I think he likely wasnt eligible for, I dont think this makes a difference to the 
overall outcome of his complaint. 
Overall, Im still satisfied Halifax made a mistake by sending the offer letter to Mr S when it 
seems likely he wasnt eligible for the offers. Im also still satisfied Halifax should pay Mr S 
£100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr S complaint. 
To put things right, I require Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Mr S £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman