DRN-2138000
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK plc didnt remove him from a joint account he held with 
his ex-partner and he is now being chased for an outstanding debt on that account. 
What happened
In May 2015, Mr S says he attended a branch of Santander with his ex-partner and asked to 
be removed from the joint account he held with her. He says he filled in a form and he 
handed over his debit card and it was destroyed.  
In early 2019, Mr S was notified by a debt collections agency that there was an outstanding 
overdraft balance on the Santander account which he was jointly and severally liable for. 
Mr S contacted Santander - who explained it had no record of him being removed from the 
account so it would continue to hold him liable for the debt. Unhappy with Santanders 
response, Mr S brought his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators upheld Mr S complaint. They thought his version of events had 
been consistent and were plausible. Hed also not used the account since May 2015, so they 
thought this made it more likely he had asked to be removed from the account. 
Santander disagreed and said there was no evidence that Mr S visited a branch in May 2015 
or that his card had been destroyed. So overall it said the evidence suggested that Mr S 
hadnt asked to be removed from the account. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for an ombudsmans 
review. I issued my provisional decision in June 2020 explaining that I was intending to 
uphold Mr S complaint.
Mr S confirmed hed received the provisional decision and he didnt think he had anything 
further he could add. 
Santander responded and disagreed with the provisional decision. It said if Mr S had asked 
to be removed from the account, there would have been certain actions which would have 
left electronic footprints on the account  such as a log by a cashier accessing the account. 
Or Mr S would have had to identify himself by using his CHIP and PIN - among other things. 
Santander says there is no evidence of these footprints on Mr S account. As the branch 
had undergone a refurbishment around 2015 there was no copies of paperwork, but 
Santander explained that it had checked other customers accounts and activities such as 
this had been recorded during May 2015, so it didnt think an error had taken place due to 
the refurbishment. 
Santander did  however  offer to come to an agreement with Mr S if he agreed to pay 50% 
of the outstanding balance. Our investigator put this offer to Mr S, but he had declined to 
accept it. 
So, the case was sent back to me to consider all the points again. I issued a second 
provisional decision in August 2020. Heres what I said:
Im currently thinking  in light of the additional information Santander has provided  of now 
not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, this has been a difficult decision to reach. I want to make it clear that I dont doubt   
Mr S thought hed done all he needed to do to remove himself from the account. But I dont 
have enough evidence to fairly say that Santander has made an error in not removing Mr S 
from the account. 
Santander has provided evidence to show that other customers accounts  from the same 
branch - were accessed around the time Mr S asked to be removed from the joint account. 
So, it doesnt look like there has been any system error that has meant Mr S request wasnt 
processed by Santander. And in my experience, the absence of the footprints on the 
account, means its most likely the accounts and process needed to take place didnt. On 
balance its more likely that not all the necessary steps were taken by both account holders 
to remove Mr S from the account. Or Mr S is mis-remembering attending the branch to be 
removed. 
The terms and conditions of the joint account means Mr S and his ex-partner are joint and 
severally liable for any debt accrued. I can see from the bank statements that the debt has 
been built up after Mr S stopped paying into the account. So, I understand and  do 
sympathise  with Mr S when he says the debt isnt his. But as I cant say Santander has 
made a mistake here, the terms of the account stand, and Santander can pursue Mr S for 
the outstanding debt. 
However, Santander has agreed to reach an agreement with Mr S if he agrees to pay 50% 
of the debt. Given the circumstances, I think this is the most reasonable outcome for this 
case. 
I know Mr S is going to be disappointed with this outcome. Hes put time and effort into this 
complaint but as Ive explained above, I cant say Santander has made an error here. 
Santander responded and explained how much Mr S would need to pay if he agreed to pay 
half of the amount due. It also explained once the payment has been made it would consider 
removing Mr Ss name from the account. It also confirmed that Mr Ss credit file was showing 
as partially settled.
Mr S responded to say he wasnt happy about paying the debt  as it wasnt something 
caused by his actions. He felt Santander didnt manage the account properly allowing the 
debt to be incurred.  Mr S says his credit report still showed the account was in default. 
Lastly he said there was nothing else he could provide to show he had asked to be removed 
back in 2015. 
So, the case is back to me to consider all the points again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, as there hasnt been any new information provided since my August 
provisional decision, my decision remains the same  I dont uphold the complaint. 
As I explained in my previous findings, I dont have enough evidence to fairly say that 
Santander has made an error in not removing Mr S from the account. I do sympathise with Mr S that he is now responsible for a debt that he didnt accrue. But without any new 
information there isnt anything more to be considered. 
Santander has offered for Mr S to repay half the amount owed and to update his credit file to 
show as partially settled. I still think this is the most reasonable outcome and I dont think 
Santander needs to do anything further. 
I understand there is some confusion as to what the status of the account is on Mr Ss credit 
report. This might be due to the lag that happens between a change being made on a credit 
report and it being visible. If Mr S choses to accept the offer made by Santander it should 
ensure his credit file is showing as partially settled and confirm this in writing.
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by my decision  and I appreciate hes put a lot of time 
and effort into bringing this complaint. It is now up to Mr S to decide whether he wants to 
accept Santanders offer or not.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman