DRN-3172262
The complaint
Mr R complains that he reached an agreement with Lloyds Bank PLC to clear a debt, but it
didnt honour that agreement, and instead it defaulted his account. Mr R says hes been
complaining about this for some years, and Lloyds only just accepted it made a mistake.
  
What happened
In 2017, Mr R decided to switch banks, away from Lloyds. He had an existing overdraft with
Lloyds, of around £4,000 which he was using. He thought that he would be offered the same
lending by his new bank. But he wasnt. Mr R said he tried to cancel the switch, but Lloyds
told him he was too late to do so.
Mr R said he spoke to Lloyds, and agreed a payment plan with it. He said he was going to
pay £1,000 upfront, then £250 per month until the debt was cleared.
Mr R said he made payments to his old account, but the money just bounced back into his
new account. He tried several times to do this, but always with the same result. Mr R was
then told that no payment plan should have been agreed, and he had to pay the full amount.
Mr R said that Lloyds put a default on his credit file, and passed the debt to a collection
agency. Mr R hasnt paid this debt. He said hes been challenging this ever since.
Mr R wanted the default removed, and £200 per month in compensation for every month
since this problem happened, back in 2018.
Lloyds showed us that Mr R made an account switching request in September 2017. It sent
him a final demand for the outstanding balance that he owed for his overdraft, on 13
February 2018, and a pre-closure letter on 22 March 2018.
Lloyds debt collection notes then mention a payment arrangement to clear an outstanding
debt, with payment expected in April 2018. They also mention Mr R having attempted to
make a payment of £1,200 but the payment bounced back to his new account.
Mr R appears to have complained about this towards the end of 2018, because Lloyds wrote
to Mr R on12 December 2018, responding to a complaint. Lloyds said then that it had no
record of entering into any payment agreement with him, or offering him any such
agreement. It wanted him to pay the £3,693.18 he owed, and confirmed its recoveries team
had closed his account on 7 June 2018. It had defaulted this debt at that time.
But more recently, Lloyds has changed its mind. It wrote to Mr R again on 11 November
2020, and Lloyds said that it could now see that Mr R had agreed a payment plan of £250
with it, for 10 months. But it said that it couldnt agree a payment plan with him at that time,
because his account was being switched out. So it said it had given him wrong information.
Lloyds said it was sorry it had done so, and it paid him £100 for this.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said Lloyds had given Mr R
poor advice. But he said that by the time Mr R asked to cancel the switch, it was too late to
do so, and Lloyds was within its rights to demand full payment of the overdraft. So he didnt
think Lloyds had to remove the default from Mr Rs credit file. But he did think Lloyds should
pay £100 more, in addition to the £100 it had already paid, to make up for the impact this
had on Mr R.
Mr R didnt want to accept that. He said that because of the time hed spent on this, the fact
that the bank called him a liar, and with everything that had happened, £200 wasnt fair
compensation. And he said hed not cashed the cheque for £100. But our investigator didnt
change his mind.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr R has told us he was left unexpectedly needing to repay an overdraft to Lloyds. I 
can see that Lloyds wrote to Mr R in February 2018 asking him to pay the 
outstanding balance on 13 February 2018. Lloyds has said it considers that this letter 
warns Mr R that his debt will be defaulted.
Lloyds then sent a pre-closure letter on 22 March 2018. It appears that it is this letter 
which actually warns Mr R of the possible impact on his credit file if he doesnt pay in 
full.
Mr R does appear to have responded to this letter, because Lloyds debt collection 
notes show it reached an arrangement with him to clear the debt, with payment 
expected in April 2018.
Those notes also mention Mr R having attempted to make a payment of £1,200 but 
the payment bounced back to his new account. As Mr Rs account had switched out, 
he wouldnt simply be able to use the old account details to clear his debt. Any 
payment made to that old account number at Lloyds would automatically be routed to 
his new account elsewhere. This is to make sure that things like Mr Rs salary reach 
his new account. But it can also make paying off a debt like this more difficult.
So it appears that Lloyds did tell Mr R he could have a payment plan. But it didnt tell 
him how to make sure that the payments he was making would reach it.
Lloyds then appears to have defaulted this debt and passed it to debt collectors. 
Without further reference to Mr R.
Mr R has been challenging this debt ever since, and Lloyds has shown us a letter it 
wrote to him saying that it had no record of any plan being set up on the account. 
Lloyds says this happened because of an IT problem which meant it couldnt see the 
previous notes.
I can understand that Mr R must have been intensely frustrated at this point, and I do 
think that Lloyds has provided him with poor service.
Lloyds has told us that it doesnt think it should have to remove the default now, 
because it thinks that a default is what should always have happened. It says that the 
mistake it made was in telling Mr R that he could ever have a plan, when it shouldnt have said that. And it also notes that Mr R didnt pay at the time, and he hasnt paid 
since.
I dont think thats right. I do understand that an overdraft is repayable on demand, 
under the terms of Mr Rs account with Lloyds. But I think that having made an 
arrangement to clear this debt, Lloyds ought to have honoured it at the time. I dont 
think its reasonable for Lloyds to have made such an arrangement and then simply 
defaulted the debt, without giving Mr R any further warning of this. And that is what 
appears to have happened.
So I think that Lloyds did the right thing when it agreed a payment arrangement with 
Mr R in April 2018. And I think it made a mistake when it didnt tell Mr R how to make 
sure his payments reached it. I think it made another mistake when it then defaulted 
his account, apparently without warning Mr R that it wasnt going to honour its 
agreement to accept instalments for his debt.
But I dont think that this mistake would mean that Lloyds has to pay £200 in 
compensation for every month which has passed since the mistake was made. Mr R 
said he expected a sizeable award, and he thought I should make a large award 
because he said that small compensation awards are not teaching the banks a 
lesson nor protecting other customers from the same treatment in the future.
Ive explained to Mr R that Im only looking at his case. Our service isnt a regulator, 
and we dont make awards to punish banks or to discourage future wrongdoing.
I can only look at the effect of this complaint on Mr R. And although I appreciate how
frustrating he has found this, I dont think it would be consistent with other awards 
Ive made, if I were to make an award of that scale.
I have explained this to Mr R, in correspondence since our investigator reached his 
view. And Ive also explained that Id like to try to put Mr R back in the position he 
would have been in, if Lloyds didnt make these mistakes.
If Lloyds hadnt made these mistakes, Mr R wouldnt have a default on his credit file. 
But he would also have had to pay back the money he owed.
It wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to ask Lloyds to simply erase this debt. I 
could ask it to remove the default now, but that would mean that Mr R would have to 
clear this debt.
I have also set this out for Mr R. Ive explained that I would not wish to remove an old 
default from his credit file, and instruct Lloyds to set up an arrangement to pay back 
the debt, if he isnt in a position to keep to that payment plan. Thats because the 
debt would then be likely to default again. And a more recent default has a much 
more severe impact on someones credit file than an older one.
Ive also explained to Mr R that I cant just assume that either he would like to clear 
this debt, or that he would be able to. So without a response from Mr R on this, I cant 
include any provision requiring Lloyds to remove this default from Mr Rs credit file in 
this decision. (And I should also note that, as this decision will provide a final 
resolution for this complaint, Mr R wouldnt be able to return to our service in future, 
to ask for this to be done.)
Mr R hasnt responded to my requests for information on whether he would like to, or 
indeed would be able to, reach an agreement now with Lloyds to repay this debt.So, because any resolution which removes the old default risks putting Mr R in a 
worse position than he is now, my provisional view is that I wont ask Lloyds to do 
that. Lloyds doesnt have to amend Mr Rs credit file now.
Although Im conscious that Mr R doesnt appear to wish to clear this debt now, I still 
think that Lloyds should pay Mr R more compensation than it has previously offered. 
This is a long-running problem, which Mr R has been trying to resolve for some time. 
And Mr R clearly feels greatly aggrieved that Lloyds hasnt believed that it did set up 
a payment arrangement with him, although it has now realised that he was right 
about that. So I think Lloyds must pay Mr R a total of £500 in compensation. If Lloyds 
can show Mr R has cashed its cheque for £100, then it can count that amount 
towards this total.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Lloyds replied, but Mr R didnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds said that it had already agreed that this complaint should be upheld. And it felt that 
my proposed compensation wasnt unreasonable, so it would accept my provisional 
decision. Lloyds said it had already sent Mr R a £100 cheque. If Mr R accepts my final 
decision, then Lloyds said it would send a further £400 if this first cheque has been cashed. 
If not, it would stop that cheque and send £500.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Mr R a total of £500 in compensation. 
Lloyds can count towards that amount any payment it has already made for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman