DRN-3788223
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that hes been charged Brewin Dolphin Limiteds new, higher fees, when he 
had told them he wanted to transfer his holdings elsewhere.
What happened
Mr F had an investment portfolio with Brewin Dolphin. At the start of December 2021, they 
wrote to him explaining that their fee structure was changing from early January 2022. They 
said if he wasnt happy with the changes he could close his account or transfer to another 
provider within 60 days.
Mr F says he contacted Brewin Dolphin to complain about the new charges straight away, 
and told them he intended to transfer his holdings somewhere else. By the end of December 
2021, Mr F hadnt yet requested a transfer, and was unfortunately taken seriously ill in 
hospital.
Mr F spoke to Brewin Dolphin in early January 2022. He explained hed been in poor health 
and so had been hindered from starting to transfer away from their service. He says he 
understood from the phone call that he wouldnt be charged the new fees.
Mr Fs portfolio began to be charged under the new fee schedule, and he complained. 
Brewin Dolphin didnt uphold the complaint, saying that theyd provided enough time for him 
to move his account, and that they were entitled to make the changes to their fees.
One of our investigators looked into things. He listened to the call between Mr F and Brewin 
Dolphin from the start of January 2022. He said he thought thered been a misunderstanding 
between Mr F and the Brewin Dolphin employee, but he didnt think Brewin Dolphin had 
offered to extend the grace period for Mr F to carry out a transfer.
The investigator thought Brewin Dolphin should have been more sympathetic to Mr Fs 
situation. He said they ought to have provided a short extension for Mr F to make 
arrangements for a transfer, as his intent had been clear and hed been incapacitated in 
hospital for some weeks. However the investigator noted that by October 2022 Mr F still 
hadnt transferred his account. So he thought that even if Brewin Dolphin had given Mr F an 
extra few weeks, it wouldnt have stopped him holding his account for long enough to mean 
it was fair for Brewin Dolphin to charge the new fees. Overall he thought the lack of care 
shown to Mr F added to the misunderstanding and distress Mr F had suffered during his 
interactions with Brewin Dolphin, and said the firm should pay him £150 to say sorry.
Brewin Dolphin accepted our investigators conclusions, but Mr F didnt. He maintained he 
hadnt been treated fairly and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Id like to start by saying I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr F and the 
situation he found himself in. I can see from his submissions that he was experiencing a very 
difficult time at the end of 2021.
Ive thought carefully about Brewin Dolphins actions here, giving weight to Mr Fs 
circumstances. With regard to the change in their fees, Im satisfied that was something 
Brewin Dolphin were entitled to do. Their terms provided for the firm to vary their charges, 
and I find that they did so in a fair and reasonable way. They explained the reasons for the 
change, and gave Mr F notice before the change came into place. They also allowed Mr F 
the option to leave Brewin Dolphin without cost if he didnt want to pay the fees. Overall, and 
mindful that in general its fair for a business to set the costs of its services as it sees fit in 
line with its commercial judgement, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Brewin 
Dolphin to make the changes they did.
I think Brewin Dolphin provided a reasonable amount of notice, and opportunity for Mr F to 
make alternative arrangements. Their letter outlining the changes was sent a month before 
the new fees came into effect. And they allowed longer still (60 days) for Mr F to move his 
holdings without suffering any exit penalties. Im mindful here that it can take time to find a 
new provider, and that Mr F had a large portfolio and therefore may understandably have 
wanted to choose carefully and ensure he went somewhere that could provide the service he 
required. But Im of the view that Brewin Dolphin had given him enough time to find a new 
provider and transfer his holdings before hed have to start paying the new fees.
My understanding is that Mr F hadnt yet done so when he fell ill towards the end of 
December 2021. I can understand why this made it difficult for him to make arrangements 
during the time he was in hospital, and Ive given weight to the fact he tried to contact Brewin 
Dolphin in early January 2022 to explain the situation.
Like our investigator, having listened to Mr Fs call with Brewin Dolphin Im not persuaded 
they gave him a clear agreement that he wouldnt start paying fees if he hadnt transferred 
his holdings to another provider within 60 days of their original letter. 
Overall, acknowledging the ill health Mr F suffered at the end of 2021, Im satisfied Brewin 
Dolphin provided him with a reasonable timeframe within which to request a transfer of his 
holdings to another provider, which all parties agree was his intent. I therefore dont think it 
would be fair to hold Brewin Dolphin responsible for any charges Mr F paid because he 
didnt request a transfer within that timeframe.
I would also note that I agree with our investigator that, even if Brewin Dolphin had provided 
a small extension to the grace period, on balance its unlikely that Mr F would have effected 
a transfer in time, as his eventual transfer away from Brewin Dolphin still hadnt completed 
some 10 months later.
Putting things right
Our investigator thought Brewin Dolphin should pay Mr F £150 for not showing more 
sympathy for the issues he was experiencing and offering some flexibility. I agree that this 
will have caused Mr F some distress, and that £150 is fair compensation for that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is that Brewin Dolphin Limited must pay Mr F £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman