DRN-1937016
 
The complaint
Mrs D complains that TSB Bank plc changed her account conditions that meant she no 
longer received interest.
What happened
Mrs D says she met TSB's eligibility requirements in order to receive interest on her account. 
She says TSB changed those requirements and didn't tell her which meant she no longer 
received the interest. Mrs D says that is unfair that she has lost out on the interest for over a 
year whilst maintaining the required account balance.
TSB says in order to receive interest Mrs D needed to pay into her account £500 a month 
and register for online banking and paperless correspondence. It says Mrs D opened the 
account in 2017 and didn't register for paperless communication and so has never received 
any interest. TSB says it asked Mrs D to do so but in March 2018 she told it she didn't wish 
to do so. It doesn't accept making a mistake and says Mrs D was entitled to cashback and 
that ended in 2018.
Mrs D brought her complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought TSB's account terms and conditions were clear and hadn't changed. But Mrs D 
hadn't complied with them and had not been paid interest from the account being opened. 
The investigator didn't think TSB had made a mistake and that it asked her in 2018 if she 
wished to receive paperless communication, but she said no.
Mrs D doesn't accept that view and says she didn't know she needed to register for 
paperless communication but accepts she didn't look at her account statements in detail.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that TSB has dealt fairly with this complaint and I don't uphold it.
I have looked at TSB's account terms and conditions which I'm satisfied Mrs D agreed to 
when the account was opened as she has signed them. Those terms and conditions on 
page one are, I think, clear that in order to receive interest Mrs D must register for Internet 
banking and register for paperless communication. I'm satisfied that it's up to Mrs D to 
comply with those conditions but I don't think she did. In those circumstances I can't fairly 
hold TSB responsible for that and I don't think TSB made a mistake or acted unfairly by not 
paying the interest.
I appreciate Mrs D says she didn't notice the lack of interest on her account statements. But 
I can't fairly hold TSB responsible for that and I think it's up to Mrs D to mange her account 
and ought to have noticed that for about two years she wasn't receiving any interest. I 
appreciate Mrs D says TSB changed its interest requirements without telling her. I don't think that was the case and having looked at Mrs D's account statements I'm satisfied she was not 
paid interest from the start, and she may be confusing the interest payment with the 
cashback which she was entitled to until it ended.
I have looked at TSB's records and can see that in March 2018 it asked Mrs D if she wished 
to opt for paperless communication which would have meant she was entitled to interest. But 
I can see that Mrs D replied and said she did not. In those circumstances I don't think 
TSB ought to have asked again or could reasonably have known if Mrs D didn't understand 
the account terms and conditions.
Overall I'm satisfied TSB hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly and that its account terms 
and conditions made clear to Mrs D the interest eligibility requirements. I'm satisfied it was 
up to Mrs D to make sure she complied with them and as she didn't then she was not 
entitled to interest. I don't think TSB has changed the terms and conditions for the reasons I 
have explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman