DRN-2677395
The complaint
Mr C on behalf of C is unhappy Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus 
(Cashplus) wont reimburse C for three transfers totalling £4,270 Mr C made from Cs 
business account, after he fell victim to a scam.
For ease, Ill only refer to Mr C going forward.
What happened
On 16 June 2020, Mr C says he had a missed call while he was at work. Mr C returned the 
call and says there was a recorded message from HMRC  which then took him through to a 
tax officer. This call was sadly a scam call and Mr C fell victim to a sophisticated HMRC 
impersonation scam. 
Mr C was led to believe that he owed money to HMRC and there was an outstanding 
warrant for his arrest. Mr C thought the call was genuine as he had previously been 
discussing paying his tax bill with his accountant. Mr C was led to believe that if he paid the 
outstanding amount it would avoid legal proceedings against him.
Mr C says there were a number of calls and over the course of the conversations the 
scammer talked Mr C through a government tax website and provided him with an account 
to make the payments into. Mr C says he was also contacted by someone purporting to be 
from his local police.
On 16 June 2020, Mr C set up a new payee and made a payment for £990 at 14:22. Mr C 
went on to make further payments on the same day of £1,200 at 14:40 and £2,080 at 16:13. 
So in total Mr C transferred £4,270.
Mr C has told us the scammers then advised him that he actually had to make the transfers 
as one payment/transfer and not three  and this was in order for him to receive a code that 
he could then use on the government website. Mr C was told to make another payment of 
£4,270 and the three earlier payments he made would be returned/transferred back to him.
As Mr C didnt have enough money in his account to make another transfer of £4,270  he 
borrowed money from his sister. Mr C then made the transfer of £4,270 to a different 
account, with the amount debiting Mr Cs account at 18:13.
Mr C says shortly after making the last transfer and after receiving a text from Cashplus 
about the transfer (asking whether it was Mr C who had made it) and having spoken with his 
sister who called him about what had happened, he realised something wasnt right and that 
it could be a scam. Mr C contacted Cashplus in a desperate attempt to stop the last transfer 
and the transfers from earlier in the day.
On the evening of the 16 June 2020, Mr C tried to contact Cashplus. But he wasnt able to 
reply to the text it had sent and couldnt get through to it via telephone - so he sent it an 
email asking for the payment to be stopped. Mr C then contacted Cashplus the following 
morning at 08:00. Mr C also reported the matter to HMRC, the police and Action Fraud.
Cashplus logged the fraud claim and contacted the receiving bank (the bank used by the 
scammer - for the first three transfers) to report the scam and to see if the funds could be 
recovered. Unfortunately Cashplus didnt receive a response from the receiving bank.
While Cashplus was investigating the fraud claim, it offered, as a gesture of goodwill, to 
refund Mr C for the last transfer (the fourth transfer) he made of £4,270. 
But Cashplus ultimately said that it considered Mr C was liable for the first three transfers. It 
said Mr C had authorised the payments by using One Time Passcodes (OTP) which had 
been sent to Mr C via text message.  
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. Broadly summarised, he considered 
while Mr C had authorised the transfers (albeit while being tricked); Cashplus had a duty to 
exercise reasonable skill and care, pay due regard to the interest of its customers and to 
follow good industry practice and take steps to keep the customers accounts safe.
In reaching his opinion our investigator thought the British Standards Institutes (BSI) 
Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of 
practice published in October 2017 was relevant. This was because the BSI Code of 
practice set out some key principles for businesses to work to in the detection of fraud and 
financial abuse.
Our investigator, when looking at the three transfers Mr C made, considered the first two 
transfers of £990 at 14:22 and £1,200 at 14:40 werent necessarily unusual or out of 
character. Mr C had made transfers of a similar amount and on occasion had made two 
transfers in one day. So he thought it wasnt unreasonable for these transfers not to flag as 
suspicious to Cashplus. But he thought the third transfer of £2,080 should have flagged, as it 
was a third payment made to the same account in fairly quick succession and was of an 
increasing amount  which was more than Mr C had transferred previously in the last 12 
months. Our investigator thought Cashplus should have done more and contacted Mr C 
about the third transfer and had it done so, it was more likely than not the scam wouldve 
unravelled, and the loss wouldve been prevented as Mr C wouldnt have gone ahead with 
the third transfer. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He recommended Cashplus refund 
Mr C for the third transfer of £2,080 and re-structure the business account as if the amount 
hadnt been debited on 16 June 2020, including amending any interest and charges. He also 
considered Cashplus should pay £200 as an additional amount of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the scam not being stopped sooner.
Mr C accepted the investigators findings, but Cashplus disagreed. 
Broadly summarised Cashplus considered:
the BSI Code of practice is for guidance and recommendation only and is not 
something that should be applied in this case.
the BSI Code of practice gained buy in only from certain businesses and other bodies 
/ institutions.
all the transfers in question did not trigger as suspicious.it had refunded the fourth transfer as a gesture of goodwill which equated to 50% of 
the total loss. 
that while it empathised with the situation Mr C went through, it had been more than 
fair in its review of his case and its decision to refund £4,270.
As Cashplus disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of the customers account.  That 
was the case in June 2020, and remains so now, and I have taken that into account when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:  
Regulated firms like Cashplus are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (Principle 6). 
Firms also have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish 
and maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable 
requirements and standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk 
that the firm might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has 
applied since 2001). And over the years, the FSA and its successor the FCA have 
published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor 
practice found when reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime.
Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing of terrorism requirements.  In June 2020 those requirements 
included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and procedures to 
identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through customer 
due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship 
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of 
the relationship).
In addition, as a matter of good industry practice in June 2020, I consider firms should in any 
event have taken proactive steps to: identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations (BBA) 
February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam 
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 
Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved in 
the development of); and,
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.
So, banks (and building societies) have had longstanding obligations to look out for their 
customers best interests and to be alert to instances of fraud. This means that there are 
circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a bank should, in my 
opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional checks, before 
processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
This is particularly so, in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated
fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the
average customer.
Cashplus argues that the BSI Code of practice isnt something that should be applied when 
looking at Mr Cs complaint. 
The British Standards Institutes Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of 
fraud or financial abuse  Code of practice (the BSI Code) gives recommendations to 
organisations for protecting customers from financial harm that might occur as a result of 
fraud or financial abuse. It also gives guidance on how to recognise customers who might be 
at risk, how to assess the potential risks to the individual and how to take the necessary 
actions to prevent or minimise financial harm. 
I recognise that Cashplus was not itself a signatory to the BSI Code. But I consider the BSI 
Code was in any event a reasonable articulation of what I consider to have already been 
good industry practice at the time Mr C made the transfers and that it sets out the kinds of 
practical steps businesses might fairly and reasonably take. I dont think the BSI Code 
suggested wholly new practices.
Taking the above into consideration, in this case, I need to decide whether Cashplus acted 
fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr C when he made the three transfers to a new 
payee, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Did Cashplus act fairly and reasonably in this case?
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Cashplus should have been 
on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
Ive thought carefully about whether the transfers Mr C made to the scammer were unusual 
or were out of character.Having looked at Mr Cs account usage in the 12 months prior to the scam it is clear to see 
that Mr C did make transfers regularly. The highest transfer prior to the scam was for 
£1,400 (in October 2019) and I can see that Mr C did, on occasion, make two transfers 
(over £500) within the same day. I can see this happened in September, October and 
November 2019. But I am mindful these werent transfers to the same payee made in quick 
succession, they were transfers made to different existing payees.
When Mr C made the first two transfers to the scammer, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for them to have not flagged as potentially suspicious to Cashplus so as to put it on alert 
that Mr C may have been at risk of financial harm. The amounts werent particularly large 
and were less than what Mr C had transferred previously.
But I am mindful that a common theme to a scam is that a scammer tries to gain as much 
money from unsuspecting victims as is possible. So where there are multiple payments or 
transfers made in quick succession, it is a possible indication to a bank or building society 
that their customer could be at risk. 
The first transfer Mr C made was for £990 and the second payment was for £1,200. Mr C 
then made a third payment to the same payee but for £2,080. So it was another payment to 
the same payee and more importantly the amount had also increased quite significantly. 
While I appreciate that Cashplus says none of the transfers triggered as suspicious, I think 
the third transfer made (while being mindful of the two previous transfers and factoring in 
the amounts being transferred were increasing each time) should have given Cashplus a 
concern that its customer may be at risk. With the third transfer, it made the total being paid 
to a new payee in a short space of time £4,270  which was a considerable amount of 
Mr Cs available balance at that time. 
So Im persuaded that when Mr C made the third transfer to the same payee in a short 
space of time his account activity was unusual and out of character. I think Cashplus ought 
fairly and reasonably, and as a matter of good practice, to have made enquiries about the 
purpose of the transfer before it processed it. 
I cant see Cashplus carried out any additional checks with Mr C at the time he attempted 
to make the third transfer of £2,080, other than to send him a OTP to authenticate / 
authorise the transfer. But Cashplus has said it has systems in place for identifying 
suspicious payments, and the transfers Mr C requested did not trigger a suspicion report. 
How Cashplus chooses to configure its fraud detection systems is for it to decide. But the 
question I need to answer here is: based on all the circumstances of this complaint, whether
Cashplus ought fairly and reasonably to have done more in Mr Cs case  whether its fraud 
prevention systems detected the payment or not. And taking all of the above into account 
and for the reasons Ive explained, I think Cashplus should reasonably have taken additional 
steps and made additional checks before processing the third transfer.
I accept that a bank does have a duty under the Payment Service Regulations not to delay 
payments or transfers unduly. But it is not an unfettered duty to execute  and reasonable 
checks are also required as part of the broad regulatory landscape to treat customers fairly 
and to safeguard against the risk of fraud or financial harm. I accept theres a limit as to what 
a bank can reasonably do; and I still expect consumers to take responsibility for their own 
decisions  and possibly even bear a reduction in compensation if there is clear evidence of 
blame on their own part (see below). But when plain triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic 
account activity exist, its not unreasonable to expect a banks fraud alerts to respond 
proportionately  and that might simply include, for example, a phone call or discreet 
conversation for transactions in branch to check that things are okay. Ive thought carefully about what wouldve happened had Cashplus made enquiries with 
Mr C (such as a phone call) before processing the transfer. 
There is obviously a balance to strike, and Im not suggesting that Mr C should have been
subjected to an interrogation by the call handler. But Cashplus ought fairly and reasonably to 
have satisfied itself that Mr C hadnt fallen victim to a scam, and Im persuaded it couldve 
done this by asking a few questions relating to the purpose of the payment. 
Of course I cant know for sure what wouldve happened, so Ive thought about what is more 
likely than not to have been the case.
Mr C wasnt given a cover story by the scammer, so I think had Cashplus contacted Mr C to 
enquire what the payment was for, as it was the third payment to the same payee in a short 
space of time, Mr C would have been honest as to why he was making the transfer  and 
that it was him paying his HMRC tax bill. 
Cashplus would, or should reasonably, have been aware that this scenario fits the 
characteristics of a common scam. Payment service providers such as Cashplus have actual 
or constructive knowledge of all the main scams, such as this (i.e. a HMRC impersonation 
scam). So it could have explained this type of scam to Mr C. If that had happened, I consider 
it likely that the spell of the scam would have been broken and that Mr C wouldnt have 
proceeded with the transfer.
In reaching my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have also 
considered whether Mr C should bear some responsibility for his loss. But it wasnt until after 
Mr C had made the fourth transfer and after his sister had contacted him raising her concern 
about the transfers that Mr C thought something might not be quite right. Up until that point, 
he was totally duped into considering the transfers were him legitimately paying his tax and 
to avoid legal proceedings. Mr C has explained the numbers and calls all appeared genuine 
(as a result of number spoofing), while also receiving a call from the police. All things 
considered Mr C was the victim of a sophisticated scam and I am satisfied he didnt foresee 
the risk of this sort of harm and was not partly to blame for what happened. So, on the 
particular facts of this individual case, I dont consider it fair to reduce compensation for 
some of the loss due to any blameworthy acts or omissions by Mr C. 
Overall, I consider when Mr C made the third transfer, his account activity was unusual and 
out of character. Cashplus could have done more to prevent the third transfer from 
happening. There was enough going on to suggest that Mr C may well have been in the 
process of being scammed and Cashplus ought fairly and reasonably to have picked up on 
this. Had it done so and had Cashplus asked some questions to challenge the purpose of 
the transfer, Im persuaded it is more likely than not the scam would have come to light, and 
Mr C wouldnt have lost out on the £2,080 he transferred.
 
The impact on Mr C
It is clear that the scam had a profound impact on Mr Cs well-being. I am mindful the bulk of 
that impact follows directly from the actions of the scammer. But I consider that Cashplus 
could and ought to have prevented Mr C from losing some of the money as a result of the 
scam, for the reasons Ive explained. By stopping some of those financial losses Mr C 
incurred, it is my finding that Cashplus could have reduced the overall impact on Mr C.
Considering everything, I agree with our investigators recommendation that Cashplus 
should pay Mr C £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced 
as a result of its actions.Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I uphold, in part, Mr Cs complaint against Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus). 
I now direct Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) to:
Refund Mr C for the £2,080 he lost when he made the third transfer.
Re-structure the business account the transfer was made from as if the amount 
hadnt been debited on 16 June 2020, including amending any interest and charges.
Pay £200 compensation to Mr C for the material distress and inconvenience he 
experienced. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold in part this complaint. 
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) should calculate and pay 
compensation as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C on behalf of 
C to accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman