DRN-3904104
The complaint
Miss L complains that Progressive Building Society said, just after it issued a mortgage offer 
to her, that this offer could be extended towards the end of its three month validity period. 
But then it wouldnt extend after all, and she had to take a mortgage at higher interest rates. 
What happened
Miss Ls complaint has been brought by a representative, who acted as her mortgage broker
in this case. He told us that Progressive offered Miss L a mortgage on 4 February 2022. That
was valid until 5 May 2022. Miss L knew the people she was buying a house from probably
wouldnt be able to move within this timescale, so her broker asked if the offer could be
extended. Hed understood Progressives response made a commitment to extending the
offer for a further three months in future. He said he relied on that, and didnt then source a
different mortgage offer, with a longer validity period, for Miss L.
When Miss Ls broker then asked for an extension to the offer, on 29 April, Progressive said
it no longer did that. It would issue a new offer instead, subject to its new interest rates. Miss
L said she had to accept this, because she was very close to completion on her new home.
Miss L said her first mortgage offer was for £435.31 a month with an interest rate of 1.69%
but she then had to accept the new offer of £514.66 a month at the rate of 2.79%. This
meant she would pay an additional £1,904.40 over the two-year fixed rate period.
Miss Ls broker complained to Progressive on her behalf, and it said its offers are valid for 90
days. It wont consider whether to extend until close to the expiry date, and theres never any
guarantee this will be granted. When the broker asked about an extension, Progressive
didnt warn him about an interest rate change because that wasnt its policy at the time. But
on 1 March, Progressive changed its procedure, so now it will review interest rates at the
same time as deciding whether to extend offers. Progressive said it had emailed the broker
to confirm this change.
Progressive wouldnt honour the previous rate, and it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
The broker said he wasnt told about this change on 1 March. He did get an email on 8
March, from Progressive, titled expired offers but he didnt read that, because he didnt
have any expired offers with Progressive. He felt this email was incorrectly titled. And
anyway, mortgage rates had already risen by this time, so Miss L would always have
suffered some disadvantage.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that there was no
confirmation, when Progressive initially said the offer could be extended, that interest rates
would stay the same. And there was no guarantee that the extension would be granted. The
expiry date on the first offer was clear. Progressive then had a policy change, and told the
broker about this by email. Our investigator didnt think Progressive was responsible for Miss
Ls broker not reading that email, and he thought the title was clear enough.
Our investigator said that lenders are able to set their own lending policies, as long as they
apply them fairly and reasonably. By the time an extension was requested for Miss L, the
policy had changed. So it was fair and reasonable for Progressive to offer the new mortgage
offer with the current rates available at the time, in line with its changed policy.
Our investigator said Progressives agent just didnt know this change would happen, when
she responded to Miss Ls broker about an extension. He said Progressive was then allowed
to change its policy, and Miss Ls broker should have realised this had happened, from the
email he received on 8 March 2022. Our investigator thought the change was a legitimate
exercise of the lenders commercial judgment, so we wouldnt interfere with it.
Our investigator said he understood that Miss L would be disappointed, but he thought that
she was just a victim of unfortunate timing.
Miss L didnt agree. She said Progressive should at least have told her about the change in
policy before it was made. She also sent a letter from her broker.
Miss Ls broker said that Progressives mortgage offer was binding. Any extension would be
an extension of that offer at those rates. If it wasnt at those rates, it wouldnt be an
extension, it would be a new offer. The broker thought the response on an extension was
explicit. And he said our investigator had referred to an extension to expired offers, but
Progressive had never extended expired offers, no lender does that. He said Miss Ls offer
hadnt expired when the email telling him about the policy change arrived, so that email
wasnt clear enough. And Miss Ls offer still hadnt expired when he asked for the extension.
Miss Ls broker said the earlier email, of 14 February, was still relevant to that offer. The
broker still felt he hadnt been properly informed of the policy change on 8 March, this email
was only sent a week after the change. So Miss L would still have been prejudiced then,
particularly as he said the subsequent interest rate rise on 17 March was widely expected
and mostly priced in already by lenders. He also said that we couldnt know that Progressive
did announce this change on its website, and we shouldnt make judgments about things
which cannot be proven by the evidence presented.
Both Miss L and her representative wanted this complaint to be considered by an
ombudsman, so this case was passed to me for a final decision. I then reached my 
provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
First, Id like to consider the response that Miss Ls broker got, when he initially asked,
shortly after the offer had been issued, if Miss Ls offer could be extended. That was as
follows 
Offer is originally only for 3 months but with the option that we then can arrange for
an extension closer to the expiry date  we will just ask for an up to date bank
statement / payslip to make sure her financial situation has not changed detrimentally
and then we issue extension letters which last for a further 3 months  we only offer 6
months initially on a new build application of a self build.
There is no cast iron guarantee of extension here. But what there is, is a set of fairly 
clear criteria for granting an extension, and a reassuring statement about what will 
happen if those criteria are met. There are no other conditions, or warnings of changes to the original offer. I think it would be reasonable to conclude, from this email, that any 
extension would be an extension to the original offer  including the interest rate.
I also note that what Progressive said in its final response letter to Miss L was that the 
agent who sent this email about extending Miss Ls offer in future  did not state that 
an interest rate review would take place as, at that time, this was not the Societys 
procedure. That makes me think Progressive meant this email to be read in the same 
way that Im reading it. So the email says Miss Ls offer can be extended, and theres no 
suggestion the interest rate will be changed, because at the time the email was sent, 
Progressive wouldnt have changed the rate when it extended the offer.
Miss Ls broker has told us that if this statement hadnt been made, he would have 
looked elsewhere for a different mortgage offer for Miss L, with a longer validity period. I 
accept that  he had asked Progressive about an extension because he knew that Miss 
L wouldnt be in a position to take up the mortgage offer with the three-month validity 
period. I think the email Progressive sent on 14 February, was likely to make him think 
he didnt need to look elsewhere, because Progressive would extend the offer so long 
as Miss Ls circumstances hadnt changed. And, importantly, I also think that 
Progressive either realised, or ought to  have realised, that Miss L and her broker were 
likely to rely on this statement. Its email didnt say an extension was subject to possible 
future policy changes, for example.
But Progressive then says it changed its policy, and we know it emailed the broker on 8 
March to set out a policy on extending offers. I think its reasonable for Progressive to 
say that it had then set out a policy which doesnt appear to be compatible with the 
previous email. So if Miss L or her broker didnt contact Progressive on 8 March to 
check whether the arrangements it had previously set out in its email would still be 
available to Miss L, or alternatively didnt act to protect her position by obtaining a new 
mortgage offer then, that wouldnt be Progressives fault.
I dont think that it was wrong for Progressive to change its policy here. It was entitled to 
do that. But what I do think, is that this adversely affected Miss Ls position  because of 
what Progressive had said earlier. If she or her broker relied on what was said by 
Progressive on 14 February (which they have said they did, and which Ive said I think 
would be both reasonable and foreseeable) then when Progressive changed its mind, it 
was too late now for Miss L to get a mortgage deal she couldve got on 14 February, if 
Progressive hadnt said it would extend her offer. Her broker said her position had 
already been prejudiced, because interest rates had increased since then.
I think, therefore, it would be fair for me to hold Progressive responsible for any losses 
Miss L incurred, because between 14 February and 8 March, Progressive had given 
Miss L and her broker to understand that Miss L could have an extension on her existing 
offer, when it was coming to an end. But after this, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
hold Progressive responsible for any further rise in interest rates which adversely 
affected Miss L.
That leads me to the conclusion that its fair and reasonable for Progressive to refund 
the additional costs that Miss L will pay over the first two years of her mortgage, 
because she didnt know, and could not have known, that Progressive wouldnt extend 
its offer after all, until 8 March. But I dont think its fair and reasonable for Progressive to 
cover any additional costs that Miss L incurred because her new mortgage offer wasnt 
actually obtained until around two months later.
I know that Miss Ls broker said that he felt Progressive should have warned him, and 
by extension Miss L, about its policy change earlier, and indeed, before it actually happened. But I think the relevant time is when I can see that Progressives policy is no 
longer compatible with what it had said previously. And I think that is 8 March 2022.
And that means I think that Progressive should ensure that Miss L suffers no detriment 
from having relied, between 14 February and 8 March 2022, on what I think was a 
commitment to extend her existing mortgage offer, at the same rate.
That will require Progressive to work out how much of the interest that Miss L is paying 
now, is a result of rate rises on its mortgage lending between 14 February and 8 March. 
So Progressive should take the offer it made to Miss L in early February, and work out 
any changes to the interest rate which would have been applied to that same 
application, if it had been made on 14 February, and then again on 8 March.
If the interest rates on the lowest two year fixed rate available to Miss L (based on the 
same application and closest possible offer, so a mortgage without fee, for the same 
lending amount, loan to value etc) rose between 14 February and 8 March, then 
Progressive should then rework Miss Ls mortgage to remove an amount of interest 
equal to any increase in interest rates between these periods. But if Progressive can 
show that the interest rates it would have offered to Miss L didnt change in this time, 
then it doesnt need to rework her mortgage.
Regardless of whether Progressive needs to rework Miss Ls mortgage as a result of the 
above, I still think this has been a difficult time for Miss L, which has made the already 
stressful process of buying a property, even more so. And I think thats at least partly 
Progressives fault. So I also think that Progressive should pay Miss L £200 in 
compensation.
I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I would ask 
Progressive to set out its calculation of any reduction in Miss Ls mortgage that this 
decision would produce, in reply to this provisional decision.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Miss Ls representative replied, but Progressive didnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ls broker thanked me for my provisional decision, but said he and Miss L wanted to 
comment on it. He referred to specific parts of my provisional decision. 
Miss Ls broker referred to where Id said that Progressive only had to make up for any rise 
in interest rates between 14 February and 8 March 2022. He wanted to query both of the 
dates Id used here.
Miss Ls broker first said that the interest rate featured in the mortgage offer may not have 
been available with Progressive on 14 February, noting that Miss Ls application was made 
on 13 January. So he said he and Miss L were concerned Progressive might only think it had 
to refund the difference between rates available on 14 February and those available on 8 
March, instead of the difference between the interest rate in the offer and the best likewise 
rate available on 8th March.
I think my provisional decision was clear that all Progressive has to do is to refund the 
difference, if any, between rates available on 14 February and those available on 8 March. Thats because I think that the mistake which Progressive made here, happened on 14 
February, when it set out for Miss Ls broker the conditions under which Miss L would be 
able to extend her mortgage offer in future. 
If Progressive hadnt given these reassurances, then Miss Ls broker said he would have 
sourced a different offer for her at that time. So, if things hadnt gone wrong here, then 
Miss L would have accessed the rates available on 14 February. 
I understand that Miss Ls broker wouldnt necessarily have sourced any revised offer from 
Progressive at that time. Its possible that some better rates may have been available in the 
market then. But it would be difficult now to be sure whether an application from Miss L 
would have been accepted by a different lender at the time. So I think that the rate available 
from Progressive on 14 February is likely to provide a reasonable guide to what was 
available to Miss L then, and its fair to use this to provide a resolution in this case. 
Miss Ls broker then referred to the email Progressive sent on 8 March. Id said I thought it 
was reasonable for Progressive to say it had then set out a policy which didnt appear to be 
compatible with the previous email. And I also said that if Miss L or her broker didnt either 
contact Progressive then to check if it would still be able to extend Miss Ls offer, or 
alternatively didnt obtain a new mortgage offer then, that wouldnt be Progressives fault.
Miss Ls broker said he would have agreed, if the email sent on 8 March had been correctly
titled. He wanted me to consider the Financial Conduct Authoritys requirement for treating 
customers fairly  Consumers are provided with clear information and are kept appropriately 
informed before, during and after the point of sale. He provided evidence that the email had 
been titled Expired Offers, and confirmed that, because he did not have any expired offers 
with Progressive, he had ignored this email. 
Miss Ls broker said I hadnt addressed this in my provisional decision, and he hoped this 
would change my mind, so I would extend the time period in my award to the difference 
between the interest rate Miss L was initially offered, and the rate she obtained on 6 May.
In my provisional decision above, I said that on 8 March, Progressive had set out that a 
policy which was clearly incompatible with what it had previously said. Miss Ls broker 
doesnt argue that the content of this email was unclear, or that the emails content has 
breached FCAs principles. Rather, his argument is that it was reasonable for him to simply 
ignore this email, because he considers the title was so unclear that he wasnt, and ought 
not to have been, aware that it was relevant to him. 
I have considered the arguments raised about the title of this email, but Im afraid I dont 
agree. Im sorry to have to tell Miss L that I think the argument her broker makes here just 
stretches this principle too far. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to accept 
that Miss Ls broker didnt read this communication from her prospective lender at all, but 
that our service ought to hold Progressive responsible for not providing the broker with 
information which was sent directly to him, in this email. 
For those reasons, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally 
proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Progressive Building Society must work out any changes to the 
interest rate (based on the same application and the closest possible offer, as set out above) 
if it had been made on 14 February, and then again on 8 March. If the interest rates rise 
between those two dates, then Progressive Building Society should then rework Miss Ls mortgage to remove an amount of interest equal to any increase in interest rates between 
these periods.
Progressive Building Society should also pay Miss L £200 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman