DRN-3790190
The complaint
Mrs R complained because she felt Corporate & Professional Pensions Limited (C&P) 
treated her unfairly as she felt the investment held within her self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP) was unsuitable.
What happened
Mrs R switched funds from three personal pensions into a SIPP with C&P. The SIPP started 
on 5 September 2011 and the funds from the existing pensions were transferred into the 
SIPP shortly after. On 22 September 2011 Mrs R wrote to C&P saying that she wished to 
proceed with an investment that was to be held within the SIPP. The funds held in the SIPP 
were then invested as per Mrs Rs instructions. Mrs R didnt receive any advice from C&P in 
respect of the pension switches or the investment.
Mrs R told us she contacted C&P in early 2021 and became aware at that point that the 
SIPP was valued at zero. She complained to C&P in April 2021. C&P didnt address the 
complaint as it felt Mrs R had complained too late. Mrs R referred her complaint to us on 
5 August 2021. C&P didnt consent to us looking at the complaint as it remained of the view 
that it was referred to us too late.
What I provisionally decided
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I felt Mrs R had referred her complaint to 
us in time, and why I felt it shouldnt be upheld. The relevant parts of my provisional decision 
are outlined below, and they form part of this final decision.
Our jurisdiction
If a business doesnt consent, we cant consider a complaint if the consumer refers it to 
us:
omore than six years after the event theyre complaining about happened; or
oif the six year period has passed, more than three years from the date on which 
the consumer became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that 
they had cause for complaint.
For the six year time limit, the event Mrs R was complaining about was C&P arranging 
the SIPP and the investment within it. As that happened in 2011, for Mrs R to comply 
with this time limit she needed to have referred a complaint to us by 2017. As we 
received the complaint in 2021 it was referred to us outside of the required six year time 
limit. I therefore concluded that Mrs R referred her complaint to us too late in respect of 
this time limit.
For the three year time limit, I needed to consider when Mrs R became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that she had cause for complaint about C&Ps 
actions, and whether she referred her complaint to us within three years of that point.
C&P argued that Mrs R would have realised there was a problem with her investment 
because of a letter sent to her giving her details of a firm of solicitors and because 
HMRC contacted all investors regarding the unauthorised payment they received.
I hadnt seen a copy of anything sent to Mrs R from HMRC. So I didnt know what HMRC 
said or when they said it. Id seen a letter in C&Ps file which I thought was the one it 
referred to in respect of the solicitors. This was sent by C&P to Mrs R and said that the 
solicitors had written to her regarding the investment and that while becoming a client of 
the solicitors wasnt compulsory it might be beneficial in protecting her interests. The 
letter wasnt dated, so I had no idea when it was sent to Mrs R. I also didnt think it gave 
any information about any problems with the investment. Mrs R had also told us that she 
hadnt had any contact from either the solicitors or HMRC.
I wasnt therefore persuaded that the contact C&P referred to put Mrs R on notice that 
she had a cause for complaint. Further, I hadnt seen anything else in the papers wed 
been provided with which I thought should have given her cause for complaint.
Accordingly, based on what Id seen, I concluded that the three year time limit for Mrs R 
to complain started when she contacted C&P in 2021. And Mrs R referred her complaint 
to us within three years of that point. So her complaint was referred to us in time.
The merits of Mrs Rs complaint
There was no evidence to suggest that C&P advised Mrs R in respect of the pension 
switches, the SIPP or the underlying investment. So C&P wasnt liable for any advice 
that Mrs R received in this respect.
Mrs Rs complaint was more that in its role in providing the SIPP C&P should have done 
more to ensure that it met her needs and that the investment was suitable for her. She 
felt it should have raised concerns about the suitability of the investment  including that 
100% of the funds were to be invested in an unregulated high risk investment. She 
raised specific points about how she felt C&P had failed her:
oit didnt conduct adequate due diligence on the investment
oit didnt investigate her capacity to understand what she was investing in, whether 
she could be considered a sophisticated investor or whether she had the capacity 
to accept the risks
oit didnt ensure that the investment was suitable for her
oit didnt take sufficient steps to ensure that she fully understood the terms of the 
SIPP or the investment and how they would affect her pension
oit didnt make her aware of the ongoing cost of the SIPP.
I wasnt persuaded by Mrs Rs arguments. This was because the failings Mrs R pointed 
out were, in my view, the responsibility of whoever gave Mrs R the advice. C&P had a 
duty to treat Mrs R fairly, but I thought that duty was limited to its responsibilities as the 
SIPP provider. Those responsibilities didnt, in my opinion, extend to ensuring that the 
advice given to Mrs R by another business or advisor was suitable. In its role as the 
SIPP provider, I hadnt seen anything which persuaded me that C&P acted unfairly  it 
provided the SIPP that Mrs R applied for; and it acted on her instructions to proceed with 
the investment.
Summary
I concluded that:oMrs Rs complaint was one we could consider/decide as she referred it to us 
within the appliable time limits
oC&P treated Mrs R fairly in its capacity as the provider of her SIPP.
Responses to my provisional decision
I havent received anything further from either Mrs R or C&P.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there is nothing further for me to consider, my final decision remains as per my 
provisional decision  for the same reasons.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman