DRN-1420998
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2000. 
background
This complaint is about a single premium PPI policy taken out in 2000. The loan was in joint 
names whilst the cover was solely for Mr A. The policy was taken out initially when Mr and 
Mrs A applied for a loan for home improvements. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with 
our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs As case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. I explain why below.
I have seen the loan agreement for the sale. The credit agreement describes the PPI as, 
Optional Credit Insurance. The agreement explains the cost and show how that adds to the 
total monthly payment. And Mr and Mrs A signed this document suggesting their agreement 
with its contents. So, I think its more likely that PPI was presented as optional and Mr and 
Mrs A chose to take it and thats how it came to be applied to their loan account. But I 
understand why they might not remember this, given these events happened over 19 years 
ago.
Nationwide says the policy was sold without a formal recommendation. Mr and Mrs As wider 
testimony is that thy recall little of the events in 2000. Ive been shown no documentary 
evidence or testimony that suggests that the policy was sold on an advised basis. So, 
Nationwide had to give Mr and Mrs A clear enough information about the policy so they 
could decide if they wanted to buy it. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But I dont think better information would have stopped them from buying 
the policy. I explain why I say that below. 
Mr A was eligible for the policy. And there are things that sometimes arent covered by 
policies like this, or for which the benefit might be more difficult to get than may have been 
expected, but it seems that Mr A wouldnt have been affected by those. For instance Mr A 
told us he was employed and had no pre-existing medical conditions. And I think that Mr A had, most likely, a need for the cover. I say this because whilst Mr A 
was entitled to some sick pay, it didnt provide his full salary for a year. So whilst it may have 
been helpful for a while, Mr A told us he had no other means he could have relied on if he 
was out of work for an extended period, or if he lost his job. But this policy could have paid 
out for up to a year and would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr A would have 
received. And it would have also provided Mr and Mrs A with help in the event that Mr A lost 
his job. So, having considered this, on balance, I think that Mr and Mrs A would have found 
the policy useful.
The policy appears to have been flexible in that Mr and Mrs A may have got back a pro rata 
refund of the PPI premium if they cancelled the policy early. So I dont think this meant the 
policy wasnt right for them.
And whilst I could understand it if Mr and Mrs A thought now that the policy was expensive, I 
think the costs were set out clearly on the agreement and I havent seen anything to make 
me think the policy was unaffordable to Mr and Mrs A or that they had a need to keep costs 
down. And given how long the policy could have paid out for, most likely, if Mr and Mrs A 
made a successful claim, they could have got back quite a bit more than they paid for it. So I 
dont think that in this case the cost made the policy unsuitable for Mr and Mrs A.
I realise Mr and Mrs A will be disappointed by the outcome. But on balance, for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think Mr and Mrs A have lost out because of anything Nationwide may 
have done wrong. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman