DRN-2593624
The complaint
Mr S complains Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos Card) 
continued to report arrears on his account, despite it being passed to a collections agency.
What happened
Mr S held an Argos credit card. It fell into arrears in 2015. In 2018 it was passed to a debt 
collection agency who Ill refer to as M. Mr S says he was in a debt management plan (DMP) 
at this time and continued to make minimum payments as per his DMP. 
Mr S says that in his experience when an account is passed to a collections agency then all 
new communication should come from that agency, in this case M. However, Argos 
continued to report arrears on his credit file. He says Argos didnt make him aware of this 
and had it done so, he couldve taken steps to clear the arrears. Mr S also says that during 
this time he was offered a credit limit increase by Argos which he thinks is irresponsible. The 
account was closed in December 2019. Mr S complained to Argos in September 2020.
Argos explained that, although Mr S account had been transferred to M for collection 
purposes, it was Argos which had continued to report the arrears on his credit file as they 
had not been cleared. Mr S wasnt happy with this response and referred the complaint to 
us.
One of our investigators considered Mr S complaint. He explained that whilst the account 
had been passed to M for collections activity, it remained owned by Argos. So, it was correct 
that Argos continued to report arrears to his credit file whilst they remained unpaid. He didnt 
find any evidence that Mr S had been offered a credit limit increase whilst he was in a DMP.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator. He said it was not made clear that he needed to pay 
Argos directly to ensure his credit file wouldnt be affected. He maintained that he had been 
offered a credit limit increase and he said he was suffering from depression at the time of 
taking the credit card and that Argos should be held to a higher standard because of this. He 
believed that he was making the required payments to M and suggested that it was a 
breakdown in communication which led to arrears being recorded on his account. 
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So its been passed to me to 
consider and make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr S complaint is that what has been reported on his credit file isnt accurate. 
And he believes that this is due to poor communication between Argos and M. I dont agree 
that is the case. I think what has been reported is accurate. Ill explain why.
Whilst Mr S may have made all his payments to M on time, and sometimes paid more than 
required, this doesnt mean that the credit file is inaccurate. Argos hasnt recorded missed 
payments on his credit file, its recorded arrears, and subsequently a payment arrangement 
and there is a difference. Mr S did miss payments when he first got into financial difficulties, 
and whilst he mayve started to make some payments again, the arrears were never cleared, 
so Argos has correctly reported this. Something it is required to do.
We dont know what Mr S was told when his account was transferred to M as Argos has told 
us it wouldve been M who contacted him. However, it was only transferred to M from a 
collections point of view. Due to the arrears on the account this was something Argos was 
entitled to do. The debt remained owned by Argos. So, it was correct for Argos to be the one 
reporting the arrears to his credit file. M didnt report further arrears in addition to this. Whilst 
other lenders he owed money to mayve had differing processes for reporting arrears, this 
doesnt mean that Argos is wrong in how it reported the arrears on the account he held with 
it. Its also worth noting that whether he made the payments direct to Argos, or to M, there 
were still arrears on his account and they still would been reported on his credit file.
Argos regularly wrote to Mr M making him aware of the arrears on the account, So Im not 
persuaded by his argument that had Argos made him aware that arrears would continue to 
be reported, he wouldve paid them off. He was after all in a DMP which would suggest he 
didnt have much spare income at the time. And this DMP would also be showing on his 
credit file.
Ive been provided with the contact and file notes from Mr S Argos account. Within that I can 
see no mention of a credit limit increase. And Argos has confirmed it has no record of 
offering him this. I know Mr S is adamant that he was offered an increase, but he hasnt 
been able to provide any proof of that. On balance, I cant say that he wasnt offered a credit 
limit increase. However, even if he was, the credit limit didnt increase at any point, so he 
hasnt suffered any loss or gotten into further debt because of any offered increase.
For completeness, Ill add that Mr S has raised issues with the credit card being granted in 
the first place. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Argos didnt properly consider his application 
at the time or shouldnt have agreed to it. Mr S has said he was struggling from a mental 
health point of view. But I cant se Argos was aware of that or couldve taken this into 
account when he applied for the credit card.
If Mr S has any concerns about the conduct of M or how it has treated him, he would first 
need to raise that directly with M. He may then be able to refer that as a separate complaint 
to us.
My final decision
I know Mr S feels very strongly about this matter, but I dont think a mistake has been made. 
So I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman