DRN-3808623
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the service he received from Nationwide Building Society surrounding 
his request to complete a current account switch to them.
What happened
Mr T requested a current account switch to Nationwide from a third-party bank. Nationwide 
reviewed Mr Ts request but determined that they were unwilling to accept Mr T as a new 
customer. This meant that Nationwide closed the new current account that had been opened 
as a result of the current account switch process, and which also meant that when the third-
party bank transferred Mr Ts account balance to Nationwide, it was returned back to them. 
Mr T wasnt happy with what took place, including that at one point neither Nationwide nor 
the third-party back could tell him where the balance of his current account actually was. Mr 
T also wasnt happy with the service he received from Nationwide surrounding his switch 
request, and so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ts complaint. They explained that a requested current account 
switch could only be successful if the applicant customer met Nationwides criteria so that 
Nationwide would be willing to offer banking services to them, which in Mr Ts instance 
wasnt the case. 
Nationwide further explained that this had meant that when the third-party bank had 
attempted to complete the switch to Nationwide, there hadnt been an open Nationwide 
account to complete the switch to, and that Nationwide had returned the money received 
back to the third-party bank. 
Finally, Nationwide acknowledged that it had missed the opportunity to decline the switch in 
time for the third-party bank to have not attempted to complete it, and they apologised to Mr 
T for this and offered to make a payment of £25 to him as compensation for any upset or 
inconvenience he may have incurred. Mr T wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so 
he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response that Nationwide 
had issued to Mr Ts complaint already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what 
had happened, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I feel that much of what happened here stemmed from Nationwides 
decision to not accept Mr T as a new customer, and specifically because Nationwide didnt 
make that decision in time to cancel the current account switch process before it began. This 
meant that the third-party bank continued to try to complete the switch, which wasnt 
possible because Nationwide having not accepted Mr T as a new customer  had closed 
the new account to which the third-party bank were trying to complete the switch.
Nationwide have explained that when a new customer requests a current account switch to 
them, their process is that the applicant party  in this case, Mr T  is assessed by their 
application vetting team who make the decision as to whether Nationwide will accept the 
applicant as a new customer or not. Nationwide have also confirmed that if the application 
vetting team are able to make their decision relatively quickly, it can the case that the current 
account switch process can be cancelled before it begins, but that unfortunately that wasnt 
the case in this instance.
This meant that the current account switch process couldnt be stopped at the time that 
Nationwide made the decision to not accept Mr T as a new customer. Specifically, this 
meant that Nationwide had opened a new current account for Mr T, and had supplied details 
of that new current account to the third-party bank, so that the account could be switched 
from the third-party bank to the newly opened account, before the decision to not accept Mr 
T as a new customer could be implemented by Nationwide. 
Nationwide recognised the switch process had already begun and that a new Nationwide 
current account had already been opened for Mr T, and so they closed that new account so 
that the switch process that had already begun wouldnt be able to complete. Nationwide 
also sent Mr T an email at that time, confirming that they wouldnt be offering him an account 
and that the account they had opened for him had now been closed.
Nationwides process here seems reasonable to me, and I dont feel that Nationwide making 
the decision to not to accept Mr T as a new customer is unfair. 
Nationwide havent disclosed a detailed reasoning to Mr T as to why they made the decision 
to not accept him as a new customer. But Nationwide arent obliged to provide such a 
detailed reasoning, and one reason for this is because if details of Nationwides application 
acceptance criteria were made public, it would increase the risk that future applicants might 
attempt to use this information to circumnavigate the application acceptance criteria that 
Nationwide have in place.
Nationwide have provided a detailed explanation as to why they werent willing to accept Mr 
T as a new customer to this service. And while Im unable to disclose this detailed reasoning 
to Mr T, for the reasons outlined above, I am satisfied upon reviewing Nationwides 
explanation that their decision to not accept Mr T as a new customer was reasonable and 
that they havent acted unfairly towards Mr T by making it. I realise this might not fully satisfy 
Mr Ts desire to better understand Nationwides decision, but I hope that he finds some 
comfort in knowing that someone impartial has assessed it and considers it to be fair. 
Im aware that Mr T is unhappy with the service he received from Nationwide surrounding 
the events under consideration here. But given that Im satisfied that Nationwide didnt act 
unfairly towards Mr T by not accepting him as a new customer, I also dont feel that 
Nationwides associated actions  including how they explained to Mr T that the account 
balance received from the third-party bank had been returned to the third-party bank  are 
themselves unfair.
I acknowledge that if Nationwide had made their decision to not accept Mr T as a customer 
sooner, that much of the inconvenience Mr T incurred here wouldnt have taken place. But 
while I accept that Nationwide not making their decision in time to cancel the switching 
process was unfortunate, I dont feel that it constitutes an unfair or unreasonable act. 
I say this because Nationwide appear to have made their decision reasonably quickly, missing the deadline to cancel the switching process by minutes rather than hours, and 
because Nationwide emailed Mr T promptly upon making that decision to inform him that the 
switch wouldnt be successful. 
I also note that Nationwide have accepted that the unfortunate timing of their decision to not 
accept Mr T as a new customer has caused Mr T some inconvenience. Nationwide have 
apologised to Mr T for this and offered to pay £25 compensation to him for any trouble and 
upset he may have incurred. This seems reasonable to me, especially given that I feel that 
the act for which Nationwide are offering the compensation  the timing of their decision to 
not accept him as a new customer  was unfortunate, but not unfair. 
Additionally, while Mr T may have been unhappy that Nationwide couldnt confirm to him 
exactly where his account balance was, Nationwide did correctly inform Mr T that the 
balance had been returned to the third-party bank and that he would need to contact them to 
locate the money. 
Ive also reviewed the letters sent by Nationwide to Mr T in regard to his complaint, and I feel 
that these provide an accurate explanation to Mr T as to what had happened, including that 
Mr T would need to confirm the status of his direct debits with the companies with whom the 
direct debits were held, and I dont feel that they constitute any form of poor service.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr T was wanting here, but it follows from all the above 
that I dont feel that Nationwide have acted unfairly towards him as he contends and that 
consequently I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further 
action. I hope that Mr T will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman