DRN-2038160
The complaint
This complaint is about Miss Cs mortgage with Santander UK Plc. Shes unhappy that she 
paid interest at the standard variable rate (SVR) for many years when she could have been 
on a lower rate.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so Ill merely summarise them 
here.
Miss Cs mortgage was on an initial fixed rate that expired in 2009, at which point the 
mortgage reverted to Santanders SVR. Santander sent out a letter to inform Miss C she 
could ask for a new deal, but it seems that letter never arrived. The mortgage remained on 
SVR until 2017, when a new fixed rate was arranged. Miss C complained saying shed been 
overcharged during the intervening years, at a time when she was struggling with arrears 
and late payments.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint, and when it came to us, a fellow ombudsman 
decided that our power to consider the complaint was restricted to events since May 2013. 
The investigator who looked into the complaint didnt recommend it should succeed. Miss C 
has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides 
instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me that there are two main issues for to decide here. They are:
whether Santander did enough to let Miss C know that better deals were available and 
what she needed to do in order to get one; and
whether Santander was obliged to offer Miss C a better deal as a way of helping her 
when she was in financial difficulties.
On the first question, Miss C says Santander had a duty of care to make her aware better 
rates were available. I think Santander did just that. Im not referring here to the letter it sent 
when her initial fixed rate ended in 2009. That happened before May 2013, so is outside the 
period our rules allow me to consider. In any event, Im happy to take Miss C on face value 
when she says she didnt receive the letter. 
What I am referring to is the information that accompanied the annual statements Santander 
sent Miss C each year. The following extract from one such statement is an example of what 
Im talking about.
The Feature End Date shows when the features of your current deal will no longer apply to 
your loan (for example, if you have a special fixed rate or tracker product). If your deal does 
come to an end this year, please contact us if you would like to arrange a new deal. You can 
contact us on 0845 600 0579. Lines are open 8am to 9pm Monday to Friday and 8am to 
4pm on Saturdays.
In any event, it isnt a duty of care that prompted Santander to provide the information, as 
there is no such duty of care. Rather, its a commercial incentive for a lender to tell 
consumers about the availability of deals to encourage them to stay rather than re-mortgage 
elsewhere. 
On the second question, its worth pointing out that no borrower is entitled to a lower rate; 
lenders have to consider context and individual circumstances in all cases. Most lenders, 
when asked to provide a new rate to a borrower with an arrears history, require the arrears 
to be cleared in full and then the mortgage kept up to date and arrears-free for a minimum 
period (a year is not untypical) before theyll consider offering a new rate. 
Thats because most rate deals come with an early repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage 
ends during the term of the deal. If a borrower still couldnt afford the payment under a new 
deal, they might still be at risk of the property being taken into possession and then sold. Or, 
the borrower might decide the mortgage is unaffordable and that they need to sell the 
property, either to downsize or to go to rented/family/friends. If a sale happened for either of 
those reasons, then the ERC clause would be activated resulting in an extra amount being 
added to the closing balance on sale. So lenders typically guard against that risk by insisting 
on an arrears-free period before considering a new rate deal.
Looking at the history of Miss Cs mortgage, and the period during which she was struggling 
with her payments, I dont find it likely that shed have met Santanders criteria for a new deal 
if shed asked for one any earlier than she did, in 2017.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against Santander UK Plc. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 September 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman