DRN-4053382
The complaint
Ms L and Mr R complain about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (AIL) and the service 
they received following the claim they made on their home insurance policy.
Ms L has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Ms L or Mr 
R as Ms L throughout the decision.
What happened
Ms L held a home insurance policy, underwritten by AIL. Unfortunately, in March 2022, Ms L 
discovered a leak in her property, coming through the ceiling in her lounge. Initially, Ms L 
sourced a local contractor in an attempt to fix the leak. But this contractor wasnt able to fix 
the leak and so, Ms L made a claim on her home insurance policy to access and fix the leak, 
as well as repair any damage caused during this process.
AIL accepted Ms Ls claim. And they appointed a loss adjustor, who Ill refer to as D, to 
manage the claim on their behalf. So, AIL were responsible for the actions of D during the 
claim.
D inspected the damage and agreed the work that needed to be completed. Ms L sought 
quotes from a local contractor, who Ill refer to as X, to complete this work, and D 
authorised these costs. The repair work began in early May, with Ms L and her family being 
placed in alternative accommodation while the works were completed as their bathroom 
wasnt usable. Ms L was also able to claim for disturbance allowance during this time. 
The works were completed, but following this, repainting was needed in Ms Ls bathroom 
and lounge. And she wanted AIL to cover the costs of this as part of the claim. AIL refused to 
do so, and Ms L was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Ms L didnt think AILs refusal to cover the costs of the paintwork was fair. And she also 
complained about the service shed been provided during the claim, including and not limited 
to the lack of communication and AILs failure to make it clear what disturbance allowance 
she could claim.
AIL responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the painting required was 
to rectify the workmanship of X and so, they didnt think the costs of this was something they 
were responsible for. AIL also thought the service they had provided was fair, and that Ms L 
was provided with her entitlements under the policy she held. So, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Ms L remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her 
complaint to us. 
While the complaint was with our service, AIL acknowledged Ms L hadnt been paid her full 
disturbance allowance entitlement. So, they offered to pay Ms L the difference she was 
owed, plus 8% statutory interest on this amount.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought the increase in the 
disturbance allowance of £20 plus 8% interest was a fair one, and in line with the policy 
terms. So, they thought AIL should pay this amount. And they thought, based on the 
information available to them, that the painting required to the bathroom and lounge most 
likely resulted from the repairs needed under the claim. So, they thought AIL should cover 
the costs of this, on receipt of invoices from Ms L. But they didnt think AIL needed to 
compensate Ms L for the handling of the claim, as our investigator thought it had been 
progressed as they wouldve expected.
Ms L accepted this recommendation. But AIL didnt. AIL maintained that, as Ms L accepted a 
cash settlement offer for the claim and arranged the repairs through her own contractor, any 
damage caused by X werent their responsibility to cover the costs of. And they thought the 
painting was required due to workmanship of X. So, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. As AIL didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I note that both AIL and Ms L have raised no objections to the additional payment of £20 
plus 8% interest to ensure Ms L receives the full disturbance allowance she is entitled to. As 
this hasnt been challenged, or disputed, I have assumed this is accepted by both parties 
and havent considered this any further.
I also note neither has raised any objections or challenges to our investigators view that the 
claim itself was progressed as it shouldve been. So again, I have assumed acceptance from 
both parties and wont be considering this aspect of the complaint any further. Instead, Ive 
focused on the main area of dispute, which centres around the painting that is required to Ms 
Ls home, and whether or not AIL should cover the costs of this.
Ms L feels the costs of this should be covered by AIL. But AIL feels the painting is required 
due to the workmanship of X, who Ms L appointed herself following a cash settlement. As 
both parties disagree directly, Ive based my decision on the information available to me, 
considering the balance of probabilities and what is most likely to have happened, to decide 
whether or not I think AIL have acted fairly here. And I dont think they have.
I can see in an email from D to AIL on 25 May, they recognise there may be some damage 
to the paintwork in both the bathroom and lounge caused by X and their failure to take the 
appropriate level of care. But, also within this email, D agree that some of the damage to the 
paintwork is present in the areas where the work was completed. And, that the damage was 
likely to have been caused by the repair work approved under the claim, such as the 
removal of coving. And D agreed that Ms Ls ceiling would need repainting and that no 
provision was made for this, or its cost, by X in their quote.
The email goes onto express Ds opinion that there is an overlap between damage that may 
have been caused by X, and the damage that wouldve most likely been directly caused by 
the repairs needed as part of the claim.
So, I think its accepted by D that there was repainting needed to ensure the ceiling and 
walls in the lounge and bathroom were returned to the state they were in before the repairs began. And I wouldve expected AIL to cover the costs of this work under the policy Ms L 
held. And I cant see they have, or that they took Ds comments into any form of 
consideration.
Ive also seen no substantive evidence that I think fairly states what paint work damage has 
been caused by X, rather than the repairs needed as part of the claim. And, that it was 
something X did wrong that led to this damage being present. I wouldve expected AIL to 
take steps to confirm and clarify this and I dont think I can say they have to the level Id 
expect here.
So, without this, I dont think I can say AIL have acted fairly when deciding not to cover the 
costs of the repainting in its entirety. As I dont think AIL have acted fairly, Ive then thought 
about what I think AIL should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Ms L back in the position she wouldve 
been, had AIL acted fairly in the first instance.
AIL have already agreed to pay Ms L the additional £20 she is owed under the disturbance 
allowance, plus 8% statutory interest from the date this shouldve been paid, to the date of 
payment. I think this offer is a fair one, that places Ms L back in the position she shouldve 
been in and the 8% interest compensates Ms L fairly for the time she was without these 
funds.
Ive then thought about what I think AIL should do regarding the painting. I think its 
reasonable for me to assume that having to make access through a ceiling, and the removal 
of coving and tiles etc, would create damage to the walls and ceiling that would require 
painting to put things back to the way they wouldve been, before Ms L had needed to claim. 
So, I wouldve expected AIL to cover the costs needed for this. And I cant see that they 
have. And I think this has left Ms L living in a home that hasnt been fully repaired for an 
extended period of time, through no fault of her own.
I also have no substantive evidence that I think makes it clear exactly what painting needed 
is related to the claim repairs, or the poor workmanship of X. Or, that X did fail to carry out 
the repairs in a reasonable manner.
So, because of the above, had AIL acted fairly, I think they wouldve looked to cover the 
costs of the repainting needed in both rooms impacted by the claim repairs. And so, this is 
what I think AIL should do on this occasion. And by covering all of the painting in full, I think 
this fairly reflects the amount of time Ms L was without the painting required to the walls that 
D have accepted would definitely have been impacted by the claim repair.
But I would only expect AIL to pay Ms L upon the receipt of sufficient invoices, which contain 
sufficient information regarding the paint and the work carried out. So, Ms L should look to 
provide this information once the work has been completed, if it still remains outstanding.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms L and Mr Rs complaint about Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Ms L and Mr R £20 plus 8% statutory annual interest from the date the 
disturbance allowance was paid, until the date of payment, if this has not already been done; and
Pay Ms L and Mr R the costs they incur repainting the bathroom and lounge, upon 
receipt of sufficient invoices.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman