DRN-3184547
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain about Barclays Bank UK PLCs decision to send a replacement 
debit card to their previous address.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S held both separate and joint accounts with Barclays. In 2018, Mr S and Mrs 
S moved address and Mr S updated his address and phone number with Barclays, 
assuming this would also change Mrs S residential address as well. But it didnt.
So, when Mrs S requested a new debit card after the expiry of her previous one, this card 
was sent to Mrs S previous address. Mr S and Mrs S were unhappy about this, so they 
raised a complaint.
Mr S and Mrs S were unhappy that Barclays had placed their account at risk by sending a 
new debit card to an address they no longer lived at. And Mr S was unhappy that Barclays 
hadnt made him aware that Mrs S would also need to update her address separately when 
he believes he called them in 2018. Mr S was also unhappy that Barclays had allowed them 
to continue paying for a travel insurance policy which required them to live at the same 
address when Barclays system suggested they didnt. So, he wanted Barclays to apologise 
for their error and change their system to allow one customer named on a joint account to 
update details for the other.
While Barclays investigated Mr S complaint, they called Mr S to discuss this. And Mr S was 
unhappy with the security questions he was asked and thought this opened him up to further 
fraudulent activity.
Barclays responded to Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained both 
customers named on a joint account need to update their details as one isnt authorised to 
do this for the other. So, even though Mr S updated his address, Mrs S didnt. Because of 
this, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong when sending the debit card to the 
previous address although they recognised the worry this wouldve caused. They also 
explained Mr S had updated his address online, rather than on a phone call, so they didnt 
think theyd failed to advise Mr S correctly. So, Barclays didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Mr S and Mrs S remained unhappy with this response, so they referred their 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He recognised the worry Mr S 
and Mrs S wouldve been caused when they realised the debit card had been sent to the 
wrong address. But he didnt think this was because of anything Barclays did wrong. He 
explained hed seen evidence to show Mr S had updated his address and phone number 
online. And he didnt think this would update Mrs Ss details as Barclays confirmed Mrs S 
would need to do this separately as she was a separate customer. So, while he appreciated 
Mr S concern and confusion, he didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more.
Mr S and Mrs S didnt agree. They maintained Mr S had spoken to Barclays on the phone in 
2018 as they didnt have the ability to manage their finances online. So, they maintained 
Barclays shouldve told them Mrs S needed to update her details separately. And they didnt 
think Barclays explanation made sense, as they were allowed to continue with a travel 
insurance policy based on them both living at the same address. And finally, Mr S provided a 
marketing letter addressed to Mrs S at their new address which he thought showed Barclays 
were aware of where Mrs S lived. As Mr S and Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I want to explain what Ive been able to 
consider. Im aware Mr S also had concerns about the security questions he was asked 
when Barclays contacted him about his complaint. Unfortunately, complaints handling and 
any service associated to this is an unregulated activity and something Im unable to 
consider. But even if I was able to do so, this complaint relates to Barclays telephone 
security process. And any complaint about a business process is again something our 
service is unable to decide upon or recommend changes to and this would need to be raised 
with the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr S and Mrs S. I dont doubt 
it wouldve been worrying and upsetting to realise the replacement debit card had been sent 
to their previous address. And as Mr S believed hed updated their address information 
correctly in 2018, I can appreciate why theyd question Barclays actions and hold them 
responsible for the risk placed on their account. But for me to say Barclays were responsible, 
Id need to be satisfied theyd made a purposeful error they couldve foreseen when sending 
the debit card to that address. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Its not in dispute that Mr S changed his address when they moved in 2018. And its not in 
dispute that Mrs S didnt do the same as they were under the impression Mr S updating his 
address would also update the address linked to their joint account. Barclays have confirmed 
this isnt the case and that both customers need to update the address linked to their profile 
and that neither has the authority to do this for the other, in order to safeguard a customers 
account. I think this is a reasonable request from Barclays and it isnt disputed that Mrs S 
didnt do so. 
So, when Mrs S requested a replacement debit card, I dont think I can say Barclays made a 
purposeful error when sending it to her previous address as theyd never been notified of the 
move by Mrs S directly. And because of this, I cant say theyve acted unreasonably.
I appreciate Mr S disputes this and has provided a marketing letter sent to Mrs S at their new 
address. And he feels this proves Barclays were aware of the address change when they 
sent the replacement debit card. But, crucially, this marketing letter isnt dated. And Ive seen 
evidence that shows Mrs S address was updated in May 2021 and marketing letters have 
been sent to her at this new address since then. And Ive also seen that Barclays have 
confirmed marketing letters sent to Mrs S before May 2021 were sent to the previous 
address. 
As the letter isnt dated, Im unable to say for certain that this was sent before Barclays 
changed Mrs S address to the new one. And on the balance of probability, I think its unlikely it was as it isnt disputed that Mrs S didnt contact Barclays to change it and Barclays 
have confirmed they wouldnt update an address without this contact.
Mr S has also referred to the travel insurance policy both he and Mrs S hold with Barclays, 
linked to their account, which states they need to be living at the same address. Hes 
questioned why Barclays would allow him to continue paying this premium if they thought 
they were living separately. And I do understand the point hes raised. But, as with any other 
insurance product, its the customers obligation to notify an insurer if their position has 
changed. As Mr S and Mrs S continued to pay for the policy and use the joint account, I dont 
think it follows that Barclays shouldve queried Mr S and Mrs Ss need for the policy if they 
werent told otherwise. And so, I dont think they necessarily wouldve realised from the 
terms of this policy that Mr S and Mrs S both needed to update their address. And I think its 
more than likely that, if Mr S and Mrs S had needed to use the policy, Barclays wouldve 
accepted a claim in line with the terms of the policy as Mr S wouldve been able to show they 
were living at the same address.
I also recognise Mr S thinks Barclays failed to make him reasonably aware Mrs S needed to 
do so when he changed his address. Mr S has said he called Barclays to update his details 
and felt they shouldve told him this on that call. But Barclays have no record of this call and 
say Mr S updated his details online and have provided evidence to show this.
While I recognise Mr S testimony, Ive seen no evidence to show a call took place. But what 
I have seen is a screenshot of Barclays online system, which shows that Mr S address and 
phone number were updated to the ones Barclays hold on their system in December 2018. 
And I can see this login and activity was linked to Mr S customer number and couldnt have 
been completed without using Mr S PIN reader that wouldve been individual to him and his 
account. So, on the balance of probability based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its most 
likely that Mr S did update his details online. And because of this, I dont think Barclays 
wouldve had the opportunity to explain to Mr S that Mrs S also needed to do the same thing 
in order for her details to be updated. So, I cant say that Barclays failed to advise Mr S and 
Mrs S fairly and because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S and Mrs S were hoping for. But I hope it goes some 
way to explaining why, based on the evidence available to me, I dont think Barclays made a 
purposeful mistake that they were able to avoid on this occasion. Im also glad to see that Mr 
S and Mrs Ss account wasnt compromised following to issuing of the debit to the wrong 
address.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr S and Mrs S complaint about Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman