DRN-3675175
The complaint
Dr K complains about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company (DAS) under her landlord 
home emergency policy, about how DAS investigated a problem with a toilet flush at her 
buy-to-let property.
References to DAS include their agents providing services and dealing with claims under the 
policy.
What happened
In February 2022 Dr K had a problem with a toilet in her buy-to-let property not flushing. She 
contacted DAS, who arranged for an engineer to attend the property the same day. The 
engineer said parts would need to be ordered, which he would need to return to fit. However, 
Dr K said he left the toilet base loose, so she contacted DAS again to raise her concerns. 
DAS disputed the issue was caused by their engineer, but Dr K maintained the problem 
wasnt there before the visit. 
Dr K was also concerned the engineer returned to the property looking for tools he said hed 
left, which Dr K thought unprofessional. Also, hed been reluctant to access the stop cock, as 
he thought it was outside and would require digging to locate (although subsequently it was 
found to be beneath a grille, so the engineer was able to access it). Given her concerns, Dr 
K asked that a different engineer attend. However, the same engineer attended a few days 
later to fit the parts to fix the flush. But he didnt address the issue of the loose toilet base as 
DAS didnt believe hed caused the problem.
Unhappy at what had happened and being left with a loose toilet, Dr K complained to DAS. 
In their final response they partially upheld her complaint. They thought the actions of the 
engineer had been reasonable. They didnt think it was unreasonable for the engineer to 
return to pick up tools he thought hed left. They also said the work on the faulty flush had 
only involved the toilet cistern on top of the toilet base, so the engineer wouldnt have had 
reason to move the basin or remove the bolts securing it to the floor. But DAS accepted they 
hadnt considered Dr Ks request for a different engineer, so upheld that element. In 
recognition of the inconvenience to Dr K, they awarded £30 in compensation.
Unhappy at DASs response, Dr K complained to this service. The main point of her 
complaint was DASs engineer caused the toilet base to become loose. She was also 
unhappy DAS sent the same engineer after shed asked for a different one, and the engineer 
had returned to pick up tools hed left behind. She wanted DAS to compensate her for the 
damage to her toilet and for the inconvenience, or to fix the toilet. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding DAS hadnt acted fairly in not fixing 
the problem with the loose base. She thought it likely the base would have been 
affected by the engineer working on the cistern. Given Dr K reported the issue on the 
day the engineer visited, she thought this consistent with the engineer causing the 
problem. As Dr K had subsequently paid a contractor to fix the loose base (at a cost 
of £95), she thought DAS should reimburse Dr K (with interest from the date Dr K 
paid the cost to the date DAS reimbursed her). The investigator also thought DAS 
should pay Dr K £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
and for sending out the same engineer when shed requested a different one.
DAS disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They said the engineer didnt need to touch the toilet base 
when working on the flush, as it was housed in the cistern on top of the base, which 
would have accessed and removed separately. They thought the loose base was due 
to installation/maintenance issues. They said photos of the toilet indicated it was only 
secured to the floor with sealant and that the base looked to have been packed with 
sealant to make it level with the floor (which they thought looked uneven).
In my findings I considered what Dr K and DAS had said, together with the photographs, 
diagram and case notes provided by DAS and the video footage of the toilet from Dr K. 
Taking all the points into account, I wasnt persuaded the problem of the loose base was the 
result of the DAS engineers visit. As Dr K said she believed the engineer caused the loose 
base, then I thought the onus was on her to show (on the balance of probabilities) thats the 
case. Based on what Id seen so far, I wasnt persuaded it was the case.
Because I reached different conclusions to those of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out 
below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My role here is to decide whether DAS has acted fairly towards Dr K.
The key issue in Dr Ks complaint is whether the DAS engineer, when working on the flush, 
caused damage to the toilet base, leaving it loose. Dr K maintains he did and that the base 
wasnt loose prior to the engineers visit. DAS say the engineer wouldnt have needed to 
touch or move the base to access and work on the flush in the cistern (which was separate 
to the base). DAS also say they think the loose base was due to how it had been installed or 
maintained, as it had been secured to the floor with sealant and packed to make it level (as 
the floor was uneven).
Ive considered carefully what Dr K and DAS have said, together with the photographs, 
diagram and case notes provided by DAS and the video footage of the toilet from Dr K. On 
balance, Im not persuaded the issue with the loose base was caused by the DAS engineer. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Dr K, so Ill set out why Ive come to that conclusion.
Looking at the sequence of events, the engineer came out later the same day the non-
flushing fault was reported by Dr K. The case notes indicate the engineer diagnosed parts 
would need to be ordered and hed need to return to fit them. Given the location of the 
flushing mechanism in the cistern, Im persuaded by the point DAS make about the cistern 
being separate to the toilet base, so the engineer wouldnt have needed to move the toilet 
base to access the cistern. So, he wouldnt have reason to take up the retaining bolts that 
should have secured the base to the floor.
Ive also considered the point made by DAS that the base was only secured to the floor by 
sealant, and it had been packed around the base. Looking at one of the photographs of the 
base, I cant see the retaining bolt that should have been in place. This suggests it was 
either removed but not put back, or it wasnt present (before the engineer attended). Given 
my conclusion about the engineer not needing to remove the base (or the retaining bolts)) to access the cistern, that suggests the former is unlikely. So, it suggests the latter is the more 
likely position. And if the base was only held down by sealant, then Im persuaded by DASs 
argument that would be an installation issue.
Ive also considered the video provided by Dr K, together with the photographs. The former 
shows a horizontal gap in the sealant around the base, which would be consistent with the 
base being loose. Thinking about this, its not clear how (or why) any such gap would have 
been caused by the engineer  particularly given my conclusion he would have had no 
reason to move the base to access the cistern and the flushing mechanism.
 
A further point made by DAS is that the floor looked uneven and the sealant was packed 
around the base to make it level. From the photos and video available, while I can see a 
considerable amount of sealant around the base (notwithstanding the horizontal gap) I cant 
clearly see whether the floor is uneven. So, Im not able to form a view on this point  
although if it were the case, it would support the point about the issue being one of 
installation (or maintenance) of the base.
Taking all these points into account, then Im not persuaded the problem of the loose base 
was the result of the DAS engineers visit. As Dr K has said she believes the engineer 
caused the loose base, then I think the onus is on her to show (on the balance of 
probabilities) thats the case. Based on what Ive seen so far, and my conclusions above, Im 
not persuaded it is the case.
The other issues in Dr Ks complaint relate to DAS sending out the same engineer (when 
shed asked for a different engineer) and his returning to collect tools he said hed left. On 
the first issue, DAS accepted they hadnt considered Dr Ks request, so upheld that part of 
the complaint and awarded £30 in compensation. I think thats reasonable. On the return to 
collect tools the engineer thought he may have left behind, while I would have expected the 
engineer not to have left any tools behind, its something that can happen and I dont think 
its unreasonable to enquire about them. From the DAS case notes, it seems it wasnt the 
case in any event.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I dont uphold Dr Ks 
complaint. 
 
Both Dr K and DAS responded to say they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether DAS have acted fairly towards Dr K.
As both Dr K and DAS responded to say they had nothing further to add, I havent changed 
my mind on the conclusions in my provisional decision. So, my final decision remains 
unchanged, for the same reasons set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Dr Ks complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Dr K to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman