DRN-3983906
The complaint
Ms C complains about fees charged by Colbourne & Company in order to manage her 
investments. 
What happened
In mid 2022 Ms C complained to Colbourne & Company when she heard they had stopped 
providing any regulated activities.
Ms C was unhappy with the service provided as her investments had fallen in value. She 
thought this was because of poor practice by Colbourne & Company and not market forces. 
Ms C asked for a refund of the fees she had been paying to Colbourne & Company to 
manage her investments as there had been no annual reviews or communication for several 
years.  
Colbourne & Company didnt respond to the complaint so one of our Investigators looked 
into what happened. They also didnt receive any substantive response from Colbourne & 
Company so reached out to the platform provider of Ms Cs investments for information.   
Our Investigator upheld the complaint saying that Colbourne & Company should repay a 
total of £1,450 worth of fees that had been charged. They had seen no evidence of an 
ongoing advisory service for which Ms C was being charged. They thought it was reasonable 
to conclude that the fees were charged without justification and should not have been taken 
from Ms Cs investment.
Colbourne & Company didnt respond to our Investigator, so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.
Our rules
When coming to a decision Ive considered the rules set down by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) in the Dispute Resolution Sourcebook (DISP). These are the rules that give 
the Financial Ombudsman powers to resolve complaints.
Colbourne & Company have not replied to requests for information on multiple occasions. 
Nor did they respond to our Investigators view of the complaint explaining how they thought 
it should be resolved. 
One of the objectives of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve complaints 
informally and at the earliest possible stage, this is reflected in the rules:
DISP 3.5.1 The Ombudsman will attempt to resolve complaints at the earliest possible stage 
and by whatever means appear to him to be most appropriate, including mediation and 
investigation. 
The rules also allow me to reach a decision on limited information: 
DISP 3.5.9 The Ombudsman may: 
(3) reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take into account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested
Im satisfied this rule applies here as Colbourne & Company have failed to provide the 
information requested or respond in any substantive way. 
Alongside this the rules allow the fixing of time limits for a response:
DISP 3.5.13 The Ombudsman may fix (and extend) time limits for any aspect of the 
consideration of a complaint by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Colbourne & Company were first made aware of this complaint in August 2022 by email and 
again in a letter sent by recorded delivery. 
On 16 November 2022 Colbourne & Company confirmed please use this E-Mail Address 
which is what we have done for communications from that date on at least six occasions. 
On 16 December 2022 Colbourne & Company said I will get back to you within the timescale 
but this didnt happen.
We have not been provided with any detailed reason for the delay in response other than 
several one-line email messages with reasons for personal delays, but nothing to suggest 
why they couldnt respond to the complaint or our requests for information. The last of these 
was provided on the agreed email address on 13 January 2023. Since then two more emails 
have been sent by our Investigator without a response. 
Our Investigator reminded Colbourne & Company of their obligations to provide information 
and also gave warning that if there was no response an assessment would be made on the 
evidence currently held.
Im satisfied time limits for information requests were appropriately set and communicated 
with Colbourne & Company. I also dont think the reasons provided, based on the lack of 
detail, are exceptional or warrant any further extension of time. Emails have been sent to the 
address declared on the FCA register for Colbourne & Company and we have previously 
received responses using those details.
Because of the non-cooperation of Colbourne & Company Im basing my decision on the 
information I have been provided with which is allowed under the rules: 
DISP 3.5.14 If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may:
(1) proceed with consideration of the complaint, and
(2) Include provision for any material distress or material inconvenience caused by that 
failure in any award which he decides to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C took advice from Colbourne & Company in 2009 and since 2018 she was charged an 
advisor specified fee on seven occasions which ordinarily relates to advice being given by 
their adviser. Ive referred to this as an ongoing advisory fee throughout.Due to the non-response from Colbourne & Company I dont have a copy of the advisory 
service agreement so cant say exactly what service Ms C was paying for. 
What I have seen is that during the period Ms C was being charged her investment strategy 
remained the same even when dropping in value. There have been no fund switches or 
additional investments. Also Ms C maintained the same level of withdrawals that were 
agreed when the investment was taken out. 
These things in isolation dont necessarily mean that the investments werent being 
reviewed, however Ive not seen any evidence this was happening. Id expect Colbourne & 
Company to have contacted Ms C sometime between 2018 and 2021 to discuss her 
investments and see if they were still meeting her needs  at a minimum, providing advice 
for which it appears she has been charged for. However Ive not seen any evidence this 
occurred and Ms C says this never happened. 
Ive considered everything Ive been provided with and also taken into account the failure of 
Colbourne & Company to provide any information. Having done so Im satisfied, on the 
balance of probabilities, Ms C didnt receive the advisory service she was being charged for. 
By charging fees and not providing a service I think Colbourne & Company have not fulfilled 
their regulatory obligations and also not acted in accordance with the principles set out by 
the FCA. Therefore the total of £1,450 should be refunded to Ms C.
The fees were taken from Ms Cs investment by way of an auto-sell function where units 
were sold in order to pay the fees to Colbourne & Company. Ms C has since moved her 
investments, so it isnt possible to replace those units from where they were taken.
I think the most fair and reasonable way of putting things right is to refund the fees to Ms C 
allowing her to add the funds to her current investments if possible. Colbourne & Company 
should also pay 8% simple interest from the time each fee was charged until they are 
refunded. 
Ms C has also been put to a level of distress and inconvenience by what happened. Ms C 
has been receiving treatment for anxiety and depression which she says has been made 
worse by the situation with her investments. Our Investigator thought Colbourne & Company 
should pay £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ive considered everything that happened including the worry about the fall in value, the time 
and effort it has taken to get a resolution, and the effect this has had on Ms C. Having done 
so I think Colbourne & Company should pay Ms C £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
I sent Colbourne & Company two emails explaining this and setting out my thoughts with 
deadlines for a response with any comments. I also reminded Colbourne & Company about 
our powers for setting time limits and our ability to come to a decision on limited information 
as Ive explained above. I received a one line email response with reasons for personal 
delays, but nothing to suggest why Colbourne & Company couldnt respond to the complaint 
or our requests for information.
Putting things right
Colbourne & Company should refund the following fees adding 8% simple interest from the 
date of each charge until the date of refund:
Amount Date of charge£150 13/02/2018
£200 18/02/2019
£200 21/08/2019
£200 20/12/2019
£200 08/04/2020
£200 10/07/2020
£300 01/03/2023
Colbourne & Company should also pay Ms C £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Colbourne & Company should take the actions Ive outlined above in paying compensation 
to Ms C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman