DRN-3763896
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the time it has taken, and the treatment they have 
received, from ITI Capital Limited (ITI) when their account was migrated over from a 
previous firm. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mr and Mrs Hs share account, which they held with a previous firm that had 
gone into administration, was transferred over to ITI. Mr and Mrs H experienced problems 
with the onboarding of their joint account  the account was set up in Mr Hs name only  
shares and/or cash were shown with incorrect values, there is no audit trail and the history 
was impossible to understand. 
To put the matter right they would like a transaction schedule that showed the account tallied 
with when it was transferred over from the previous business plus all the dividends since. 
They wanted the joint account to be updated with the correct details. 
Their dealings with ITI had been difficult, stressful and Mr and Mrs H were going to transfer 
their account to another broker.
Our investigator who considered the complaint said, briefly;
ITI had told this service it was correcting its system to show the account in joint 
names. 
The three shareholdings were on the account but one of the three shareholdings was 
not visible to Mr and Mrs H because of the two systems used by ITI and that 
particular stock wasnt tradeable on one of them. Dividends had been paid and were 
to be transferred to Mr and Mrs Hs account.
The investigator wanted ITI to send Mr and Mrs H a statement of account showing 
holdings and dividend payments.
He also recommended that ITI pay £250 for the length of time it had taken to resolve 
the issues and their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H were happy with the proposed outcome provided they received the details 
from ITI that had been asked for by the investigator. They also said that for an initial time 
period transfers to other brokers were offered free of charge, but they werent able to take 
advantage of this because of the incompetence and delays of ITI. 
ITI sent Mr and Mrs H a statement of their account since its migration from the previous firm 
showing all transactions including dividends.
Mr and Mrs H said they found the statement difficult to reconcile. They wanted the 
compensation paid as recommended by the investigator. One dividend was missing, and 
they wanted ITI to pass the details of their account to a new broker to ensure a smooth 
transfer which they would transfer when dividends were received on two of the holdings that 
were due to be paid in May 2022.
The investigator passed the above request onto ITI, but it didnt respond to the investigator 
other than sending the statement to Mr and Mrs H.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision. 
In the meantime, ITI informed Mr and Mrs H it was closing its retail business, so                 
Mr and Mrs H needed to transfer to another broker. Mr and Mrs H said the offboarding 
information provided by ITI and their online account didnt match, the shareholdings in the 
online account were incorrect, they didnt know if the cash value was correct. They hadnt 
been given any information about a demerger/share consolidation which had happened to 
one of their shareholdings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator and Im going 
to uphold the complaint. I dont think ITI has behaved reasonably however I think the £250 
compensation recommended by the investigator is broadly fair and reasonable. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Mr and Mrs Hs access to their account
I dont know the size of the client base that ITI took over from the previous provider that went 
into administration. But I think its likely that the new additional accounts and investments will 
have had an impact on ITIs capacity and ability to deal with new customers and increased 
requests. And its evident there were IT issues. 
However, its clear Mr and Mrs H have had a very frustrating time during which they havent 
been confident the account information and records they received from ITI was right. They 
had the initial upset of the account being set up in the sole name of Mr H rather than joint 
names. And there was confusion about what cash and/or shares were showing correctly on 
the account(s). 
We asked Mr and Mrs H whether they attempted to carry out any trades during this time, but 
they told us that as they couldnt view their online account, this wasnt possible.                  
Mr and Mrs H have said they intended on moving their account to another provider but 
couldnt start the process when they were not sure of their shareholdings or cash position 
with ITI. However, this position has now changed as ITI is closing its retail business. 
In any relationship between a consumer and a business there are always opportunities for 
errors or misunderstandings. And it is how a business responds to that that is important. And 
while Ive concluded ITI hasnt behaved reasonably I dont think it was ITIs deliberate 
intention to cause Mr and Mrs H the frustration it evidently did as I think it was most likely 
working under stretched circumstances.
Putting things right
That being said, its clear Mr and Mrs H have had a very difficult time during the process and 
Im sure feel stressed and exhausted by the whole affair which has lasted since July 2020 and is still not satisfactorily resolved. The investigator acknowledged this by recommending 
an award of £250 for the upset Mr and Mr H had been caused. 
Mr and Mrs H have also asked for a statement of reconciliation of their account so they can 
identify the cash/dividend trail and schedule of what has happened to their shareholdings 
including corporate actions plus dividends. 
ITI should provide an updated, full, and correct statement of account from the time of its 
receipt by ITI and which should include cash, dividends, and corporate actions. ITI should 
also transfer their account to Mr and Mrs Hs chosen broker at no cost to them and which I 
understand is now being offered as part of the account closure process of its retail business.
The statements Mr and Mrs H have so far received only detail two of their three 
shareholdings. They havent been able to reconcile their holding in Tadeka which ITI told us 
wasnt tradeable on one of its systems. ITI should provide a statement for the capital and 
income account of that shareholding. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and ITI Capital Limited should put the matter right as Ive 
detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman