DRN-1585500
 
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Virgin Money plc didn't warn her that a 0% promotional offer on her 
credit card account was coming to an end and that, as a consequence, she incurred interest 
on the outstanding debt.
What happened
In June 2016 Mrs D applied for a Virgin Money credit card and transferred a balance from 
another card to it. At the time Virgin Money was offering 0% interest on balance transfers for 
32 months. Mrs D set up a direct debit to make monthly payments, but otherwise didn't use 
the card or the account. 
In or about July 2019 Mrs D noticed that her direct debit payments to Virgin Money had 
increased significantly. That was because the interest-free period had expired in March 
2019. She said she should have been warned that the promotional offer was about to come 
to an end so that she could make other arrangements.
Virgin Money said that the expiry date of the offer was included on Mrs D's statements and 
that it was for her to check them. It also said that it had written to Mrs D in January 2019 to 
tell her that the promotional rate would end at the beginning of March. 
Mrs D referred the complaint to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He 
thought that Virgin Money had treated Mrs D fairly and that it was for her to keep an eye on 
the account and to check her statements. He didn't recommend that Virgin Money 
compensate Mrs D. She didn't accept the investigator's findings and asked that an 
ombudsman review them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what's fair and reasonable, I must have regard to, amongst other things, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) took over the regulation of most banking services in 
November 2009 and consumer credit from April 2014. Until November 2009 most banks 
subscribed to the Banking Code. That code included a requirement that subscribers would 
tell customers when an introductory offer on their credit card was about to come to an end. 
Current regulations require credit card providers to tell customers if they are about to 
increase their interest rate for reasons based on the perceived risk of a particular customer; 
and in some cases (although not here) they must remind customers of the conditions to be 
met for a promotional rate to be maintained. I note too that banks must remind savers when 
a promotional rate is about to end. Many credit card providers do send their customers 
reminders.  In my view, therefore, it's certainly arguable that credit card providers should remind 
customers that a promotional rate on a credit card is coming to an end. Such a reminder is 
likely to be more effective if it's sent as a separate communication, rather than just being 
included in a monthly statement.
In this case, however, I'm satisfied that Virgin Money's records show that it did send a 
reminder to Mrs D at the end of January 2019 that the 0% interest rate on the balance 
transfer would be coming to an end at the beginning of March - that is, about four to five 
weeks later. I note too that the end date was included on Mrs D's monthly statements, 
although in the circumstances I can understand why she might not have checked them; 
there's generally no obligation on a customer to do so.
Mrs D's main complaint is that Virgin Money didn't remind her the 0% promotion was coming 
to an end. For the reasons I've set out, however, I believe it did. I don't believe it could 
reasonably be expected to do any more.              
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Virgin Money plc to do anything further to resolve Mrs 
D's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs 
D to accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman