DRN-1423889
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy alongside a credit card.
What happened
Mr W took out a credit card with Lloyds and at the same time he took out a PPI policy to 
protect his repayments. A successful claim on the policy would have covered his repayments 
for periods of time if he lost his job or if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness.
When Mr W complained to Lloyds that the policy was mis-sold it didnt agree. Lloyds also 
considered if any excess commissions and profit share had been charged on the premiums 
and said that the credit card Mr W took out didnt fall within the rules and guidance 
introduced about this. Therefore, no refund for excess commission was due.
Mr W wasnt happy with what Lloyds had said so brought his complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr W disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at his complaint.  
Mr W is represented by a third party. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and I shall explain why.
Mr W said initially he applied for the credit card by post but has more recently indicated in 
was in branch. He doesnt recall being given a choice about taking out the PPI nor being 
given any information being provided about the PPI terms and conditions and its costs. Mr W 
says he didnt need the policy as he had a secure job which wouldve paid sick pay and also 
had some savings. So, he says he would have rejected the PPI if hed known it was optional. 
 
Lloyds has said it has very limited data about the credit card and PPI. It believes the card 
and PPI may have been taken out between 1997 and 2000. It has assumed this to have 
been in branch. Whilst it doesnt have the actual application form completed by Mr W it has 
provided a sample of the form that would have been used at the time. 
From the information provided it seems Mr W met all the basic criteria to be eligible to take 
out the policy, such as his age and being in employment.The application form that was completed would have had a separate section that had to be 
selected to take out the PPI. This would have been highlighted and a separate selection 
made if the process took place in branch; if it was by post Mr W would still have had to 
separately select to take out the PPI. 
In the selection section it is indicated that the cost of the PPI is 72p for every £100 of 
balance on the card and the benefit was 10% of the balance outstanding at the time of claim 
for a maximum of one year, for unemployment and sickness. 
I think it was clear Mr W had a choice whether or not to take out the PPI from the separate 
section that would have been completed. And he would have signed the form to confirm all 
the details on the form were correct. So at the time I think Mr W chose to take it out and it 
looks like he wanted this type of cover.
At the time of completing the application form Mr W may not have clearly been aware of or 
understood all of the restrictions that applied to the PPI. He would have been provided with 
the terms and conditions but its quite possible the information he had when choosing to take 
out the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been.
But Ive not seen anything to suggest he would have been affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover contained in the terms and conditions. As he wasnt caught by 
any restrictions of the policy, I dont think better information about these relating to the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
The cost of the policy is indicated on the application form. This could possibly have been 
made slightly clearer, but I dont think at the time it would have stopped Mr W from taking out 
the policy as it seems it was affordable. The premium also appeared each month on Mr Ws 
credit card statement so if he had been concerned about the cost he could have queried this 
and cancelled the policy. He should have been aware of the benefits as they were indicated 
on the form, even if not discussed any further.
I note Mr W says he had employment benefits and some savings, so he didnt have a need 
for the PPI. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any work benefits he would 
have received and for a longer period. So, this would have allowed the income from his work 
benefits to pay for other household expenses and living costs. 
Mr W says he had around £1,000 in savings, but again if he was unemployed or off work 
sick he would have needed this to provide day to day living costs. No information has been 
provided to show Mr W had any other insurance or ways to pay for his living expenses if he 
wasnt working. So, I think the policy would have provided a useful benefit to Mr W if he had 
needed to claim.
Taking all this into account it follows that I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Ive also considered if any commission and profit share that would have been part of the PPI 
premiums would need to be refunded by Lloyds. However, the rules and guidance put in 
place by the Financial Conduct Authority relating to this only affect credit taken out after 
6 April 2007 or if taken out before this date, then still running on 6 April 2008. It appears 
Mr Ws credit card is not caught by these dates therefore these rules do not apply and no 
excess commission or profit share is due to be refunded.
 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think the PPI policy 
was mis-sold by the Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman