DRN-3135740
The complaint
Mrs B complains that esure Insurance Limited wouldnt settle a claim for water damage 
under her home insurance.
esure used a third party company to investigate Mrs Bs claim. For the avoidance of doubt, 
any reference to esure includes its agents, including the claims investigator.
What happened
Mrs B renewed her home insurance policy with esure in March 2020. In February 2021, she 
discovered a major water leak in her house. She made a claim to esure for the significant 
water damage resulting from the leak. 
esure investigated the claim. It found that the house hadnt been occupied since November 
2020, four months before the leak. This was a breach of the policy terms so it wouldnt pay 
Mrs Bs claim. 
Mrs B disputed this. She said, in summary:
She renovated her house in August/September 2020 ahead of selling it.
She put most of her furniture and belongings into storage at the start of August 2020.
Since then shed lived primarily at her partners house.
While the house was being renovated she worked there once a week and have 
frequented the property during renovation for most weekends.
She put the house on the market on 18 November 2020. She removed the rest of her 
belongings from the house so it could be viewed vacant.
She accepted an offer on the house on 3 December 2020.
She moved a few pieces of furniture  a bed, sofa, tv, and microwave  back into the 
house after she accepted the offer so she could continue to work there and stay 
overnight when necessary.
She didnt move out of the house permanently until 13 February 2021, just a few 
weeks before her sale was due to complete. 
She discovered the leak when she and her partner visited the house on 21 February 
2021. 
esure reviewed this. It offered Mrs B £175 to apologise for some communication failures but 
stood by its original decision to decline her claim. Its experts believed the leak had been 
caused by a frozen pipe, however it said weather data for the period 13 to 21 February 2021 
showed warm temperatures. So esure didnt believe the leak could have happened after Mrs 
B said she moved out of the house.
Mrs B was unhappy with this response so brought her complaint to us. She wants esure to 
settle her claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that, under the policy terms, Mrs Bs house was unoccupied and unfurnished when 
the leak happened. She was also satisfied that this term was clearly highlighted in Mrs Bs 
policy documents. As a result, she didnt think it was unfair for esure to decline her claim.
Mrs B disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 7 of Mrs Bs policy (Escape of water/burst pipes) says: We will not pay for loss or 
damage if Your House is Unfurnished or Unoccupied. esure says this exclusion is designed 
to protect it against situations like this. It believes that if the house had been occupied, the 
leak wouldve been identified and stopped sooner, thereby mitigating the damage. I dont 
think this is unreasonable. 
Mrs Bs policy booklet defines unoccupied. I note that Mrs Bs March 2020 renewal 
documents drew explicit attention to this definition:
 When Your House is not being lived in by You or any member of Your Household 
for more than 30 consecutive days. By lived in, We mean staying in and sleeping 
overnight for at least 3 nights in a row every week. Visits to check on Your Home do 
not constitute occupancy.
Unfurnished is:
When Your House does not contain sufficient furniture for normal living purposes 
and is in this condition for more than 30 consecutive days.
I think both definitions are clear and unambiguous.
During esures investigation, Mrs Bs estate agent confirmed the house had been fully vacant 
for viewings in November 2020. Mrs B said the only furniture in the house after it was sold in 
December 2020 was a bed and a sofa (with the plastic wrapping still on). I dont think this 
can reasonably be considered sufficient furniture for normal living purposes.
More importantly, Mrs B told us she only slept in the house once a week and some 
weekends. This doesnt meet the policy requirement of staying in and sleeping overnight for 
at least 3 nights in a row every week. 
Mrs B also told us that a neighbour had a key to her house and checked it most days. 
However, I dont see why this would have been necessary if Mrs B had been living there 
regularly. In any case, the policy is clear that visits to check on your Home do not constitute 
occupancy.
I think its also worth noting that Mrs B says she moved out of the house eight days before 
she discovered the leak. However, she didnt tell esure that shed moved. Her policy said 
she needed to tell esure if she changed address.
So Im satisfied that the house was both unoccupied and unfurnished from at least 
November 2020. The question then becomes: was it fair for esure to rely on the policy 
exclusion to decline the claim?Ive reviewed esures investigation. This was thorough and its conclusions are reasonable. 
Ive also reviewed the weather data from the weather station nearest to where Mrs B lives. I 
think this is inconclusive. The temperature did drop below freezing on the night of 13/14 
February then, as esure said, got warmer for the rest of the week. 
So I dont completely agree with esure when it says the leak couldnt have happened after 
Mrs B moved out permanently  its possible the pipe froze the night of 13/14 February. But 
at the very least, I agree with esure that the leak would have been discovered and the 
damage mitigated much earlier if the house had been occupied. In the circumstances, I think 
esures decision to rely on the exclusion was fair.
Mrs B didnt tell esure about the renovations to her house, that it would be unfurnished and 
unoccupied both while it was on the market and until completion, and that shed moved out 
permanently in February 2021. At the very least, Id have expected her to have discussed 
her cover with esure given she wasnt able to meet the unoccupied and unfurnished terms.
Having carefully considered all the evidence, Im satisfied that esures decision to decline the 
claim was reasonable.
esure accepted that its communication with Mrs B at the start of her claim was, at times, 
poor. It agreed to pay her £175 for this. For the avoidance of doubt, I think this was fair.
Ive got a lot of sympathy for Mrs B. This was a horrible situation and  as esures 
investigator made clear  theres no question this was a genuine claim. I also know this 
would have been an incredibly stressful time for her, trying to deal with the significant water 
damage and the insurance claim at the same time as trying to complete the house sale. 
But I need to decide whether esure applied its terms fairly. Based on everything Ive seen, I 
think it did. I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman