DRN-4104292
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society has not provided an adequate explanation 
of what went wrong when it made an error in recording transactions he made on his ISA 
portfolio.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I dont intend to repeat them 
in detail here. In summary:
- Mr W opened a new ISA with Nationwide, and then made a series of transactions 
between, into, and out of his Nationwide ISA accounts
- Nationwide made an error in recording those transactions, leading to Mr Ws 
remaining annual ISA allowance for the 2021/2022 tax year showing as lower than it 
should have been
- Mr W flagged this with Nationwide, who provided several explanations regarding 
what it felt had gone wrong, rectified the mistake, and ultimately paid Mr W £150 
compensation
- Mr W remained unhappy with Nationwides explanations and so referred his 
complaint to our service
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, they recommended that 
Nationwide consider any further evidence Mr W had  Mr W said he had evidence which  
contradicted the explanations Nationwide had given so far  and pay him an additional £50 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by the error. 
Nationwide considered the further information from Mr W, but remained satisfied that it had 
provided an appropriate explanation of what had gone wrong. It did though agree to pay the 
additional £50 to Mr W. Mr W remains unsatisfied with Nationwides explanations, which he 
feels are illogical, hes concerned that the error that affected him may have wider 
implications for other customers of Nationwide and feels that Nationwide should have sought 
his direct input into resolving what went wrong at a much earlier stage.
As no agreement could be reached to resolve this complaint it has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that what Nationwide has now offered to do is an appropriate 
resolution to this complaint. 
There appears to be no dispute here that Nationwide made an error in recording the 
transactions Mr W carried out in relation to his ISA allowance. Nationwide accepted that an 
error was made and provided a detailed explanation of what it considers went wrong. I 
appreciate that Mr W does not think that explanation is sufficient, it appears he considers 
that there is a wider issue with Nationwides systems. But my role here is not to audit 
Nationwides processes and procedures or to make wider findings about how any procedural 
problem may affect Nationwides customers.
My role here is to consider the individual impact on Mr W and whether Nationwide has taken 
appropriate steps to put right any issues with his accounts. Im carefully considered the 
explanations Nationwide has set out, and Mr Ws comments. And, overall, Im satisfied that 
Nationwide has now done what it needs to. Initially, it took steps to rectify its error, provided 
an explanation as to what it thought had gone wrong, and took steps to recognise the impact 
of that mistake on Mr W by offering compensation.
Following our Investigators findings, Nationwide then conducted a further review of Mr Ws 
additional comments, but was satisfied it had already dealt with the issues Mr W was raising 
in an appropriate level of detail. Having looked at what both sides have said Im also 
satisfied that is the case.  
Mr W does not have to agree with Nationwides explanation, but I consider that Nationwide 
has taken appropriate steps to explain the error to Mr W and to consider any points he 
wanted to make. Nationwide has now agreed to pay Mr W a further £50 to recognise the 
impact of its error and Im satisfied thats a reasonable resolution to this complaint. I wont be 
asking Nationwide to provide any further explanation or detail regarding what went wrong.
Putting things right
Nationwide should pay Mr W £50.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman