DRN-4310363
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Personal 
Finance has dealt with a claim he made to it in relation to replacement doors and windows 
supplied and fitted by a third party P.
Hitachi provided finance for the work and Mr W brought his claim under the connected 
lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
Mr W engaged P to fit replacement windows and a door at a cost of £6,987. He paid a 
deposit of £2,000 with the balance being covered by a fixed sum loan agreement from 
Hitachi, arranged through P.
Unfortunately, following installation Mr W started having problems with the combined window 
and door. Attempts to have P rectify the problems ultimately failed and Mr W lost faith in P. 
He subsequently turned to Hitachi to highlight the issues with the installation and claimed a 
refund on the basis that P hadnt performed its services to a reasonable standard.
After a short delay Hitachi responded to Mr Ws claim. It attempted to resolve matters by 
liaising with P, with a view to carrying out further remedial work. This attempt was 
unsuccessful. In its final response letter Hitachi said it would consider a price reduction 
based on the cost of a third party rectifying the outstanding problems. Hitachi also said it 
would consider any out-of-pocket expenses Mr W could demonstrate hed incurred. And it 
said it would pay Mr W compensation of £50 to reflect the delays hed experienced.
Mr W had by that point already settled the loan and had referred his complaint to us. During 
our investigation, Hitachi offered to reduce the contract price by £350, which Mr W declined.
Our investigator noted the relevant provisions of section 75 and of the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA) meant that Mr W had a claim and that he could bring it against Hitachi. She 
also noted Mr W had obtained a third party inspection that supported his position, and 
concluded that Hitachi was likely to liable to Mr W in his breach of contract claim. The 
available evidence indicated P hadnt carried out the installation to the required standard 
under the CRA. To settle matters she proposed that Hitachi apply a price reduction of 35%, 
refunding any resulting overpayment to Mr W with interest.
Mr W said that while the proposal didnt address all of his claim, hed be willing to accept it 
as a way of resolving matters. Hitachi said it wanted to get comments from P before 
responding, and that it would reply by the date the investigator had specified. However, that 
date passed without any further submissions from Hitachi and the case has been passed to 
me for review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator noted, the arrangements between Mr W, Hitachi, and P meet the 
requirements of section 75 in terms of both financial limits and structure. Mr W has a claim; 
he considers P to be in breach of contract because P failed to perform the installation with 
reasonable skill and care as required under the CRA and incorporated into the contract 
between them. Under section 75 he has a like claim against Hitachi. And hes provided 
evidence  in the form of photos, correspondence and the third party inspection  in support 
of that claim.
None of this is really in dispute. Hitachi has already said it would consider a price reduction 
in recognition of the costs of rectifying the problems caused by the installation. Our 
investigator made a proposal as to the amount of that price reduction, which Mr W indicated 
hed be willing to accept. That sum (which for the avoidance of doubt equates to £2,445.45) 
seems to me to be a fair way to recognise Hitachis potential liability and settle the dispute. 
In the absence of any further argument from Hitachi as to why another amount would be 
more appropriate, Ive no reason to propose a different sum.
Im conscious our investigator also proposed that Hitachi pay interest on the amount in 
question. That was to take account of the fact that Mr W settled the loan in April 2022, 
paying more than he would have needed to had the price reduction been in place at that 
time. I think its fair that I include this in my award, to reflect the period Mr W has been 
without the use of that money.
In terms of the inconvenience Mr W has experienced due to Hitachis handling of his claim, I 
note Hitachi has accepted it didnt deal with things as promptly as it could have. It suggested 
it would send him £50 in this respect. I think that amount, in addition to the interest proposal 
Ive already outlined above, is a fair way for Hitachi to recognise Mr Ws time and trouble. If 
Hitachi hasnt already paid the £50 to Mr W, it should now do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. To settle it, I direct Mitsubishi HC Capital 
UK Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finance to take the following steps. Noting Mr Ws 
concern over getting the necessary remedial work done before the winter, it should do so 
within 28 days of receiving Mr Ws acceptance of this decision.
1. pay Mr W £2,445.45, representing the value of the price reduction
2. pay interest on the amount in 1. at an annual rate of 8% simple, calculated from 25 
April 2022 (being the date Mr W settled his loan) until the date it pays this settlement. 
If Hitachi deducts tax from this interest, it should provide Mr W with the appropriate 
tax deduction certificate, should he ask for one
3. if it hasnt already done so, pay Mr W £50 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced due to the delay in dealing with his claim, as set out in 
Hitachis letter dated 5 April 2023
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman