DRN-4087560
The complaint
Mr C complained about the service provided by Cofunds Limited. He said Cofunds sold 
down units from his investments held within an ISA, to cover its management fees and it 
shouldnt have done.   
What happened
In August 2015, Mr C opened a stocks and shares ISA with Cofunds. When he did this, 
a cash account was set up to run alongside the investments that he would hold. Under 
the terms given at the time Mr C signed up for the ISA, any management fees would first 
be deducted from any cash balance held within the cash account. If there was not 
enough in the account to cover the fees, then units would be sold down from one of the 
investments to cover it. 
In May 2018, Cofunds merged with Aegon. There was a migration of all Cofunds 
accounts over to Aegon. As part of this, Mr C was given a new general investment 
account (GIA). Cofunds also explained that a cash facility was provided with the ISA too. 
Mr C said he first noticed that units were being sold to pay management fees, ignoring 
the previous arrangement he held where the fees would be taken out of his cash 
account. Mr C said he expected the fees to be taken out of his GIA account. He 
complained to Cofunds about this.  
Cofunds said it provided a letter, a summary booklet and terminology guide to Mr C in 
December 2017 that it said explained all the service changes that would be taking place in 
2018 following the merger. It said under the old arrangements management charges would 
be taken from a cash account by default. If there was not enough cash in the account, then it 
would sell units to cover the fees. 
Cofunds said under the new arrangements from May 2018, it introduced the GIA for Mr C. It 
also provided a cash facility with the ISA. It said management fees would only be covered by 
the GIA if Mr C had nominated that this account would take the charges. It said the terms 
and conditions of the ISA from May 2018, explains this. It said as no instruction was received 
by Mr C on this, units were sold to cover the management fees. It didnt feel it had done 
anything wrong here, and said it had clearly explained the new arrangements within its 
documentation that it sent to Mr C. 
Mr C wasnt happy with Cofunds response. He said he didnt receive the letter or summary 
booklet in the post. He said he was unaware that he needed to provide an instruction to 
Cofunds to set things up for management fees to be taken from his GIA. Mr C complained to 
our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She 
concluded that Cofunds didnt explain how the new structure differed from the previous 
arrangement. She thought Mr C would not have been aware of the subtle difference, that 
ultimately led to management fees being paid for my units being sold.
Cofunds didnt agree and said the summary booklet sent out to Mr C adequately 
explained the process that he would have had to go through. It felt its literature was clear. 
Cofunds asked for an ombudsman review and so Mr Cs complaint comes to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Mr Cs complaint. These are my findings that explain why:
Mr C has held a stocks and shares ISA with Cofunds since 2015. For the first 
couple of years, I can see that Cofunds were selling units to cover its 
management fees.
Mr C says he became aware of this and deposited money into the cash account 
in 2017 to cover the fees. I think it is clear from this point and from what Mr C has 
said, that he wanted to pay his management fees through cash held on account 
and not from units being sold from his investments. 
Mr C says he thought the management fees would be taken out of his GIA 
account. This is the account Cofunds set up for him once the new arrangements 
following the merger took place. Cofunds on the other hand have said its 
documentation was clear about what would happen, and he should have set up 
an instruction to make this happen. Instead, under the new terms it had to sell 
units to pay the management fees, because there wasnt enough money in the 
cash facility linked to the ISA. 
Mr C says he did not receive the documentation that Cofunds are referring to. But 
I dont think I need to make a finding on this and what happened here, as even if 
Mr C had received all the documentation, I dont think it would have changed 
anything. I have read through the documents provided by Cofunds, and I dont 
think it has been made clear that Mr C needed to contact Cofunds to set up an 
instruction for it to take the management fee out of his GIA. 
I can see that the terms and conditions does explain where management fees will 
be paid from and that it will sell units if cash is not available for it to use. But I 
dont think it makes clear that Mr C would need to put in an instruction to 
nominate his GIA as the one that Cofunds can take the management fees from. 
Mr C was used to this happening by default, and I cant see anywhere, where 
Cofunds has clearly informed him that this arrangement had changed for him. I 
think it needed to provide clarity to Mr C when it was looking to migrate accounts, 
about what was needed from him if he wanted to pay his management fees from 
the GIA. If Cofunds had made it clear to Mr C that he would need to put in an instruction to 
nominate his GIA account to pay for his management fees or put money into the 
cash facility, I think Mr C would have done this sooner than he did. There is 
enough shown in his past dealings with Cofunds that shows he wanted to do this. 
And I can see that he had a cash balance on his GIA that would have covered 
the management fee from the outset. 
Looked at overall, I am not persuaded Cofunds provided clear enough information to Mr C 
about providing an instruction that it takes its management fee from his GIA. Because of 
this, Cofunds has sold units from Mr Cs investment, something Mr C didnt want it to do. 
So, I think it needs to put things right here.
I also need to recognise that it would have been stressful for Mr C to deal with trying to put 
things right here with Cofunds. I think all of this would have caused him some distress and 
inconvenience. 
So, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and Cofunds needs to now look to put things right.  
Putting things right
Cofunds needs to put Mr C back into a position he wouldve been in if it had provided clearer 
information to him. I think if it had done this, Mr C would have provided an instruction that it 
take its management fee from his GIA. With this being the case Cofunds will need to:
Repurchase the units it has sold to cover management fees since May 2018 when 
the new arrangements came into place up to 23 March 2020 when Mr C put in an 
instruction  so long as Mr C had sufficient funds in his GIA to cover the fee.
If at the point of selling the units, Mr C didnt have sufficient funds to cover all of the 
fee then those units sold should remain sold because this wouldve happened, if the 
information provided by Cofunds was clearer. 
Mr C should receive a breakdown of these fees together with what was sold and 
what was repurchased.
Pay Mr C £200 payment for the distress and inconvenience he would have felt by 
dealing with this.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint about Cofunds Limited. I direct Cofunds Limited to pay 
compensation as I have described above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman