DRN-3920023
The complaint
Mr C complains that Devitt Insurance Services Limited mishandled his European breakdown 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and of the complaint is a motorcycle, first registered in 2007. 
Mr C acquired it in about March 2021 (according to the policy documents).
For the year from March 2022, Mr C used Devitt as an intermediary between him and his 
motorbike insurer.
In June 2022, Mr C asked Devitt to make some changes to his cover. He added breakdown 
insurance including European cover at a cost of about £50.00. The breakdown insurer was 
different from the motorbike insurer.
In mid-July 2022, Mr C took the motorbike to a part of Europe where he speaks the language 
and has friends. Unfortunately, the bike had an electrical issue. So he called Devitt. Devitt 
incorrectly said he didnt have European breakdown cover.
Mr C arranged with friends to take the bike to a garage for repair.
In late July 2022,  Mr C complained to Devitt that it had made a mistake. A few days later, 
Devitt called to offer £100.00 compensation for the inconvenience caused. Unhappy with 
that, Mr C contacted us without delay.
Devitt didnt send a final response within eight weeks after the complaint in late July 2022, so 
we began to investigate the complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Devitt had responded fairly to the complaint.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He did not get the service that he paid for.
We should imagine that this situation had been an accident.
He needed to come back into the UK, not knowing if the motorbike was insured if 
anything happened again.
We should imagine what wouldve happened if he hadnt had friends in the area.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service looks at a consumers complaint about the regulated 
activities of a regulated financial firm. Where we uphold a complaint about an unfair act or 
omission, we consider its impact on that consumer and we look to direct compensation or 
other redress to try to put that right.
We dont assess compensation at a level intended to deter or punish unfair acts or 
omissions. We dont assess compensation by reference to potential consequences, even if 
we can imagine that the act or omission couldve had serious or dangerous consequences.
In my view, the breakdown was bound to cause Mr C some inconvenience and upset. What 
shouldve happened is that Devitt confirmed that Mr C had cover and advised him how to get 
help under that cover. I find it likely that the breakdown insurer wouldve arranged transport 
to a local garage.
I accept that Mr C didnt get the help he was entitled to expect when he needed it and for 
which hed paid a premium.
Instead, Devitt incorrectly told Mr C he didnt have European breakdown cover. So he had to 
make some more calls, including to friends. I dont doubt that this caused Mr C some extra 
disappointment, frustration and upset at an already difficult time for him. I accept that Mr C 
was concerned about what would happen if the bike broke down again. 
The motorbike cover was separate and theres no evidence that Devitt had made a mistake 
about that. So I dont consider that Mr C had any more than the usual concerns about being 
involved in a motorbike accident.
Ive thought about how much compensation I wouldve found fair and reasonable if Devitt 
hadnt made any offer. I conclude that £100.00 wouldve been fair and reasonable. So- whilst 
I expect Devitt to honour its offer of £100.00 if it hasnt already done so - I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct Devitt to pay Mr C any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Devitt Insurance Services Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman