DRN-3502942
The complaint
Mr Z complains that he asked Western Union Payment Services Ireland Limited (WU) to 
send £3,396.09 overseas for him. The money didnt get there, so it should have been 
refunded to him, but he said he never got it back.
What happened
Mr Z said WU wouldnt send his money where he wanted it, so he wanted it back. He said 
hed been to a number of different agents, and they said he couldnt have it back, as WU 
hadnt sent through the money. So he wanted us to help.
WU said Mr Z had asked it to send some money overseas for him, back in October 2020. 
Unfortunately, it hadnt been able to make the payment overseas. So WU said it gave Mr Z 
his money back. It processed a refund for the full amount Mr Z sent, on 24 October 2020. 
Mr Z called WUs customer services on the same day, and was told that his transaction was 
available for refund in the UK. WU said Mr Z collected the refund on 26 October, at the same 
agent he sent the money through. 
WU showed us the forms Mr Z used to send and to receive the money, both of which were 
signed. And it showed us a copy of the ID Mr Z had used for these transactions.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that from the 
information she had, she was satisfied that the money had been returned to Mr Z. 
Mr Z then sent us a copy of a refund notification. This was in the form of an email, sent to Mr 
Z from WU on 17 February 2021. It had then been stamped by a foreign exchange agency 
with a date of 14 January 2022, and annotated with no money transfered were found. 
Mr Z said this was a signed statement from staff at the relevant branch, showing that he 
hadnt had his refund. Mr Z repeated that hed never had his money back, and asked if WU 
could produce a signed to receive money form. He wanted us to carry on our investigation.
WU sent us the forms showing that Mr Z had sent and then later collected the money. It also 
sent us staff testimony from the branch, indicating that staff remembered serving Mr Z, both 
when he paid in the money and when it was refunded to him.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She sent Mr Z the form showing his refund had 
been signed for, and said that this was dated quite some time before the stamp Mr Z had 
obtained from the relevant agent. Mr Z said he hadnt received the money, and that wasnt 
his real signature. He wanted the name of the staff member who claimed to have handed 
him the money.
Our investigator said that the signature did appear to her to be like that on Mr Zs ID, which 
WU had sent us. And our service wouldnt give out the names of members of staff in other 
businesses. She hadnt changed her mind. 
Mr Z wrote again, with what he said were statements from agents showing the money hadnt 
been paid to him. So our investigator asked WU again, and it provided electronic details 
showing the transaction on 26 October 2020. She also asked about the email Mr Z received 
in February 2021, and WU said that this was sent in error. 
There were two mistakes in that February 2021 email. 
Firstly, it referred to a Money Control Transfer Number (MCTN) which ended in 7809. 
There was no money under this number, because it wasnt to do with Mr Zs transaction. The 
right number was also quoted in this email, it ended in 6539. That was the number which 
WU had shown us applied to the refund Mr Z had received. 
And secondly, WU said the sender of the email hadnt checked WUs systems properly. If 
they had checked, and looked at the right MCTN, theyd have been able to see Mr Z had 
been paid.
WU said it was sorry for the confusion that these mistakes had caused. It wanted to pay Mr 
Z £100 to apologise. Our investigator thought that was fair. Mr Z didnt want to accept this, 
so the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Ive seen electronic evidence of the transaction that refunded money to Mr Z on 26 October 
2020, and a form which is signed for these returned funds, on this date. The signature does 
appear to me to be not dissimilar to the signature on the form for sending the money, and 
the one on Mr Zs drivers licence. So I am satisfied that it is most likely that the refund for 
MCTN ending 6539 was paid to Mr Z on 26 October 2020.
I can see that WU has caused some confusion in this case, because when it emailed Mr Z, it 
quoted an incorrect MCTN, as well as the correct one. And it suggested his money might not 
have been collected.
Mr Z has obtained a letter, signed to say that no money was found on MCTN ending 7809. 
But as this number was incorrect, and didnt relate to Mr Z at all, it doesnt seem to me to be 
surprising that no money was found for him under this number. 
Mr Z also has another letter which simply says no money transfer was found. I dont know 
which MTCN was checked here. If it was the wrong number, then we know theres no money 
waiting there, its not to do with Mr Zs transfer at all. But even if it was the right MTCN, 
ending in 6539, I would expect that not to have money waiting, because what WU has 
shown us makes me think this money has already been paid to Mr Z.
So, unfortunately, what Mr Z has shown us doesnt change my view that its most likely Mr Z 
was paid for MCTN ending 6539, on 26 October 2020. The evidence WU provided, including 
a signed to receive money form, electronic records matching the information on this form, 
and staff testimony, all makes me think that its more likely than not that Mr Zs refund was 
paid to him in October 2020, not long after he tried to send the payment.But I do think that the mistakes in the February 2021 email from WU have caused confusion. 
WU ought to have reassured Mr Z then that he had been paid, and it didnt. I can see that 
WU would like to make a payment of £100 to Mr Z to apologise for this. Like our investigator, 
I think that provides a fair outcome to this complaint. 
I know that Mr Z will be disappointed, but because I do think its most likely his refund was 
paid to him in October 2020, I dont think WU has to pay more than £100 now.
My final decision
My final decision is that Western Union Payment Services Ireland Limited must pay Mr Z 
£100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman