DRN-2694546
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) placed a block on his credit 
card and later made it difficult for him to use a credit that was present on his account.
What happened
RBS placed a block on Mr Fs account. When Mr F contacted RBS to remove the block he 
wasnt able to provide some of the security information that RBS requested. As a result, RBS 
asked Mr F to visit a branch to confirm his identity in person so that the block could be 
removed. 
Mr F wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint. RBS looked at Mr Fs complaint, but 
they noted that the block on Mr Fs account had been applied by their fraud prevention 
system and they felt that theyd followed the correct process following the application of that 
block. So, they didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with RBSs response, or that RBS had made it difficult for him to 
access a credit on his account after the account had been unblocked. So, he referred his 
complaint this this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that RBS hadnt acted 
unfairly in how theyd applied the block or how theyd managed Mr Fs account after the 
block had been applied. In addition, our investigator also didnt feel that RBS had acted 
unreasonably with regard the credit on Mr Fs account. So, they didnt uphold Mr Fs 
complaint.
Mr F remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how it must have been frustrating for Mr F to have discovered that RBSs 
fraud prevention system had blocked his account, especially as the transaction that Mr F 
was attempting to make when he discovered the block was the purchase of a rail ticket 
which hed completed successfully on several occasions using his RBS credit card 
previously.
Fraud prevention systems are used by banks to protect the accounts of their customers from 
potential unauthorised access. And, while I can appreciate that in this instance it may have 
been the case that RBSs system was triggered unnecessarily, Im satisfied that the blocking 
of Mr Fs card wasnt a deliberate or malicious act in any way, and I wouldnt consider 
censuring RBS for the potential over-sensitivity of a system designed to protect their 
customers interests.
What this service would expect would be that RBS would have processes in place to enable 
a customer to quickly regain access to their account, if the precautionary action of blocking 
the account has been confirmed by that customer as being undertaken without continuing 
merit.
RBS say that they have such processes in place here, and they note that Mr F did contact 
them to unblock the account but was unable to confirm some of the security information that 
RBS asked of him. And Mr F has confirmed himself that this was indeed the case. Because 
of this, I find it difficult to conclude that RBS acted unreasonably here in asking Mr F to visit a 
branch to verify his identity in person. 
Mr F has stated that the security question he was asked but couldnt answer was old and 
that he had simply forgotten the answer. Mr F also states that RBS could have asked him 
alternative security questions at that time which he would have been able to correctly 
respond to, and that because of this, RBSs asking him to verify his identity in branch was 
over zealous and unnecessary. 
Im not convinced by Mr Fs position here and given the nature and purpose of security 
questions I consider that it may have been remiss of RBS to have taken any course of action 
other than to request Mr F to confirm his identity in branch in these circumstances. 
Furthermore, it was incumbent on Mr F to have maintained the security information on his 
account and to have updated it if he no longer felt that he would be able to recall the 
information when required.
Im aware that Mr F did attempt to visit a branch to confirm his identity, but that the branch 
was closed as a result of the emerging Covid-19 pandemic. This is unfortunate, and I can 
appreciate how this might have only added to Mr Fs frustrations. 
But its important to note that the events in question here were taking place at the beginning 
of the pandemic and that RBS had asked Mr F to confirm his identity in branch before any 
Covid-19 restrictions had entered force. Because of this, and given the seriousness of the 
emerging situation at that time, I dont feel that it would be fair or reasonable of me to hold 
NatWest accountable for Mr F not being able to verify his identity in branch at the time that 
he attempted to do so.
Of course, this meant that Mr F was now in the difficult position of being asked to verify his 
identity in person whilst being unable to physically do so. Its pleasing therefore to note that 
RBS had a system in place to unblock Mr Fs card automatically after two weeks if it 
remained blocked at that time  and thats ultimately what happened in this instance. 
And again, while I can appreciate that this was far from ideal for Mr F, Im satisfied that RBS 
followed a reasonable process and that a number of the frustrations that Mr F incurred trying 
to resolve this matter were as a result of the unique and unprecedented circumstances that 
were developing at that time, and which I dont feel it would be fair to hold RBS accountable 
for.
Finally, I note Mr Fs statement about RBS making it difficult for him to access a credit 
amount on his account, following the account being unblocked. But RBS have demonstrated 
that Mr F did have access to this amount, either by spending it using his credit card or by 
transferring it to another account by calling RBS to arrange this. As such, Im satisfied that 
Mr F wasnt unduly restricted with regard how he could access the credit amount on his 
account at that time.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that RBS have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr F here, and while I can appreciate that Mr F may have been personally frustrated by the events that transpired, Im satisfied that RBS followed 
reasonable processes and that matters were exacerbated by the wider circumstances over 
which RBS had no control.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr F was wanting here, but if follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or asking RBS to take any further action in regard to it. I hope 
that Mr F can understand, given everything Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman