DRN-2491154
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint arises from a claim made under his gadget insurance policy with Assurant 
General Insurance Limited.
What happened
On 11 June 2020, Mr F made a claim under his policy as his laptop was damaged. Assurant 
asked Mr F to provide proof of purchase of the laptop but he was unhappy about this, as he 
wasnt sure he still had the paperwork, and raised a complaint. Mr F did provide the proof of 
purchase on 23 June 2020 and the claim was accepted. Assurant arranged to collect the 
laptop from Mr F and it says it was received at the repair centre on 30 June 2020.
As he had not heard anything, Mr F contacted Assurant on 6 July 2020 for an update and 
was apparently told that was the last working day for the repair. The next day Mr F 
complained that it was taking too long. Assurant said it would make a cash settlement so he 
could replace his laptop and offered £449. However, Mr F said this settlement was based on 
the wrong model and Assurant revised its offer to £1,299.97. I understand this settlement 
was agreed on 16 July 2020. 
Mr F is very unhappy with the time taken to deal with the claim. He has made a number of 
points in support of his complaint, which Ive summarised below: 
He was expected to contact the seller about the purchase four years earlier, as 
Assurant did not have the ability (unlike other insurers) to tell them the date of first 
use of the laptop. As it was during the Covid pandemic, this was difficult. 
After this it took too long to fix the laptop. He was told they couldnt fix it, then that 
parts had come too late.
There was a lack of communication and he was not kept up-to-date.
The laptop should have been repaired within five days but it took almost four weeks.
He lost his job due to the Covid pandemic and had started doing some work building 
websites. He was in the middle of a job when his laptop broke down and this meant 
he lost the job, as he couldnt finish it. And he couldnt take on any other work.
There was intended fraud in offering him half the value of the laptop until he 
challenged this. 
He asked Assurant to contact him only by email or post but it phoned him twice.
Assurant says it contacted Mr F whenever there was an update on the claim, so there was 
not a lack of communication. Assurant says it based the initial settlement offer on the device 
which had originally been registered for cover under the policy. It reassessed this once it 
was aware of its error. However, it acknowledges that this caused a delay and it also 
accepts that it had agreed to only contact Mr F in writing and it had called him on the phone. 
Assurant apologised and offered £75 compensation for this. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied that the offer made was reasonable. 
Mr F does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to make a successful insurance claim, it is for a policyholder to prove their claim. 
That means that they have to prove they owned the items claimed for and that an insured 
event occurred. In this case therefore it means that Assurant have to be satisfied that the 
laptop claimed for was owned by Mr F. I dont therefore consider it was unreasonable for 
Assurant to ask for the receipt or other proof of purchase of the laptop. 
Mr F is adamant that Assurant deliberately offered the wrong amount in settlement of his 
claim. Assurant says the initial offer was based on the laptop model it had initially registered 
under the policy and not the actual model claimed for. I have no reason to doubt that this 
was a genuine error. And Assurant accepted it had offered the wrong amount soon after    
Mr F objected and revised its offer of settlement. So while I acknowledge this error would 
have caused frustration and been annoying, it was rectified relatively promptly and a 
settlement offer made which Mr F was satisfied with. 
Mr F also says it took too long to deal with the claim overall. He says Assurant took too long 
trying to repair the laptop; to decide the laptop was beyond repair and to make the correct 
offer of settlement. 
The claim took just over two weeks from when Assurant received the laptop, which overall is 
not unreasonable. Theres no evidence of any deliberate delays and I am not persuaded 
there was any unreasonable delay in the attempts to repair it and then in making the 
decision to offer a cash settlement instead, as this seems to have taken a week. However, 
the error in the cash settlement offered did cause a delay of a few days which could have 
been avoided. In addition, Assurant tried to call Mr F when it had agreed not to.  
Mr F says he lost a job he was part way through, building a website, and was unable to take 
on other work without his laptop. The investigator asked for any documentary evidence to 
support this. In response to this request, Mr F said there were jobs he could not accept and 
some order (for online stores he manages which he could not fulfil). No other evidence has 
been provided. I can see this was a difficult time for Mr F financially. However, any such 
claim is going to cause disruption and the overall time to deal with the claim was not 
unreasonable. So even if there were documentary evidence that Mr F had lost a job and 
been prevented from taking others because he didnt have his laptop (which there isnt) I am 
not persuaded that this could be attributed solely to anything Assurant did wrong. 
There was a delay of a few days, which was Assurants fault and which could have been 
avoided. On the evidence available, I think the £75 already offered is not unreasonable. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint as I consider Assurant General Insurance Limited has already 
made a reasonable offer in full and final settlement of the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman