The complaint
Mr M complains Allianz Insurance Plc won't settle his claim for his lost mobile phones.
What happened
Mr M has personal effects cover under his Allianz policy. In March, Mr M attended a 
children's party. And when he went to take a picture of his daughter, he realised his two 
mobile phones were missing. Mr M and others at the party tried to find his phones, but they 
were unsuccessful. The lost phones were reported to the police and Mr M's phone providers. 
He also made a claim for the phones under his Allianz policy.
Allianz looked into Mr M's claim and Mr M provided them with information to help their 
investigations.  Allianz decided to decline Mr M's claims because they weren't satisfied he 
had taken reasonable care of his phones when he was at the party. Mr M disagreed with 
Allianz and raised a complaint.
Allianz investigated Mr M's complaint. But they thought the right outcome had been reached 
in Mr M's claim. Mr M remained unhappy, particularly because Allianz had settled a claim for 
his lost phones in the past. So Mr M brought his complaint to service.
Our investigator didn't think Mr M's complaint should be upheld. She said Mr M had left his 
phones unattended. So she didn't think he had taken reasonable care at the party to prevent 
them going missing. She also didn't think having a claim for his phones settled in the past 
affected the outcome of his current claim.
Mr M disagreed with our investigator, so his complaint was passed to me to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr M's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome he wanted. But I'll explain my reasoning below.
Mr M has been very open when discussing the circumstances around the time his phones 
went missing. And he's made it clear that he doesn't know how it happened. But when 
explaining his actions at the party, Mr M told Allianz that he was  DJ-ing and thinks he 
initially placed the phones with the laptop he was using to play music. He then left the laptop 
and his phones unattended while he got food and helped with the party. It wasn't until he 
went to take a picture of his daughter that he remembered the phones weren't on him, as he 
couldn't feel them in his pockets. But when he checked his laptop, his phones weren't there 
either.
DRN-1146441I can only ask Allianz to pay Mr M's claim if his circumstances fall within the remit of his 
policy. And I don't think they do. That's because Mr M's policy says "1. Reasonable Care 
You must take all reasonable steps to prevent accidents loss or damage...". It's unfortunate 
Mr M's phones went missing when he was helping out at a friend's party. But, I can't fairly 
say he took reasonable care of his phones. That's because I'm persuaded it's most likely his 
phones went missing when they were left unattended for a prolonged period of time. Mr M 
leaving his phones in the open, and out of sight, means they were more susceptible to being 
taken. Insurance is designed to cover unforeseeable events. And I don't think it's 
unforeseeable that mobile phones may go missing if they're left unattended.
I've taken on board what Mr M has said about Allianz settling a previous claim for his two 
mobile phones. But that doesn't mean all future claims must be settled. I'd expect an insurer 
to base their decision on the individual circumstances of any given claim. And I'm satisfied 
that's what Allianz has done.
I've not seen any evidence to suggest Allianz hasn't treated Mr M fairly. So I won't be asking 
them to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mr M's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman