DRN-2943438
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the compensation HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) has offered to settle 
his complaint related to a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy mis-sold to him 
alongside a credit card.
What happened
Mr R opened a credit card account with HSBC in July 2000 and at the same time took out a 
PPI policy connected with that account. 
Mr R has now complained to HSBC that the PPI was mis-sold. HSBC wrote to him in April 
2020 agreeing to uphold his complaint and offered £2,299.09 in compensation to settle the 
complaint. 
Mr R signed and returned the acceptance form for the amount offered in full and final 
settlement. However, he then said he was unhappy with the amount of compensation as he 
should be paid more to cover the commission HSBC received. 
He brought his complaint to this service and our adjudicator said what HSBC had offered for 
the mis-sold PPI was fair and the compensation paid included any unfair commission HSBC 
had received. 
Mr R remained unhappy and so the matter has been passed to me to consider the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has agreed to uphold the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold. So in this decision I am not 
considering how the policy came to be sold, as that makes no difference to the amount of 
compensation that should be paid for the mis-sold policy. I am looking at whether the offer and 
payment made by HSBC for the mis-sale is fair.
When PPI is mis-sold we expect a business to pay compensation that refunds all the costs the 
consumer paid for the PPI and also to pay compensatory interest for any period a consumer was out 
of pocket. 
I think  what  HSBC  has offered  in this case  as the compensation  to refund  the costs  of 
the PPI is fair and I shall  explain  why.  
HSBC  does  not have  the full data for the credit  card account  and no accurate  
information  about  what  was charged  for the PPI on this account.  So HSBC  are 
making  what  is called  an average  offer.  This means  HSBC  has used  information  it 
holds  from other  customers  who had similar  policies  on a credit  card for a similar  
period  of time.  It uses  this data it has obtained  over time to work  out, on average,  
what  a consumer  may have  paid for the PPI. 
The total offer HSBC  has made  and paid to Mr R as compensation  for the mis-sale  is 
£2,299,09. This is based on what consumers on average would have paid for the PPI 
premiums and interest on similar accounts for similar periods of time.
Businesses are not legally required to keep financial data for more than six years. So it is 
not surprising that HSBC does not have the full data about the charges made for the PPI 
that ran from July 2000 to November 2003. This is all over 17 years ago. Mr R hasnt 
provided any evidence about what he may have paid for the PPI as he doesnt seem to 
have retained any statements about the account. 
In circumstances such as this where neither party can provide any data about the actual 
costs, then a method to work out what may have been paid has to be considered. And it 
is accepted by this service that using the average offer approach is the fairest way to 
reach a reasonable figure for the compensation. So what HSBC has done is fair.
Mr R has also raised concerns that he should also be paid any unfair commission that 
HSBC received as a result of Mr R taking out the PPI policy and paying for it. Any 
commission that HSBC did receive was included as part of the premiums charged for the 
PPI. So by refunding the total premiums paid, this also means any commission is 
refunded. Therefore, in this case Mr R has received any amount of unfair commission as 
part of the compensation he has been repaid. 
The compensation HSBC has paid to Mr R included £587.34 for the premiums estimated 
to have been paid and this included the commission. Also Mr R was paid £1,655.39 for 
interest charged on the premiums and again this means he has received interest caused 
by any commission amount included in the premiums.
In summary, as there is no actual data for HSBC to use to work out exactly what Mr R 
paid for the PPI, the approach it has taken to pay an average offer is deemed fair. And I 
cannot see any alternative in the circumstances of this case for a more accurate 
calculation of compensation to be made.
The compensation paid also included any commission HSBC may have received as this 
was part of the premiums charged. And any interest caused by the commission is also 
included in the interest caused by the premiums. Therefore, there is nothing more for 
HSBC to pay in compensation to Mr R. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, Im not upholding this complaint that any further 
compensation is due to Mr R for the mis-sold PPI associated with his credit card. The 
average offer HSBC Bank PLC has made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case and I am not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman