DRN-3680368
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim against
their travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs G have travel insurance as a benefit of a current 
account. In January 2020, they left the UK on an extended trip. I understand that they 
intended to return home in May 2020.
On 10 February 2020, Mr and Mrs G returned to the UK in order to attend a funeral on 
11 February 2020. On the day of the funeral, Mrs G suffered a short blackout.
Mr and Mrs G originally intended to return abroad on 12 February 2020 but instead,  
Mrs G saw a doctor in the UK, who referred her to a stroke clinic.
On 13 February 2020, Mrs G attended the stroke clinic in the UK. The doctor at the stroke 
clinic thought that Mrs G had suffered a stroke, prescribed medication, and said she was 
fit to fly and could return abroad and have treatment and tests there. On                          
19 February 2020, Mr and Mrs G returned overseas. Mrs G saw a doctor abroad who 
advised her to have a scan and see a cardiologist. The cardiologist asked for a further 
diagnostic test.
On 21 February 2020, Mr G contacted UKI about making a claim. Ill refer to that 
conversation in more detail below. Subsequently, UKI declined Mr and Mrs Gs claim. It 
relied on an exclusion in the policy in relation to routine care or check-ups known about 
before leaving for a trip.
In its final response to Mr G, UKI relied on a different exclusion. It said that the policy 
excluded claims for costs of treatment which isnt essential in the opinion of its medical 
advisers and could have waited until a return to the UK. UKI also said that when Mr G 
called on 21 February 2020, it didnt confirm cover but did tell him to submit a claim 
when Mrs G had seen the overseas doctor. It said that was misleading and paid
Mr and Mrs G compensation of £100 in relation to that. Mr and Mrs G didnt think that 
was sufficient and pursued their complaint.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that whether or not   
Mr and Mrs G ended their trip when they returned to the UK for a funeral, UKI hadnt 
treated them unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim. The investigator said that 
whilst UKI accepted that it gave Mr G misleading information that doesnt mean that it 
should settle their claim.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the investigator and responded in some detail, which I 
wont set out here. In summary, they said:
UKI should be bound by the incorrect information it gave.
Our consideration should be confined to the reasons UKI gave for declining the 
claim.
Given delays in the NHS, its unreasonable to suggest that they should have 
remained in the UK for tests.
UKI didnt consult its medical adviser about whether Mrs Gs treatment could wait 
until their return to the UK in April 2020.
There were further exchanges between Mr and Mrs G and the investigator. The investigator 
didnt change his view. Mr and Mrs G asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint so  
it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 22 August 2022, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I 
didnt propose to uphold the complaint for slightly different reasons than had been 
explained before. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say 
as follows:
Definitions
[]
Home
The address where you permanently live in the UK. 
[]
Trip
A journey that begins and ends at your home during the period of insurance that is:
Outside the UK.
Within the UK, where you are staying in pre-booked commercially operated
accommodation for two or more consecutive nights."
Other general exclusions
We will not pay for:
[]
Any claim if you were travelling specifically to get medical advice or treatment.
Part 2  Covers For You
Emergency Medical and Travel Costs
This section provides cover if you need emergency medical treatment while on your trip. 
If it is medically necessary we will arrange to get you to your home area. If you fall ill or 
are injured abroad, where possible, please contact our emergency assistance service 
before accepting any treatment
[]
We wont pay 
for: []
7. Any claim for costs of treatment, tests or surgery, including preventative treatment 
and cosmetic or elective surgery, and anything connected to them, that is not essential 
in the opinion of our medical adviser or could reasonably have waited until your return 
to your home area.Claiming for emergency medical and travel costs
To claim for emergency medical and travel costs where reasonably possible you or a
travelling companion must:
Contact our emergency assistance service as soon as possible if:
You need to go to hospital as an inpatient.
The doctor treating you says you need tests or other outpatient treatment.
You need to return to your home area because of a medical emergency.
You need to extend your trip because of a medical emergency.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont propose to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint because I dont think that UKI treated them unfairly in 
declining the claim and I think that the compensation its already paid in relation to service 
issues is fair and reasonable. I say that because:
I dont think that Mr and Mrs G ended their trip when they returned to the UK on       
10 February 2020. The policy defines a trip outside the UK as one which begins and 
ends at Mr and Mrs Gs home. The policy defines Home as the address where      
Mr and Mrs G live permanently in the UK. Mr and Mrs G say  and I accept  that 
when they returned to the UK in February 2020 they didnt return to their home but 
stayed with a relative. Thats been their consistent position from the outset. So, I 
proceed on the basis that Mr and Mrs Gs trip didnt end in February 2020.
Based on what Ive seen, theres nothing to suggest that Mrs G knew that shed 
need routine care or check-ups before she left for the trip in January 2020. That 
means that UKI cant rely on the exclusion to which it first referred.
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer 
will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that their 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
its for the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
The circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs claim are rather unusual in that they returned to 
the UK during their trip where Mrs G became unwell and pursued treatment, first in the 
UK, then abroad. I think that the unusual circumstances of the claim have led to 
confusion in applying the policy terms to Mr and Mrs Gs claim.
UKI seeks to rely on an exclusion in the policy which says that it wont pay for costs 
of treatment or tests which are not essential in the opinion of its medical adviser or 
could reasonably wait until Mr and Mrs G returned to their home area. In its final 
response letter to Mr G, UKI incorrectly replaced or with and. In fact, those 
elements are separate.
UKI hasnt consulted its medical adviser. It says thats because Mr and Mrs G havent 
provided any medical evidence for consideration. So that leaves the question of 
whether the treatment and tests could reasonably wait until Mr and Mrs G returned to 
their home area. Ive seen nothing to support a conclusion that the tests Mrs G 
required could wait until Mr and Mrs Gs planned return date in May 2020. But thats 
not the end of the matter.Mr and Mrs Gs policy isnt private medical insurance. Its designed to provide cover 
for emergency medical treatment. The policy provides that Mr and Mrs G should, 
where possible, contact UKIs emergency assistance service before accepting any 
treatment. Here, Mr G didnt contact UKIs emergency assistance service. I 
understand that he contacted UKIs claims department. In the particular 
circumstances of this case, I think it was for UKI to redirect Mr Gs call or to tell him 
the number he should call. So, I dont think the fact that Mr G contacted the wrong 
department affects the outcome here.
I think that UKIs position is that Mr and Mrs G should have remained in the UK in 
February 2020 for Mrs Gs treatment and tests. When we consider complaints like this 
one, we look at the terms and conditions of the policy in their entirety, as they set out 
the rights and obligations between the parties. We dont confine our consideration to 
the terms either party have relied on to  date.
I think UKI is entitled to rely on a general exclusion in the policy which provides that it 
wont pay for any claim if Mr and Mrs G were travelling specifically to get medical 
advice or treatment. Its clear from what Mr and Mrs G have said that when they 
returned abroad it was with the specific intention of getting medical advice or treatment 
for Mrs G. Thats excluded under the policy. Ive noted what Mr and Mrs G say about 
delays in the NHS if they had decided to remain in the UK and seek treatment, but I 
dont think that alters the outcome here. I dont think that UKI acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining Mr and Mrs Gs claim, albeit for a different reason than it 
gave to Mr and Mrs G.
Its common ground that UKI gave Mr G misleading information in the phone 
conversation on 21 February 2020. It gave Mr G the impression that they could make 
a claim whereas it should have redirected his call to the emergency assistance 
service. When mistakes like this happen, we dont proceed on the basis that the 
misleading information is true; we look to see the effect of the error on the individual.
Based on what Ive seen, I think that if Mr and Mrs G had been made aware of the 
true position on 21 February 2020, Mrs G would have continued to have the treatment 
and tests abroad. Mr and Mrs G havent suggested that they would have done 
anything differently at that stage. So, I dont think that the misleading information 
caused Mr and Mrs G financial loss. They were no doubt disappointed to discover the 
true position. I think that the compensation of £100 UKI has already paid in relation to 
this matter is fair and reasonable.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI agreed with the provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Mr G responded 
to say, in summary:
If UKI is entitled to renege on what it said in the phone call, compensation of 
£100 is fair but that doesnt mean that they wont pursue their claim.
His recollection of the phone call is that UKI agreed that the circumstances 
warranted a claim, the proposed initial treatment was covered, and bills should 
be delivered in due course. No bills have been submitted as UKI declined the 
claim.
Whilst its true that the NHS would have been slow to deal with the problem, the 
reason for returning abroad was simply to resume their holiday. If they had been 
on holiday in the UK, Mrs G would have had treatment in the UK.They referred the matter to this service to determine whether UKIs reasons for 
declining their claim were valid. I shouldnt rely on an exclusion to which UKI 
hasnt referred. 
If they hadnt been insured, they would have returned abroad to continue their 
holiday and paid for whatever treatment was needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI accepts that it gave Mr G misleading information in the phone call on 21 February 2020. 
I note that Mr G accepts that, if UKI is entitled to renege on what it said, the compensation of 
£100 it has already paid is fair. As I explained in the provisional decision, when mistakes like 
this happen, we dont proceed on the basis that the misleading information is true; we look at 
the effect of the error on the individual. 
Mr G says that they returned abroad on 19 February 2020 in order to resume their holiday. 
But its clear that they also returned abroad to get medical treatment for Mrs G, as advised 
by the doctor she saw in the UK. So, I think its fair to say that Mrs G was travelling 
specifically to get medical treatment, which is caught by the exclusion in the policy. 
Mr G says that I should limit my consideration to the reasons UKI referred to in declining the 
claim. I dont agree. Im obliged to come to a decision thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case. That entails looking at the terms and conditions of the policy in 
their entirety, as they set out the rights and obligations between the parties. Its not open to 
either Mr and Mrs G or UKI to direct our investigation or limit what we consider.   
Ive considered whats been said but I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I set out 
in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman