DRN-3150667
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her two packaged bank 
accounts, the first called a Select account and the second called a Silver account.
Lloyds charged Miss C a monthly fee for both accounts and provided several potential 
benefits in return. 
Miss C thinks that Lloyds should refund her all the fees she paid, plus interest.
What happened
Miss C has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has told us that its records show 
that: 
from at least September 2001, and probably much earlier, Miss C held one of its fee-
free accounts, 
it sold her the Select account in July 2002 and started to charge her the monthly fee,
it sold her the Silver account (*) in November 2012 and charged her a higher monthly 
fee.
(*) Between November 2012 and May 2016, Miss Cs account was designated as a 
Silver Vantage account. Lloyds did not charge her any additional fees for this 
designation. But, subject to the way Miss C ran the account, it would pay her interest 
if her balance was in credit. This additional feature is not particularly relevant to the 
complaint and so I have used the single term Silver throughout the rest of this 
decision.
This account history from Lloyds is not in dispute and I have taken it to be accurate. I 
understand that Miss C kept the Silver account until at least early 2021, although Im not 
sure if she still has it.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Miss Cs complaint and didnt recommend 
that Lloyds should give her any money back. Miss C didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her case. So, it has come to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Miss C and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Both Lloyds and Miss C have told us that Lloyds advised her to buy both accounts during 
separate meetings in one of its branches. As Lloyds gave Miss C advice, to meet its 
obligations to her, I would have expected it to check that both accounts were a reasonable 
match for her needs and financial situation when it sold them to her, tell her about accounts 
benefits and costs clearly and fairly, and give her a choice about buying them.
Miss C has not distinguished very much between the Select and the Silver accounts and has 
mainly made a common complaint about both, but as there was a gap of around ten years 
between Lloyds selling the two accounts to her, I have considered them separately. 
Neither party has sent us any detailed records of what happened during either meeting, 
which is not surprising after such a long time has passed, so I cant tell for sure what Lloyds 
said, or didnt say, to Miss C on either occasion. Instead, I have considered the evidence 
which is available to work out what is most likely to have happened. 
The way Lloyds sold the Select account to Miss C in July 2002
The crux of Miss Cs complaint is that she doesnt think Lloyds gave her a choice. Shes told 
us that Lloyds never said there was an alternative free account and that At no point was it 
stated that (she) could continue with (her) free account. 
I appreciate that Miss C is doing her best to remember what Lloyds said, but I doubt it 
denied her the choice to keep her fee-free account. At that time, she had held such an 
account for at least several months, possibly much longer, and Lloyds was not withdrawing 
such accounts from its customers. It has continued to provide them ever since, as have 
other UK banks. I think its unlikely that Lloyds would have told Miss C the opposite as this 
would have contradicted its position in the market and gone against common banking 
practices. Im satisfied that Lloyds probably allowed Miss C a choice. 
In July 2002, the main potential benefit of the Select account was use of a car breakdown 
service. The account also provided purchase protection cover and extended warranties on 
some goods bought through the account. I understand that Miss C drove a car and so had a 
potential need for the main benefit of the account. She may also have been able to use 
some of the other benefits. 
Miss C has mentioned that in July 2002 she had no need for mobile phone insurance. I 
accept this. However, Lloyds didnt provide this benefit through the Select account until 
summer 2003; so, Miss Cs lack of need for this type of insurance was not an important 
factor in the way Lloyds sold her the Select account. 
Miss C has also mentioned that she may have paid for a separate car breakdown service but 
hasnt been able to tell us whether this was before or after Lloyds sold her the Select 
account. So, in this particular case, Im not convinced that this possibly duplicated cover 
meant Lloyds recommendation was unfair. I think it was reasonable.
There is no dispute that Lloyds told Miss C about the monthly fee for the Select account and 
I find it highly like that it also told her about the benefits. After all, Lloyds was trying to sell the 
Select account to Miss C and it was in its own interests to tell her what she could gain by 
buying it. 
I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Select account to Miss C. 
The way Lloyds sold the Silver account to Miss C in November 2012As mentioned above, Miss C has made very similar complaint points about the way Lloyds 
sold her the Silver account as she raised about the way it sold her the Select account. And 
for similar reason Im satisfied that it probably gave her a choice and told her about the Silver 
accounts costs and benefits. 
In 2012, the Silver account offered many of the same benefits as the Select account but also 
provided travel insurance. 
The travel insurance policy had several restrictions and limitations, but these dont seem to 
have affected Miss C adversely, and I understand that she travelled in Europe from time-to-
time. So, it seems reasonable to me for Lloyds to have recommended she should switch to 
the Silver account.
I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Silver account to Miss C.
So, in summary, while I cant tell for sure if Lloyds got everything right for Miss C, I think it 
behaved reasonably in recommending both the Select and the Silver accounts to her. And 
Im satisfied that on both occasions it probably told her about the fees and benefits of the 
accounts and gave her a choice
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Miss Cs complaint about Lloyds
Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman