DRN-3921818
The complaint
Mr D complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) communicated with him and 
made decisions on liability when he made a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D had a motor insurance policy with Aviva covering his car.
He was involved in two separate incidents in 2019 and 2020. Mr D has complained to Aviva 
about both of these, and its my understanding that he is happy that the details around the 
2019 claim have been resolved to his satisfaction.
In 2020 his car was hit from the rear by a third-party vehicle. The case went through an 
arbitration process with the third-party insurer because it denied liability for the collision, the 
result of which was that the liability for the incident was split 50/50.
Aviva didnt keep Mr D updated with how this claim was progressing and it didnt tell him 
about the 50/50 split on liability. The claim was recorded on an external database showing 
that Aviva couldnt recover all of its costs.
When Mr D applied for cover with another company, he was told that both claims were on 
the external database showing that Aviva hadnt recovered its costs for either claim. 
He wasnt happy about this and complained to Aviva. It said it didnt think itd communicated 
with Mr D well enough and it gave him £100 compensation for this. But Aviva said it had 
followed its terms and conditions in determining liability.
Mr D remained unhappy with Avivas response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint and said she said he thought that Aviva had 
followed its terms and conditions and the compensation it offered was fair and in line with 
this services recommendations. 
Aviva agreed with the view, but Mr D didnt. He asked that this service look at Avivas actions 
in investigating the 2020 claim and that it update the external database. He says that Avivas 
decision on liability continues to affect his insurance premiums. He asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important that I say that its not the role of the service to decide which party may or may 
not be at fault for a collision. Thats the role of the courts. Its my role to look at whether 
Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in its actions.
Its my understanding that the details of the 2019 claim have now been resolved. The final 
part of that claim is the records on the external database Ive mentioned. Aviva hasnt been 
able to recover its costs from a third-party, so the claim is marked as such under Mr Ds 
details. Its also important that I say that this doesnt denote fault about a particular claim  
its about whether an insurer was able to get its costs back from another party. 
In Mr Ds case, Aviva wasnt able to do this for either of his claims, but it does think it will 
eventually be able to make the recovery for the 2019 claim. Its also said that if this triggers a 
refund for overpayment then itll make payment to Mr D.
There are many reasons why costs might not be recovered, but having looked at whats 
taken place with both of Mr Ds claims, I think they are correctly recorded on the external 
database and Im not going to ask it to do more.
For the 2020 claim, I can see that Aviva didnt keep Mr D up to date, and particularly about 
how liability for the claim was ultimately decided. 
Ive looked at Avivas policy wording and I can see this section:
General Conditions
Our rights
If we want to, we can take over and conduct in the name of the person claiming 
under the policy the defence or settlement of any claim
We shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or settlement of any 
claim.
Its clear to me that Aviva has exercised this right to handle Mr Ds claim. The wording that 
its used is in line with the market and I think its acted fairly and reasonably in handling the 
claim in the way that it did.
But I can also see that Aviva didnt keep Mr D up to date with his claim and made the 
decision on the 2020 claim without letting him know. Its important that I say that, even if 
Aviva had told Mr D about the situation, I still think its actions in handling the claim on a 
50/50 basis would have been reasonable under the terms and conditions of its policy.
Its clear that Mr D has been distressed about finding out about his fault claims from a third-
party insurer and Aviva has offered Mr D £100 compensation for this. Ive thought about this 
carefully and I think that the level of compensation it has offered is fair and in line with this 
services guidelines.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mr D £100 if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Richard SowdenOmbudsman