DRN-2918573
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked an attempted transaction which 
resulted in a lost investment opportunity.
What happened
Mr H made a £500 investment to a third party with the intention of seeing if there would be 
any issues before he made a larger investment. As Mr H had no issues with this investment, 
he attempted to invest £6,000 the following day. When Mr H attempted to make the 
transaction, he says the transaction was blocked and his account was frozen.
Mr H says that had he made the investment when he attempted to then he would have been 
able to make a profit of up to £1,020. Mr H received a call from Nationwide later that evening 
about the attempted transaction. At the time Mr H was overseas. As Mr H says the call 
handler did not identify themselves sufficiently and as his account had been frozen for 
potential fraud then he didnt wish to give his personal details to the caller and told 
Nationwide he would ring them back.
Mr H complained to Nationwide the following day. Mr H said that he believes that Nationwide 
and other banks are trying to slow down the type of investment he was trying to make. He 
said by placing a block on his account, this was another tool which Nationwide took to slow 
down the process which has resulted in him losing out on the investment opportunity. 
Mr H felt the transaction shouldnt have been blocked as he had ticked a number of boxes 
confirming that the transaction was genuine and he had successfully made a smaller 
payment to the same company the previous day. Mr H wanted Nationwide to pay him £700 
to compensate him for the missed investment opportunity. Although this was less than the 
profit which he couldve potentially made, he appreciated he may not have been able to 
make the investment at the lowest price and sell at the highest price. 
Nationwide said they had recently seen an increase in fraud and scams with the type of 
investment Mr H was attempting to make. So Nationwide said they held his payment to 
safeguard his account until they were able to determine whether the payment was genuine 
or not. Nationwide said that although they attempted to call Mr H on the same day that he 
made the transaction, it was outside of the timeframe they would aim to give a member a 
call. To recognise this, Nationwide said they would credit Mr Hs account with £100. As for 
the withholding of his payment they did not uphold this part of Mr Hs complaint as they said 
they had followed their internal fraud processes and quoted a section of their terms and 
conditions which explained they can refuse to make a payment if they suspect fraud. Mr H 
brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. He said Nationwide have an obligation to 
review payments which they feel may be fraudulent and need to ensure their authenticity 
before approving the transaction. Our investigator felt the £100 that Nationwide had paid Mr 
H was fair for the time it took them to contact Mr H about the attempted transaction. 
Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint and made a number of follow up 
points. In summary he said the block was a targeted assault on customers wishing to make 
withdrawals to the type of company he wanted to invest with and there has been numerous 
instances of this occurring with multiple people he knows. He also says that banks are hiding 
behind their terms and conditions and saying they are protecting customers as a cover up for 
them not wanting customers to use the asset Mr H was trying to invest in.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of points to both this service and Nationwide and Ive considered, 
listened and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a 
quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair 
and reasonable here.
Mr H has mentioned that multiple people he knows have also had payments for investments 
similar to the investment he attempted to make here blocked by banks. He also said that 
banks are trying to slow down people trying to invest in the type of asset Mr H wanted to 
invest in. It may help if I explain to Mr H that I can only look at the merits of his individual 
complaint here and not what has happened to other people he knows. Our investigator has 
explained to him that it would be the regulator he would need to contact if he wanted 
financial institutions to change their processes. So Ill just be looking at whether Nationwide 
have treated him fairly here.
As our investigator explained to Mr H, Nationwide have a duty of care to protect their 
members. Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr H has regarding this being a cover up to 
delay his investment. But Im satisfied that the blocking of the transaction was due to 
Nationwide trying to ensure that the payment was genuine.
I say this as the attempted investment was for twelve times the investment Mr H had made 
to the company the previous day. So as another payment had been attempted in addition to 
the £500 payment the previous day then I would expect Nationwide to ensure that the 
payment was genuine before allowing the payment. But Nationwide would not know for sure 
until they have verified that with Mr H. As Nationwides terms and conditions state, they may 
refuse to make a payment if they suspect fraud. So Im satisfied they were trying to act in the 
best interests of Mr H here, even though the payment was genuine.
Nationwide have said that they called Mr H later than the two hour window they would 
usually try and contact a member when they suspect fraud. So what I would expect 
Nationwide to do here is apologise to Mr H and to pay him compensation for not following 
their process. And this is what they did. They apologised to Mr H and said they would credit 
his account with £100 for the delay in calling him. Im persuaded the compensation that they 
paid Mr H here was fair. I say that as it would have been frustrating for Mr H to wait for 
Nationwide to contact him about this. 
Mr H lost out on an investment opportunity and this has been very frustrating for Mr H, 
especially when his payment was genuine. But Nationwide acted in line with their terms and 
conditions fairly to ensure the payment was genuine before lifting the block. So it follows I 
wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman