DRN-3160183
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have declined his claim for accidental 
damage.
What happened
Mr H took out home insurance with Aviva in 2019. His quote for insurance was obtained over 
the phone with Aviva. He discussed with Aviva the level of cover he required for accidental 
damage before purchasing the policy. Mr H renewed the policy in 2020 and 2021.  
Mr H contacted Aviva in May 2021 to make a claim for accidental damage. He said he had 
been moving his fridge and accidently damaged his wooden floor. Aviva declined the claim 
as they said that Mr H didnt have the necessary level of contents accidental damage cover 
to include the floor. 
Mr H complained to Aviva. He said it hadnt been made clear to him when he bought the 
policy that the flooring wouldnt be covered. Aviva listened to the initial sales call and said 
that the different levels of cover for accidental damage were fully explained to Mr H. They 
said that the policy didnt cover accidental damage to the floor and confirmed that the 
decision to decline the claim was correct. 
Mr H brought his complaint to us. He says he thought his flooring was covered under the 
policy and would like the damaged flooring replaced. Our investigator looked into the matter 
but didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. He thought that the claim fell under 
buildings insurance rather than contents insurance, but either way Mr H hadnt taken out a 
level of cover that would have included his flooring. Mr H asked for his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that Mr Hs claim for damage to his wooden floor falls under the 
buildings section of his policy rather than the contents section. The policy document defines 
a building as the home and its fixtures, fittings and decorations. Contents insurance usually 
covers everything you can take with you if you move home. Mr Hs policy says that contents 
doesnt include any part of the structure of the home, including wallpaper. I think that a 
wooden floor is a fixture and fitting and not something that you would be able to take with 
you when you move home.
Aviva dealt with Mr Hs claim under the contents section of his policy  so when looking at 
this complaint Ive considered both the contents and the buildings section.  
Ive listened to the call between Mr H and Aviva when he first took out the policy in 2019. Mr 
H telephoned Aviva for a quote. He was told that buildings insurance covered fixed items 
and if you cant take it with you, its part of the building. He was advised that accidental 
damage is not standard on buildings insurance. He was told that contents cover included 
everything you would take if you moved home. It was explained that there were three levels 
of cover for both buildings and contents insurance  none, limited and extra. It was clearly 
explained what the different levels of cover included, and Mr H was given examples of each 
level. He asked specific questions about including his television but didnt ask any questions 
about damage to flooring. He was told, however, that if he took the extra higher levels of 
contents cover that would include damage to carpets and furniture. 
During the call, Aviva took Mr H through various quotes with different levels of accidental 
cover for both buildings and contents insurance. Mr H decided that he didnt need any 
accidental damage cover for his building but would like limited cover for his contents. Having 
listened to the call, I think Aviva clearly explained the different options available to Mr H. Im 
also satisfied that Mr H understood as he engaged in the conversation, asked sensible 
questions and appeared to understand the answers given.
I also note that Mr H didnt take out the policy straightaway. He arranged for Aviva to call him 
back. Mr H therefore had an opportunity to think about the cover he needed before buying 
the policy. 
Ive looked at Mr Hs policy documents from 2019 and the renewal in 2021. It doesnt appear 
that any amendments were made to the policy between these dates. The policy schedule 
says that Mr H has limited accidental damage cover for contents in the home and is 
described as covering non-portable home entertainment equipment, mirrors and glass. Extra 
accidental damage cover is stated as not included. The schedule also says that it doesnt 
include any accidental damage cover to the building. The different levels of accidental 
damage are fully explained in the terms and conditions. I think that the information provided 
by Aviva is clear. 
The policy documents were sent to Mr H and he was asked to check that he was happy with 
the cover offered. 
Bearing all the above in mind, Im satisfied that Mr H didnt specifically request or take out 
accidental damage cover that would have included his wooden floor  either under his 
building insurance or his contents insurance. Whilst I appreciate that this isnt the outcome 
Mr H was hoping for, I dont think that Aviva have done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman