DRN-2403519
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the premium increase in the home insurance policy he held with 
St Andrews Insurance plc.
All reference to the underwriter St Andrews includes its agents.
What happened
Mr S says he bought a home insurance policy through his bank in 2010 and renewed it every 
year. At renewal in 2019, Mr S found he could obtain a quote cheaper with St Andrews than 
his renewal price  and cheaper elsewhere too. He complained to St Andrews as he said 
hed been overpaying for his insurance for several years. To put things right, he wanted St 
Andrews to compensate him by refunding the excess premium he says he paid over the 
years. 
St Andrews said it had correctly calculated Mr Ss premium each year. But Mr S remained 
unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator thought St Andrews hadnt done anything wrong. He noticed that there 
were times when Mr S changed the level of cover and so this would have had an impact on 
the price. 
Mr S didnt agree. In summary he says he didnt shop around because St Andrews told him 
in his renewal invite that he didnt need to do anything. He says the changes he made meant 
the level of cover decreased, so he says the level of risk for St Andrews was lower. Mr S 
says St Andrews were misleading. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important for me to say that our role isnt to tell a business how it should operate. This 
includes telling a business what it should charge its customers for insurance products. But I 
can look at whether St Andrews treated Mr S fairly during the time he held his home 
insurance policy with it.
Mr Ss policy automatically renewed each year. St Andrews has been able to provide a copy 
of the renewal invites it sent Mr S for 2018 and 2019. Its also provided the majority of 
renewal policy documents it sent to Mr S from 2012 onwards. From the information provided, 
Im satisfied that St Andrews Insurance plc was the underwriter of Mr Ss policy from 2010 
until renewal in 2019. As the underwriter, St Andrews sets the price Mr S has paid each year 
for his home insurance.
With automatic renewals there is a chance that if customers dont engage with the renewal 
process or shop around for other suitable policies, they may find themselves in a position 
where they are paying much more for their cover than a new customer would pay for a 
similar policy.
A business hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the insurance premium at 
renewal  and there are often risk-related reasons associated with the various insurers of the 
policy for doing so. Industry increases over time can also play a part.
I can see that the premium increased from £157.50 a year in 2010 to £475.67 in 2019. St 
Andrews has provided us with its calculation of the price Mr S paid each year. As this is 
commercially sensitive information, I cant share it with Mr S. But this service can check if the 
calculations show that a business treated a customer fairly. Im satisfied from the information 
St Andrews has provided that it did.
Looking at the contact Mr S had with St Andrews over the years, I can see that he engaged 
with it at renewal time in 2011,2012,2017 & 2019. In 2011 Mr S added legal expenses cover. 
In 2017 Mr S told St Andrews that two lodgers would be living at the property. St Andrews 
said this wouldnt affect the price until the renewal date. In 2019 Mr S discussed the price he 
was paying with St Andrews and it was able to offer a lower price. 
In the years 2017 and 2018, additional benefits were added to the cover St Andrews 
provided at renewal.
I think its worth mentioning that there would have been many external factors involved in the 
price increases over the years - such as increases in insurance premium tax rates 
(increased from 5% to 12%) and the impact of inflation. Mr S held his policy with St Andrews 
for approximately 9 years, which is a long time. So I dont think it was unreasonable that the 
cost of his premium would have risen over the years, to take these factors into account. 
So, while there have been increases to the premiums over the years, I think there were 
legitimate reasons behind the premium increases.
From the documents Ive seen, St Andrews used the term you do not need to do anything in 
relation to checking the answers recorded in the Insurance Statement. If Mr S was satisfied 
the answers were correct, he didnt need to do anything. In any event, I dont find it unusual 
for insurers to tell a customer they dont need to do anything if theyre happy with the 
information in the renewal invitation. This means a customer doesnt have to contact the 
insurer if they want their cover to continue for a further year. 
Mr S says he was able to obtain an alternative policy with another insurer for a lot less than 
what he was paying for his policy with St Andrews. And St Andrews offered him a much 
lower premium than the one it quoted at renewal. So he doesnt believe St Andrews has 
treated him fairly. 
When new policies are taken out, they often come with a significant initial discount which 
insurers aim to recoup over the years through customer retention. This is often referred to as 
new customer discount and has the effect of reducing the initial cost of the insurance policy. 
And businesses can also offer their customers discounts with the aim of retaining their 
existing customers. This is something businesses may do at their own discretion and we 
wouldnt consider it unfair. So I dont doubt that Mr S was able to obtain cheaper insurance 
by engaging with St Andrews and shopping around.
More recently, online practices and price comparison websites have resulted in insurers 
offering slightly more competitive prices. Some customers can now manage their policies online and this can reduce administrative costs to insurers, which in turn means savings 
applied to the reduction offered to customers.
Insurance policies provided by different insurers may involve different benefits and/or levels 
of benefits and the level of service offered to customers may also be different. So, we do 
need to be careful when comparing the cost of insurance policies, as there may be some 
known and possibly some unknown factors that could impact on the overall cost of the 
policy. 
I think its also worth mentioning that insurers can have a different perception of the risk a 
customer presents  and so the cost between insurers can be different based on each 
insurers perceived risk of the thing its undertaking to insure.
All of these factors mean that the cost of the policy Mr S held with St Andrews and renewed 
in subsequent years, would be different to the cost of a policy taken out more recently. So, 
although Mr S could take out a policy at a much lower cost today, for the reasons explained, 
I dont think it would be fair to compare the cost of different policies taken out at different 
times as if they were like-for-like.
From 1 April 2017, insurance companies and intermediaries were required by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to include a reminder in their renewal letters, where consumers had 
renewed their policy four, or more, consecutive times, that they may be able to obtain 
insurance cheaper elsewhere if they shopped around. 
I can see that the renewal documents sent to Mr S since 2017 did give such notice. So Im 
satisfied that St Andrews made Mr S aware that he may be able to obtain cheaper cover if 
he shopped around. I havent been able to tell if such a reminder was given before 2017 
from the documents St Andrews has provided. But it wasnt required to include this reminder 
prior to the point at which the FCAs rules took effect. It follows that Im unable to conclude 
that St Andrews did anything wrong, by not including the above-mentioned reminder in any 
renewal notices issued before 1 April 2017.
I understand Mr S is disappointed with St Andrews decision. But I think it acted fairly. And 
so this means I dont think it needs to provide Mr S with a refund. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman