DRN-1591057
 
The complaint
Mrs O complains, through a claim management company (CMC), that the Whole of Life 
plan she took out through a predecessor business to Phoenix Life Limited wasn't suitable.
What happened
Mrs O was advised to take out a reviewable unit-linked WOL plan for Inheritance Tax (IHT) 
mitigation in 1987 when she was 57 years of age. From the limited information available 
form the time of sale she had just inherited 'at least six properties'.
There was a Guaranteed Insurability Option under the plan which allowed her to take out a 
second WOL plan at the 10 year anniversary which option she exercised in 1997. But this 
second plan was cancelled in 2004.
The WOL plan was reviewed on first review in 1997 at which time the sum assured was 
reduced from around £152,000 to £71,000. The sum assured was reduced on each review in 
2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 so that after the review in 2004 the sum assured was only 
around £51,000.
Phoenix didnt uphold the complaint made by the CMC. One of our investigators considered 
the complaint but also didnt think it should be upheld. In short he said that there wasnt 
sufficient information for him to be able to say the WOL was unsuitable at the time it was 
recommended.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigator. It said the WOL plan wasnt suitable as the 
reviews after age 65 wouldnt have been affordable and a standard cover WOL plan would 
also have been unaffordable. It said the IHT liability was still important to Mrs O, otherwise 
why has she continued paying into the plan? It said that IHT planning is complex and the use 
of a life policy is only one option.
As the CMC didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for review.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to make clear that my findings and decision are made on a balance of 
probabilities  what is more likely, than not  based on the evidence available. I have pointed 
this out because there is very little evidence to assist me in this complaint.
It is worth briefly setting out how reviewable unit-linked WOL plans work. The premium that 
is paid buys units in the underlying insurance fund. Some of those units are then deducted to 
pay the costs of providing the life cover and administration charges. The remaining units 
remain invested and over time it is hoped that the investment part of the plan is sufficient to 
help pay the costs of life cover, as these increase as people age.Assumptions are made at the time the plan is taken out as to how the investment is going to 
perform and what the costs are going to be before review. When the plan is reviewed the 
company actuaries look at how the plan has done against the assumptions and make new 
assumptions about investment performance and costs until the next review. If a plan fails a 
review then an increase to premium will be necessary to keep the sum assured the same, or 
a reduction in the sum assured will be needed to keep the premium the same.
The type of WOL plan taken out affects the likelihood of a premium increase or reduction to 
sum assured being necessary on review. A standard cover WOL plan means that more of 
the premium remains invested and less is paid towards the costs of cover. A maximum sum 
assured plan means that most of the premium is used to pay the costs of cover. 
That means for the same premium you will get a higher level of cover initially with a 
maximum sum assured plan than for a standard plan. But because little remains invested 
with a maximum sum assured plan it makes it much more likely an increase to premium will 
be necessary on first review - and also on later reviews. 
Mrs Os plan was on a maximum sum assured basis. I would generally consider such a plan 
to be an unsuitable recommendation for someone wanting IHT mitigation. This is perhaps 
more so when the person taking out the plan is 57 years of age at the time, so on first review 
after 10 years they are likely to be retired. This is because an increase to premium is likely 
on first review so the plan holder has to choose between reducing the sum assured or 
increasing the premium, when their income is likely to be less than when they took out the 
plan as they will no longer be working. 
But although I think generally a maximum sum assured WOL plan would be unsuitable for 
IHT mitigation I am unable to say that this is always the case. So I can't say that just 
because Mrs O was advised to take out a maximum sum assured WOL plan the adviser did 
something wrong. 
There is, unsurprisingly, a lack of information about what happened in 1987 when the plan 
was sold. The current information suggests that a WOL plan on a standard cover basis 
wouldve cost around £95 more each month. The CMC has indicated that this wasnt a 
suitable alternative due to cost and I think it is more likely than not an additional £1,000 each 
year wasnt something that Mrs O wouldve wanted to pay given her income is recorded as 
being between £15,000 and £20,000.
So if she was going to have life cover for IHT a maximum sum assured WOL plan seems to 
have been the only real possibility. I accept it doesn't necessarily follow she should've been 
advised to take this out and life cover wasn't the only possibility. But there is no way of 
knowing what else the adviser may have advised Mrs O. It is certainly possible that he 
discussed other ways Mrs O could mitigate her IHT liability and that she then chose the 
WOL plan.
In summary there simply isnt enough evidence in this particular case for me to be satisfied 
that it is more likely than not that she was mis-sold the WOL plan. Given Mrs O has paid the 
premiums, and has retained the plan despite the drop in the sum assured in 1997 and on 
subsequent reviews I think it is more likely than not the plan has been of benefit to her to 
date. In the circumstances I don't think iy would be fair or reasonable to ask Phoenix to 
repay the premiums.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman