DRN-3566769
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a package bank account.
What happened
Mr B opened his Select package bank account on 8 September 2003 which was a fee-paid 
account. Before this Mr Bs account was a free account.
Mr B tells us he was pressured to take the account when he was going through a difficult 
time, he was told the account would be cheaper, and he didnt use all the benefits the 
account came with. So, he feels the Select account was mis-sold to him.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr Bs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As 
Mr B disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think the package bank accounts were mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available.
There is limited information available from the time Mr B took out his Select account. But this 
isnt unusual considering how long ago the sale of the account took place and that 
businesses arent required to keep this type of information indefinitely.
Mr B has told us that he was pressured into taking the account at a time when he was 
vulnerable and not in a position to be deciding what account was best for him. While its 
clear Mr B was experiencing a difficult time, pressure is a subjective argument and to uphold 
Mr Bs complaint for this reason I would need to see persuasive evidence from the time to 
support Mr Bs allegation, which I havent seen.
Lloyds have told us that it recommended the Select account to Mr B which means it had to 
check the account was suitable for Mr Bs circumstances at the time.
At the time the Select account was sold to Mr B it cost £5 per month and came with 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, sentinel card protection, purchase protection and 
extended warranty.
Select account holders also benefitted from lower rates on personal loans and an interest 
free overdraft facility up to £50 (with beneficial rates for overdrafts that exceeded this 
amount).
At the time the account was sold Mr B made regular use of his overdraft facility, so I think the 
preferential overdraft rates were useful to him. Mr B also drove at the time so this benefit 
would also have been useful and proved to be useful on seven occasions while Mr B held 
his account.
Mr B tells us he didnt use the mobile phone insurance that came with the account and 
couldnt even if he wanted to as he wasnt told he would need to register the phone first. I 
cant be certain what was said at the time the account was sold to Mr B but as a claim wasnt 
attempted under the policy I dont know if it would be accepted or not.
Mr B has further told us that he didnt have a need for the travel insurance that came with the 
account as he didnt travel.
Package bank accounts are not tailored to the individual and they are offered to many 
different customers with different circumstances. So, its not unusual to find that often 
customers either dont use or are unable to use all the account benefits. This does not mean 
the account was mis-sold.
From the information available I think Mr B had a need for the Select account and used the 
benefits that came with it. The remaining benefits were also available to Mr B if he had a 
need for them in the future. So, I think the recommendation made by Lloyds for Mr B to take 
the Select account was reasonable and I dont think the account was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman