DRN-2318437
The complaint
Miss Ls complaint is about charges shes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss L acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Miss L responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned 
in the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that have been provided. The 
investigator has set out the standard required under the BVRLA guidance correctly 
and I agree with his assessment, that the damage to the front bumper is not 
evidenced (I cant see a scratch) and should be removed but that all other charges 
are evidenced in the photographs provided. 
MBFS have charged Miss L for the replacement of a tyre that they say had the wrong 
speed rating. But Miss L has provided evidence that tyre was fitted by a Mercedes 
dealership. In those circumstances it cant be fair to levy a charge to rectify a mistake 
made by an approved dealership. I think Miss L was entitled to rely on their expertise 
to fit the correct part. So MBFS should remove that charge of £157.91 but they dont 
need to refund the fitting charge as thats an expense Miss L would have incurred 
regardless of what tyre was fitted. 
Whilst I understand Miss Ls frustration at a second inspection being completed I 
dont think it would be fair for me to suggest MBFS were unreasonable when carrying 
out a further inspection. The BVRLA guidance allows for that if conditions prevent the 
vehicle from being inspected and Im persuaded that was most likely the case here. 
Im not persuaded that the damage to the car is most likely to have happened in the 
time between the first aborted inspection and the inspection upon which MBFS are 
relying. I say that because:
othe delay between inspections was only eight days, but Miss L had had the 
car for three years and nine months at that point and had driven about 28,000 
miles in it. I think the opportunity for the damage to occur in Miss Ls 
possession was far greater than the chance of it happening in the eight days 
following the first inspection. 
oIve looked at the nature of the damage and I note it isnt limited to one area 
of the car as I would expect if the car had been bumped in the eight days 
following the initial inspection. The damage since the first inspection covers 
several different body panels and three of the wheels. If the damage had 
happened after the first inspection there would need to be several different 
incidents were damage occurred and I think thats unlikely.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint in part. 
Putting things right
MBFS should remove charges for refurbishment to the front bumper and also remove the 
incorrect speed tyre charge. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to amend the invoice removing the £210 charge for the front 
bumper and the incorrect speed tyre charge of £157.91.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman