DRN-3613264
The complaint
Miss L complains that a car acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality because the odometer reading was incorrectly recorded before she 
acquired the car.
What happened
In August 2020 Miss L was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo.
At the point of supply, the car had an odometer reading of 41,140. In April 2022 Miss L 
decided to sell the car. She received a valuation but was later told that the mileage on the 
car was incorrect and that its value was £2500 less than the valuation shed initially been 
given.
Miss L complained to MotoNovo. She said she believed the odometer had been tampered 
with before she acquired the car. In response, MotoNovo said the previous mileage was 
probably recorded in kilometres which would explain the discrepancy. MotoNovo also said 
that because the car had been supplied more than 6 months ago, it was up to Miss L to 
provide an independent report to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Miss L wasnt happy with the response and brought her complaint to this service. She wants 
MotoNovo to cover the difference in value of the car because of the mileage discrepancy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that although there was a discrepancy 
in the mileage history of the car prior to Miss L acquiring it, there was no discrepancy with 
the mileage at the point of supply.
Miss L didnt agree. She said her complaint wasnt about the price she had paid for the car 
when she acquired it, but that the historic mileage discrepancy had affected the valuation 
shed been given for the car now. Miss L said she had no way of correcting the error in the 
documentation and said she wouldnt have purchased the car if shed known about the 
mileage history error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the mileage history of the car. I can see that when Miss L acquired the car in 
August 2020, it had a recorded mileage of 41,140.
The initial MOT dated 3 May 2018, recorded mileage of 37,050. The next MOT dated 24 
August 2019, recorded mileage of 31,273.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that theres a discrepancy because the recorded 
mileage in 2018 is higher than the recorded mileage in 2019. It seems likely that the 2018 
mileage is wrong. I cant be certain of what caused the error. In its final response, MotoNovo 
suggested that the 2018 mileage had been recorded in kilometres rather than miles. But I 
think its equally possible that theres been a clerical error with a number transcribed 
incorrectly.
The real issue here is whether theres been a misrepresentation about the mileage. A 
misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into a 
contract.
Theres nothing to suggest that the mileage recorded at the point of supply is incorrect. The 
mileage on the odometer at the point of supply (41,140) matches the mileage showing in the 
finance agreement. Theres no evidence to suggest that the odometer was tampered with at 
the point of supply. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im unbale to say that theres been a misrepresentation here, 
because theres nothing to suggest that the mileage stated at the point of supply was 
incorrect.
I understand the point that Miss L is making about the historic mileage discrepancy affecting 
the value of the car. Miss L has said that when she went to sell the car in April 2022, she 
was offered a higher amount before the valuer found out about the mileage discrepancy. 
Miss L says shes now been offered £2000 less for the car because of the discrepancy.
Ive taken what Miss L has said into account and Ive looked at the evidence shes provided. 
The email from the valuer states that the car was valued at £7500 but that the value was 
reduced by £2000 because the current mileage couldnt be verified.
Im not persuaded by this evidence. The mileage discrepancy is historic and pre-dates Miss 
Ls acquisition of the car. it follows that, if the mileage discrepancy had affected the value of 
the car, it would have affected the value of the car at the point of supply to Miss L. MotoNovo 
has confirmed that the car was valued based on its condition and mileage at the point of 
supply, and that the historic mileage discrepancy should not impact on the value of the car 
now. 
I understand Miss Ls frustration at the reduced price shes been offered by the valuation 
company. However, valuations are based on a number of factors and are subject to change. 
Further, Ive only seen information from a single valuation company here. Im unable to say 
that the value of the car is less as a result of the historic mileage discrepancy, to the 
exclusion of all other factors.
Taking everything into account, Im unable to say that theres been a  misrepresentation 
here. I wont be asking MotoNovo to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman