DRN-4333741
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) handling and partial decline of a claim
he made under his let property commercial insurance policy.
Where Ive referred to AXA below, this also includes any actions or communications from
agents acting on behalf of AXA during the claim.
What happened
Mr S owns a property which is let out to tenants, he insures the property with AXA.
In July 2022 the tenants moved out and Mr S made a claim to AXA for damage to the
render, porch and garage door.
AXAs position on the claim changed several times, and Mr S was given conflicting
information about what would and wouldnt be covered.
AXA accepted their claim handling had been poor and offered compensation, along with
settling the garage door part of the claim. They also paid towards the render, but not a
sufficient amount for Mr S to carry out repairs. AXA didnt increase this when Mr S raised
concerns as they said this part of the claim had been incorrectly accepted  but they didnt
ask Mr S to return the settlement theyd paid.
Mr S was unhappy with the conflicting claims decisions from AXA, and with their overall
handling of his claim. So, he approached this service.
Our investigator upheld the claim part of the complaint. She noted the garage part of the
claim had been accepted, so she didnt need to reach a finding on this point. But she said
AXA should have accepted the full render claim, so recommended they settle the quote for
£4,800 (deducting the £1,271.02 already paid) with 8% simple interest added to the
additional amount due. She also said AXA should accept the porch claim as AXA hadnt
shown an exclusion applied and she proposed Mr S obtain three quotes, AXA pay the
lowest, with 8% simple interest added.
The investigator didnt recommend the compensation be increased, as she thought what had
already been paid by AXA was reasonable.
AXA partially accepted the investigators recommendations for the render. But they
maintained the porch decision was correct. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case
has been passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to respond to my initial findings before I reached 
my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator on part of the 
complaint, Im issuing a provisional decision to give both parties an opportunity to 
comment on my initial findings before I reach my final decision.
Ill separately consider the overall service Mr S has received, along with each of the 
claimed areas of damage.
The overall service
Firstly, I should explain that I dont intend on commenting on every event which 
occurred throughout the claim. Instead, Ill focus on the key points which are 
important in me reaching my provisional decision. I dont mean this as a discourtesy, 
instead it reflects the informal nature of this service, and my role within it. But Id like 
to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the information theyve provided 
when reaching my provisional decision.
AXA accepts the service they have provided fell short. And this is why they have 
offered compensation during the claim. From AXAs final responses, they have 
offered:
21 October 2022 - lack of communication, poor service and no call backs - 
£250 compensation. Declining the claim was incorrect - £250 compensation.
16 January 2023  they should have declined the claim from the outset. Since 
the settlement dispute the claim has since been declined. Inconvenience has 
been caused by asking Mr S to obtain quotes. £400 for the first complaint and 
£250 for the second. An additional £25 for the first complaint and £25 for the 
second due to not responding to the complaints in time.
Our investigator thought AXA has paid a total of £700 across both complaints  and 
said this was fair. From my interpretation, I actually think its £1,200  but AXAs final 
response and file submissions arent clear.
Id invite AXA to clarify in response to my provisional decision whether they have in 
fact paid a total of £1,200 or £700 across the complaints.
But regardless of this, ultimately, I think for what happened and the confusion that 
has been caused by accepting, rejecting, partially accepting and making payment, 
and then rejecting Mr S claims, £700 compensation is reasonable. So, it also follows 
that if it is in fact £1,200 that AXA has paid, I also think thats fair too.So, as it stands, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my 
provisional decision, I dont intend to direct AXA to increase the amount of 
compensation paid.
The garage door
Ultimately this part of the claim was accepted. It wasnt accepted from the outset, but 
this decision was later changed by AXA. And its since been settled. As this point isnt 
in dispute, I dont need to make a decision on this part of the claim.
But I have taken into account what happened with this part of the claim when 
considering the claim handling and appropriate compensation above.
The render
This part of the claim was declined, then accepted and AXA made a payment of 
£1,271.02. Mr S was unhappy with the amount, and AXA then offered to increase this 
to £2,700. But before this was paid, the claim was then declined again. AXA didnt 
ask Mr S to return the £1,271.02 settlement they had already paid.
Our investigator said AXA should settle Mr Ss quote of £4,800. And AXA agreed.
So, this point is no longer in dispute. AXA has confirmed the settlement amount as:
Mr S quote £4,800
Minus payment already made - £1,271.02
Minus excess under the policy - £250
Remainder to pay = £3,278.98
AXA will also need to add 8% simple interest from the date the first payment was 
made, to the date of settlement of the remainder.
Whilst I dont need to make a decision on this point as AXA has already accepted this 
part of the claim following the investigators recommendations, I have taken into 
account AXAs handling of this part of the claim when considering the overall service 
and appropriate compensation above.
The porch
This part of the claim remains in dispute as AXA maintains this isnt covered under 
Mr S policy.
There was extensive ivy growing on Mr S property (the render claim was for 
accidental damage when the tenants removed the ivy). Mr S has made a claim for 
damage to his porch, which he says needs rebuilding.
AXA says the damage is gradual and occurred over time. Theyve relied on a general
exclusion under Mr S policy to decline the claim:General exclusions
These exclusions apply throughout your policy.
We will not pay for:
Gradual damage/deterioration/maintenance
Any loss or damage caused gradually or by wear and tear, depreciation, the 
effects of light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot or fungus and costs 
that arise from the normal use, maintenance and upkeep of your buildings 
and landlords contents.
Our investigator said that it wasnt reasonable for AXA to decline this part of the 
claim. She said the images taken didnt show the inside of the porch. She said that 
whilst it may have been damaged gradually, Mr S wouldnt have been aware of it, 
and reported it as soon as he was. So, she said AXA should accept this part of Mr S 
claim.
Whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr S, unless anything changes 
as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, Im not minded to conclude 
AXA has acted unfairly by relying on this exclusion and declining this part of Mr S 
claim. Ill explain why.
The claim was made for damage to the porch, and Mr S said the following repairs 
were required:
In relation to the porch, which would include the removal of the existing porch 
and porch roof, disposal of the existing porch, installing a new porch, paint, 
painting the new porch, re-installing the light fitting inside the porch, 
re-installing the front porch door and locks, the verbal quote I received for the 
above a few months ago was £4,500 plus VAT.
AXAs claim agent said that the porch was suffering from historic damage, based on 
street view images of the property. Our investigator said it wasnt reasonable to rely 
on this, as the internal damage couldnt be seen. She also said there was no other 
images of the internal damage. She concluded AXA hadnt sufficiently shown the 
damage was gradual or therefore that the exclusion applied.
However, AXAs claim agent did actually take internal photos in September 2022. 
They also took photos of the outside of the porch and its roof. And this shows where 
the ivy had entered the porch structure. But internally it looks to be old ivy, whilst 
externally it appears to be alive and growing.
However, I dont think relying in part on the external images is unreasonable here. 
AXA and Mr S have been sent images which Ive considered when reaching my 
provisional decision. Dating back to 2017, it can be seen that ivy was growing around the side of the porch 
and up the front of the main property. It appears to be the same in 2018. By 2020 the 
ivy looks to have grown significantly around the porch and started to spread out 
across the front of the property, and across the porch roof. In 2021 the ivy has been 
cut back considerably, leaving brown dead ivy and damaged render. But by 2022 
when AXA inspected, the ivy had been allowed to grow back, and internally in the 
porch, old dead ivy is visible, presumably remnants from being cut back between 
2018-2020.
So, it appears that over the years, ivy has been allowed to grow before being cut 
back and then allowed to re-grow. And this was all around the porch which is being 
claimed for. The fact that it has come through the roof internally, and remains dead in 
situ in 2022, indicates it has entered at some point in the past.
The porch roof has been identified as sagging. And if ivy has been allowed to grow 
and enter the porch over a number of years, its likely this has allowed gradual 
damage to happen. The fact its made it inside the porch means there would have 
been gaps created externally, and even when cut back, its likely this would have 
allowed water ingress over time, and this along with ivy entering the porch supports 
why the roof likely would be sagging.
The images from the street view over the years and taken by AXA in 2022 also do 
appear to show the porch roof is historically in a poor condition too, appearing to 
deteriorate whilst being encapsulated by ivy over the years, from at least 2017. So, I 
think they show damage has, on balance, occurred gradually over time.
Furthermore, the notes indicate Mr S was aware of the potential for the ivy to cause 
damage, as he said that he had asked the tenants to maintain the ivy, and it was 
them doing so which led to the render damage. Mr S has said a letting agent was 
responsible for checking the property, but the file notes also indicate Mr S said they 
hadnt been doing this.
But regardless of whether the letting agent was responsible for managing the 
property and tenancy, but didnt then check, or the tenants didnt control the ivy 
either, the maintenance, upkeep and damage mitigation responsibility still ultimately 
rests with Mr S overall as it is his property. And given Mr S was aware of a potential 
issue and put the tenant on notice, it ultimately would have still been for him to 
ensure damage wasnt being caused to the porch. Just because there was a tenant 
living there, and a letting agent managing the tenancy, I dont think this absolves 
Mr S of any responsibility for preventing damage to his own property.
Having taken everything into account, on balance, Im minded to conclude the 
images and all the information provided support the fact that the porch has been 
damaged gradually, which is excluded under Mr S policy. So, unless anything 
changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, I dont intend to 
direct AXA to do anything further in relation to the porch.
Therefore, I was minded to direct AXA to pay Mr S the remainder of the render quote with 
8% simple interest added, but I wasnt minded to direct them to do anything further.The responses to my provisional decision
AXA responded and said they accepted the provisional decision. They didnt provide any 
further comments.
Mr S also responded, but he didnt agree with the provisional decision. He said the street 
view images dont show the ivy touching the porch until around ten months before the 
tenants moved out, and therefore deterioration didnt happen over time. 
Mr S said there was no deterioration, and the damage was caused by the tenant negligently 
removing the dead ivy, which is also what caused the render damage which was accepted 
by AXA. He says the damage to the porch was caused by the same incident.
He also said that whilst the provisional decision referred to an image of the dead ivy, hed 
also provided an image of when the ivy was alive. And he says that if ivy grows in a short 
time, it cant unsettle a porch, and therefore this shows it was the tenant removing the ivy 
that caused the damage.
In addition, Mr S disputes there is damage to the porch roof, and he says the images dont 
support that and there hasnt been any deterioration of the porch over time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional conclusions I reached, and the responses to 
it. Having done so, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr S, my final 
decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
The garage claim has been accepted and settled by AXA, so I dont need to direct them to 
do anything in relation to this.
AXA needs to pay Mr S a further £3,278.98 for the remainder of the render repairs. AXA also 
needs to add 8% simple interest to this amount from when the first payment was made 
towards the render to the date of settlement of the remainder.
In my provisional decision, I asked AXA to clarify whether it had paid £700 or £1,200 
compensation. But AXA didnt confirm this. However, as outlined in my provisional decision, 
if it was £700, I was satisfied this was already fair. So, if it was actually £1,200, it also follows 
that I think thats fair too. Therefore, Im not going to direct AXA to pay any further 
compensation.  
The porch
Mr S says none of the street view images show the ivy touching the porch until ten months 
before the tenant moved out. Whilst I note what Mr S says, I dont share the same view. I 
think the images support that it was in fact touching the porch, around the roof area, and 
progressively expanded and spread until being cut back in the 2021, before being allowed to 
regrow up to when AXA inspected in September 2022.Mr S also disputes there is damage to the porch roof. However, I dont share his view on this 
either. I think the images show visible damage to the porch roof, and this can be seen in the 
street view images, visibly around the permitter and to the flashing above. It does appear 
that the porch might have been painted at some point over the years, but it does appear to 
be that same porch which has been in situ throughout. I also think the images taken by AXA 
in 2022 do support the roof is suffering a level of wear and deterioration in particular around 
the edges, and patch appearance of the surface.
I can also confirm that I have seen Mr S image of the alive ivy. And Ive also seen images of 
the dead ivy. But ivy doesnt penetrate and enter a property in a matter of minutes or hours, 
it happens over time. And this would allow water to enter where the ivy had entered too. In 
the image Mr S has provided of the alive ivy, cracks can be seen around the paintwork and 
edges. And the images taken by AXA also show deterioration of the structure internally in 
similar areas.
I note that Mr S says the images show the alive ivy, and this wouldnt be able to unsettle a 
porch in a short period of time, and therefore this shows the tenant caused the damage 
when negligently removing the ivy. However, on balance, I dont think its likely an entire 
porch would require full ground up replacement as a result of carelessly removing ivy as 
Mr S says, as a porch is a solid structure. 
So, whilst I do share Mr S view that a quick growth of ivy wouldnt unsettle a porch, I also 
dont think removing the ivy would either, given only a small amount actually entered the 
porch. And I think this supports, on balance, that there has been ongoing deterioration over 
time, which now means the full porch needs replacing.
I also note what Mr S said about the render being accepted. However, the render is a thin 
weatherproofing surface on the outside of the property, and it has clearly cracked and fallen 
in the areas of the ivy removal. Whereas the porch is a significant structure, which wouldnt 
have been susceptible to damage in the same way as render, so I dont think its 
unreasonable to consider each independently of each other. 
For the reasons outlined in my provisional decision and above, on balance, Im persuaded its 
most likely damage has occurred over time. Therefore, I dont think AXA has acted unfairly 
by relying on the gradual damage and wear and tear exclusion in the policy to decline this 
part of Mr S claim.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct AXA Insurance Plc to:
Pay Mr S £3,278.98 which is the remainder due for the render repairs
Add 8% simple interest* to this amount from when the first payment was made 
towards the render to the date of settlement of the remainder
* If AXA Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman