DRN-3038333
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has unfairly declined
their claim under their home insurance policy for damage to their garden wall.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out home insurance with Ageas. In March 2020, a vehicle had been left
on adjoining commercial premises without the hand brake having been properly applied and 
the vehicle rolled into the garden wall of Mr and Mrs Ss property.
Mr and Mrs S claimed on their policy for damage to the garden wall which they said was as a
result of the impact. Ageas obtained a claims management report which stated that the 
damage was due to gradual deterioration and the age of the wall and Ageas therefore
declined the claim. They then appointed a representative who provided his own report which
stated that the damage to the garden wall was caused by the vehicle.
Ageas maintained its position and issued a final response letter in September 2020 which
rejected Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, so Mr and Mrs S asked this service to investigate.
The services investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He noted that there was no dispute 
that an incident occurred. As to the cause of the damage, he said he was persuaded that 
there was more detail in the Ageas report which lead him to think that if there was any 
damage due to vehicle impact, it was most likely to be very little. He was also more 
persuaded by the photographic evidence produced by Ageas. He said that the cracks in the 
wall werent typical of sudden impact and looked more gradual in nature. He thought that the 
policy didnt cover the damage. Based on this, he didnt find that Ageas did anything wrong 
in declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with this view and the matter has therefore been referred to me to
look at it afresh in my role as Ombudsman.
In August 2021, I issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I 
intended to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint as follows; -
Its my role to consider whether Ageas has acted fairly and reasonably in the light of its
policy terms and conditions in declining Mr and Mrs Ss claim on the available facts and
evidence. In all the circumstances, my provisional judgment is that I cant say that Ageas has
acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. Ill explain why.
Turning first of all to Mr and Mrs Ss home insurance policy, garden walls are included within
the definition of buildings and the buildings are covered for loss or damage caused by the
buildings being hit by vehicles. The cover is therefore in place subject to any exclusions.
Under the General Exclusions section, the policy states as follows; -
b) We do not cover any loss or damage that happens gradually over a period of
time, such as rust, corrosion, fading and shrinkage.
c) As with most insurers, you are not covered for any loss or damage resulting
from wear, tear and depreciation.
I have looked at the reports and photographs produced by Ageas and by Mr and Mrs Ss
representative.
With regard to the Ageas report, I note the confirmation of cause of damage assessment
reached by Ageas representative following his visit to the site as follows; -
On inspection on the side wall I could see no marks on wall due to vehicle impact. The
areas of damage are around where the roots from the bush in the garden. I feel the roots
and soil behind the wall is pushing it out and causing the cracks and render to blow, as you
will see in the images. There was a [Coffee] sign which I believe took the force of the impact.
When inspecting the front wall, I could see that the render had cracked right away long the
front, the front gate does not close as both pillars have cracked and have pushed out. There
is no drainage in the wall to allow the water to drain away, and this is what caused the crack 
and is pushing the wall out due to pressure on the retaining wall.
Ageas conclude; -
Our surveyor has visited the property to survey reported impact damage to the front
wall. The surveyor has concluded the damage is age related not from impact.
All the render is cracking and de-bonding in various areas and the wall is cracked in
areas nowhere new [sic] the alleged impact area.
The wall is retaining earth and is of its age and there are no signs of maintenance has
been carried out to keep the wall structurally safe, the render has been allowed to debond 
and water has penetrated behind this. The wall is also a [sic] earth retaining wall
this has also contributed to is [sic] decay
Turning to the report produced by Mr and Mrs Ss representative, he states as follows; -
I have attached images from google maps taken in July 2019 that clearly show that there
are no cracks or noticeable damage to the retaining wall. I have attached two images taken
from my inspection that shows damage to the wall after the impact from the vehicle on
01/03/2020, you can clearly see where the car has hit the wall and the cracks that have
formed vertically to the pier and the horizontal cracks that go along the length of the wall
towards the gate.
If you were to view the wall in person you can clearly see a depression from where the car
has made contact and the render is falling away in that exact location. In your report it states
that the [coffee] sign has taken the force of the impact where it has obviously been
damaged because of the car but it is farcical to believe that this lightweight promotional sign
could stop a vehicle weighing over a tonne from colliding with the wall. The forecourt is
slightly sloped so the car would have gained momentum by the time it collided with Mr [Ss]
property. Mr and Mrs [S] have also remarked that prior to this incident the gate was able to
be open and closed (they have been at this residence for over 25 years) and since the
impact they have not been able to close it. Again this was not an issue before so to say that
this is another issue with the render blowing is incorrect.
I note from Ageas records that there was a police report regarding the incident, which
seems to have included CCTV images supplied by the garage. Ageas had issued a cheque
and were awaiting this report at the time their claims management report was received,
leading to Mr and Mrs Ss being declined shortly afterwards. Its most unfortunate that thisreport hasnt been made available in the circumstances.
The photographs are nevertheless very helpful in my view and Ive been able to come to my
provisional conclusion without reference to the police report.
I agree with our investigator that the Google-map images from July 2019 which have been
supplied by Mr and Mrs Ss representative are taken from some distance and in bright
sunshine which does mean that there is some glare. They are nevertheless clear images,
which in my view would have shown evidence of some of the damage at this stage if the
damage was due to age, wear and tear and gradual deterioration. They do not.
Im not satisfied that the extensive damage and cracking to the wall, visible in the
photographs taken in April 2020 by Ageas representative would have occurred within nine
months if it was due to gradual factors. Its far more likely to have occurred due to sudden
impact from a heavy and direct force. In my view, the cracking is consistent with a vehicle
rolling into the wall from the adjacent (sloped) commercial premises.
I have discounted some of the photographs included within the Ageas report. The first four
photographs (page 2 onwards), as well as the sixth show a low wall adjacent to the forecourt
which I dont believe to be the subject of the claim. The fifth photograph is helpful as it shows
the giant plastic coffee cup advertisement which Ageas says would have taken the force of
the impact. I find this implausible, as the plastic cup is clearly a flimsy structure. The
photograph helpfully shows that the point of impact was likely to be the wall and pier in front
of the plastic structure. The sixth and seventh photographs show render which had, as at
April 2020, recently been dislodged.
Ageas states that Mr and Mrs S accepted that there was some historical damage to the wall
and that there were some cracks to the wall prior to the incident. Im satisfied on the balance
of probabilities however that the most direct and significant damage and cracking which was
visible in April 2020, was caused by the vehicle impact in March 2020. Im also satisfied that
the gate can no longer be closed and that this occurred as a result of the vehicle impact to
the wall.
Finally, and importantly, I note that in correspondence from the police in April 2020, it was
recorded that a witness who worked at the commercial premises made the collision report to
the police; has mentioned damage to an adjoining wall. That witness, who appears to have
been present at the time of the incident, references damage to the wall. This clearly
supports the fact that the visible damage was new damage.
Taking all the above evidence into account, Im satisfied that on the balance of probabilities,
the serious vertical and horizontal cracking to the garden wall, visible in April 2020, was
caused by the sudden impact of the vehicle colliding with it.
In all the circumstances, its likely that in my final decision Ill find that Ageas didnt act fairly
or reasonably in declining Mr and Mrs Ss claim for damage to their garden wall.
Its also likely that Ill award a sum in compensation as Mr and Mrs S have been
disadvantaged, the garden wall not having been fixed for a considerable period of time. In
view of Ageas response, they also understandably felt it necessary to appoint a
representative to prepare a report and to correspond with Ageas and this service on their 
behalf.
I said that I was minded to issue a final decision to require Ageas to; -
- Settle Mr and Mrs Ss claim on the basis that the terms and conditions of the policyhave been met.
- Pay Mr and Mrs S the sum of £350 for their time and trouble in having to pursue this
complaint and appoint a representative in order to do so.
In my provisional decision, I also asked both Ageas and Mr and Mrs S if they had any further 
comments or evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S do not have any further information or evidence to add to the provisional 
decision, however Ageas has stated that it disagrees with it. 
Ageas states that having gone back to its surveyor, its position that remains unchanged. 
Ageas dispute that there is any clear evidence of vehicle impact to the wall. It also states 
that it has provided previous evidence of pre-existing damage to the rendered retaining wall.
Ageas is of the strong opinion that; the cracking to the wall is the result of expansion and 
contraction where water has got into the render, frozen and then thawed causing to cause 
the cracking. It says that its surveyor advised that a small section of render could be 
removed to assess if the brickwork is damaged as if there had been the impact being 
described then the brickwork should also be damaged.
Ageas concludes by saying that the wall damage is a result of wear and tear rather than 
impact.
Ive reviewed the evidence again and carefully considered Ageas further submissions based 
on its surveyors opinion. It does not provide any further persuasive evidence however and 
does not change my preliminary conclusions.
Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that although there may have been some 
historical damage and cracks to the wall prior to the incident, the most direct and significant 
damage and cracking was caused by the vehicle impact. This is supported by the account of 
damage recorded by an independent witness who worked at the adjoining commercial 
premises.
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
  
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint for the reasons given above and require Ageas Insurance 
Limited to:
- Settle Mr and Mrs Ss claim on the basis that the terms and conditions of the policy
have been met.
- Pay Mr and Mrs S the sum of £350 for their time and trouble in having to pursue this
complaint and appoint a representative in order to do so.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021. 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman