DRN-3195689
The complaint
Mr S complains that Match the Cash Limited irresponsibly brought about a loan that was 
provided to him.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company. But for ease, Ill refer to all 
submissions as if they were made directly by him.
What happened
Match the Cash is a peer to peer lending platform. It operated the electronic system in 
relation to the lending which led to Mr S loan being brought about. The loan was for £3,500, 
with a 24 month term. The repayments for this loan were around £215 per month.
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional decision. I asked both parties to respond 
with any further comments or submissions. My provisional findings were:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good 
industry practice on our website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this 
complaint.
Having considered all of the information Ive seen so far; Im currently minded to say 
that Match the Cash acted reasonably when bringing about this loan for Mr S.
Mr S says that Match the Cash did not complete proportionate checks before 
bringing about this loan. I disagree with him in this instance. 
Match the Cash is aware that it needs to complete reasonable checks before bringing 
about any lending for Mr S. In essence it needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to establish that Mr S was able to make the necessary 
repayments for the loan. The checks that Match the Cash completed needed
to be reasonable in relation to the amount of credit that Mr S was applying for.
In this instance Match the Cash has taken details of Mr S income and expenditure; 
and sought to verify this by checking his credit file as well as obtaining copies of his 
bank statements. The results of these showed that Mr S had a monthly income of 
approximately £4,300. He had an existing total debt of around £3,200 which was 
largely made up from a credit card. Mr S confirmed that he lived with family and paid 
a contribution to household bills. 
Whilst his credit file didnt show this; the bank statements that Match the Cash saw
demonstrated that he also had a number of open high cost credit accounts. Match 
the Cash noted these commitments in his application; and taking into account 
everything the searches showed; it demonstrated that Mr S had the sufficient income 
to meet the necessary repayments of the loan.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr S complaint; Im not persuaded that Match the Cash 
needed to complete further checks. Ultimately; it has taken verification information 
from Mr S and has used this information to conduct the relevant affordability 
assessment on him. These checks, and the supporting information it gathered; 
enabled Match the Cash to have a good understanding of Mr S finances; and as 
such Im satisfied they were proportionate in this instance.
When looking at the information that was provided; Im currently minded to say that
Match the Cash made a fair decision to lend. The statements which were gathered at 
the time of the application demonstrated that Mr S had sufficient disposable income 
to meet the repayments for this loan. The statements reflect the information which  
Mr S provided at the time of applying; namely that he had a monthly income of 
approximately £4,300 per month; and had little in way of regular outgoings.
The statements suggest that Mr S was spending a considerable amount of money 
per month on discretionary items such as eating and drinking out. This would suggest 
that he had a sufficient amount of disposable income. There are also entries on the 
statements suggesting that Mr S was sending money to and from savings account  
again suggesting that he had sufficient income to making savings. Mr S balances 
never enter into his overdraft; and remain in a sufficiently positive balance throughout 
the time period shown. 
From reviewing this information, it is in line with the income and expenditure 
assessment Mr S completed; and shows that it was likely Mr S had sufficient 
disposable income to meet the repayments of this loan.
I acknowledge that Mr S was also using other forms of credit (such as unsecured 
loans); but even taking into consideration these outgoings; Mr S still seemingly had 
sufficient income to meet the repayments of this loan and those of his other creditors. 
There does not appear to be a pattern of dependency on other forms of credit for       
Mr S to balance his finances; and his overall level of debt wasnt at the point that 
further lending would be unsustainable. It seems Mr S was able to manage his 
finances; and was instead using further income to increase his disposable income 
further. Im not currently persuaded that there was sufficient evidence Mr S was in 
hardship; or that he couldnt afford the loan repayments as required.
Based on the information provided so far Im currently minded to say that            
Match the Cash completed proportionate checks; and the information it gathered 
suggested that this loan was likely affordable to Mr S. It therefore follows that my 
provisional decision is that Match the Cash acted reasonably when bringing about 
this loan for Mr S.
Match the Cash responded and agreed with the provisional decision. Mr S responded 
disagreeing with the outcome and provided further information. Mr S explained that his 
salary the year prior to the loan was significant lower than the amount Match the Cash had 
used. Mr S also explained that he had other forms of debt which had not shown on the credit 
report; and therefore his outgoings were higher than relied on by Match the Cash had used. 
He also explained that he had a further current account which were overdrawn. Mr S 
maintained that the loan was unaffordable and Match the Cash had acted unfairly in relation 
to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that my provisional decision should stand. That is to say, Im 
satisfied that Match the Cash acted reasonably in relation to Mr S complaint.
I appreciate Mr S comments; and the further information he provided; however this does not 
alter the fact that Im satisfied Match the Cash completed proportionate checks in this 
instance. 
I say this for the same reason as I set out in my provisional decision. Namely that            
Match the Cashs checks needed to be proportionate to the amount being lent. In this 
instance it completed a credit file search and verified the information that Mr S had provided 
with bank statements. Considering these checks gave Match the Cash a decent 
understanding of Mr S financial circumstances Im satisfied that it did not need to complete 
further checks or seek to get further information from Mr S before it made its decision.
Match the Cash is entitled to rely on the information it gathered at the time; unless there was 
sufficient information to show the information was inaccurate. Looking at the credit report 
and the statements being provided; Im satisfied that Match the Cash was entitled to rely on 
the information it saw. I also note that there isnt any information that Ive seen which 
suggests Mr S made Match the Cash aware of further information; and as such it is not 
unreasonable for Match the Cash to be unaware of it.
The information Match the Cash had suggested that Mr S had sufficient disposable income 
to meet the repayments of this loan. And as Ive explained above, Im satisfied it did not 
need to complete further checks. Therefore, Im satisfied that Match the Cash acted 
reasonably at the time of the application. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Match the Cash Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman