DRN-3517307
The complaint
J, a limited company, complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt treat it fairly 
in relation to a business loan account. 
J is represented by its director, Mr K. But for ease, Ill refer to his actions as those of J.
What happened
J took out as business loan account with RBS in 2019 for £40,000. It was to be repaid over 
60 months, at about £860 month. The interest rate was 10.47% per year. Interest accrued 
daily on the outstanding balance and was charged to the loan account each month. This 
meant if payments werent made in line with the agreement the balance would increase, and 
more interest would be charged overall. The loan was guaranteed by Js director.
In 2021 Js loan was in arrears and it wanted some support. RBS offered to refinance the 
outstanding balance of £31,400. There were two options:
- Over 84 months, at 12.90%, with monthly payments of £569.61
- Over 96 months, at 13.65%, with monthly payments of £539.33
J didnt think it was being treated fairly. In its view RBS should have offered refinance at the 
original interest rate, and it should have waived interest accrued on loan arrears. RBS 
responded to say the interest rates it was offering on the refinance options were the current 
rates. It also said as interest had been applied correctly, it wouldnt be waiving it. J remained 
dissatisfied so it asked our service for an independent review. J explained it considered RBS 
increasing the interest rate and not waiting interest was taking advantage of it.
The investigator didnt find RBS had acted unfairly. She concluded, in summary: It was fair 
for RBS to offer to refinance the loan over a longer term to make payments more affordable; 
She was satisfied it was for RBS to decide what interest rates it was willing to lend at; She 
concluded there was no requirement for RBS to waive interest which had been applied 
correctly; And she didnt consider RBS had acted unfairly in some other way.
J didnt agree. In its view, RBS actions could lead to it failing as a business and would 
therefore impact its director personally. J also said RBS should have acted more promptly 
when asked for support. The investigators opinion remained unchanged. As an agreement 
couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The loan was taken out by a limited company for business purposes. This was therefore 
business lending. The director may have provided a guarantee, but the only eligible 
complainant here is J. As J isnt a consumer (a natural person acting for purposes outside 
his trade, business or profession), it doesnt benefit from consumer related protections.
J missed payments in 2019, 2020 and 2021. Some of this pre-date the pandemic, so Im not 
persuaded Js payment difficulties arise solely and directly from pandemic related difficulties. 
That being said, I accept the pandemic most likely didnt help. 
Having reviewed RBS contemporaneous notes Im satisfied it was open to working with J to 
find a solution to the arrears on the loan and issues with Js other banking matters. I accept 
there were occasions where RBS let J down, such as when an appointment was missed (for 
which RBS paid fair compensation). Overall, however, I find RBS was mostly waiting for 
information from J and I dont agree RBS caused unreasonable delays, or provided poor 
customer service, to the extent further compensation (or the waiving of interest) is 
appropriate. 
J considers the refinance options unfair. I, however, find them a positive action on the part of 
RBS. RBS could have considered the loan in default and sought full repayment immediately. 
Instead, it came up with alternatives which would deal with the arrears and allow for lower 
(more affordable) payments going forward. J may dislike the interest rates being offered, but 
I dont find they were that different to the original rate and in any case, its for RBS to decide 
on what terms its willing to lend. 
Payments to the loan were missed. This led to the balance not decreasing as intended and 
therefore more interest being charged. While I accept J would like RBS to waive this 
additional interest, I see no grounds for me to reasonably require it to so. I say this because 
Im satisfied RBS has charged interest in accordance with the loan agreement.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman