DRN-3353833
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly sold his outstanding credit card debt to a third 
party.
What happened
Mr M held a credit card account with Lloyds.
During 2020, Mr Ms income was adversely impacted as a result of the global pandemic. Mr 
M says Lloyds agreed to provide a payment holiday to help him. But following its expiry, Mr 
M was still struggling financially.
Mr M says that following discussions with Lloyds in 2021, they agreed a payment freeze on 
his account. He says Lloyds told him he had until 22 July 2021 to sort out payment of the 
amount he owed. But when he called them on that date, he was told his account had been 
passed to a debt collection agency on 21 July 2021. He says Lloyds then contradicted this 
when he called them again. He was told the transfer had taken place on 26 July 2021.
Mr M didnt think Lloyds had acted fairly. He said hed not had any issues with making 
payments in the past and feels that Lloyds shouldve been more supportive and worked with 
him to agree a resolution to his problems.
Having complained to Lloyds, Mr M received their response in a letter. Lloyds didnt agree 
theyd done anything wrong. They said theyd previously explained why his account had 
defaulted.
Mr M wasnt happy with Lloyds response to his complaint. So, he referred matters to this 
service to investigate further. Having considered Mr Ms complaint, our adjudicator didnt 
think Lloyds had treated him unfairly. Mr M didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. He 
thought Lloyds were wrong to move his account to a debt collection agency earlier than they 
should have. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in April 2020 which 
explained what they expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising 
out of the global pandemic. They provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
Further guidance was issued by the FCA in July 2020. This extended these measures, and 
where consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised 
to freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months.
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the 
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty. But 
it was down to their discretion and customers circumstances. Reporting to credit reference 
agencies was reintroduced for people that had already had the maximum six months of 
payment deferrals.
From what Mr M has told this service, I believe he benefitted from a repayment holiday 
under the FCAs guidance. But when this ended, Mr M was still struggling financially. Mr Ms 
complaint doesnt relate to any COVID payment deferral agreed. Rather, it relates to Lloyds 
actions since then.
In situations where support under the FCAs special guidance has been exhausted, Lloyds 
would be expected to consider alternative forms of forbearance. The key rules and standard 
that apply are set down in the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) Section 7. 
These include:
Suspending, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges
Allowing arrears to be deferred where immediate payment could cause payments to 
be unsustainable or where the term would not be increased excessively
Accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow the 
consumer to recover from an unexpected reduction in income.
Ive considered Lloyds file notes together with letters they sent to Mr M. Following expiry of 
the payment deferral period, Lloyds agreed a nil payment plan until January 2021. This was 
confirmed in a letter they sent in October 2020. The letter is clear that while Mr M didnt need 
to pay anything during the plan, his normal monthly payments were still due and would 
accumulate as arrears, if not paid. Lloyds also agreed a temporary interest freeze on his 
account in October 2020.  Lloyds actions here appear to comply with the FCA rules and 
standards above.
In January 2021, Lloyds wrote to Mr M to tell him the payment plan had ended, and the 
outstanding arrears were now due. During further discussions with Mr M in February 2021, 
Lloyds reviewed his income and expenditure. Mr M offered to pay £100 per month towards 
what he owed. But the review showed that Mr M had a shortfall of income relative to his 
financial commitments. It wouldnt have been either fair or reasonable to commit Mr M to 
those payments. So, they agreed a further nil payment plan and confirmed this in a letter. 
They said this plan would end in May 2021.
Lloyds wrote to Mr M again in May 2021 when the plan expired. The outstanding arrears had 
increased following the nil payment plan. Because of this, Lloyds also issued a default notice 
explaining that arrears needed to be paid by the beginning of June 2021.
Mr M contacted Lloyds again when he received their letters, but he couldnt clear the arrears. 
Lloyds agreed a 30-day hold on Mr Ms account. They wrote to him to confirm this and said 
theyd temporarily stopped charging interest. They suggested Mr M use this time to get some 
independent advice and provided details of where he might get this. Once again, I think 
Lloyds met the FCAs requirements here and appeared to be trying to support Mr M, where 
they could.
Lloyds wrote to Mr M again later in mid-June. Under their default notice, the arears he owed 
were now due for payment. They said his credit agreement would be ended if they didnt 
receive payment or hear from him. When Mr M contacted them, Lloyds agreed a further 30-
day hold until 22 July 2021. Their letter reminded Mr M that his normal monthly payments 
were still due and, if missed, would need to be caught up. They again confirmed theyd 
stopped charging interest.
I think Lloyds continued to support Mr M through his financial difficulties. But Mr Ms arrears 
were increasing without any realistic proposal to repay them. So, I dont think Lloyds had any 
other option but to default Mr Ms account with them. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issue guidance and principles for the reporting 
of arrears, arrangements and defaults at credit reference agencies. It says that as a general guide, a default may be recorded when you are three months in arrears, and normally by 
the time you are six months in arrears. From the information Ive seen, it appears Mr Ms 
account had been in arrears for more than six months. As this is a default trigger, I think 
Lloyds were obliged to issue a default notice and record this on Mr Ms credit file. 
While I accept there may have been some contradictions as regards the date of the sale and 
transfer of Mr Ms debt to a third party, I dont believe this had a bearing on the ultimate 
outcome. Mr M had long term arrears without a realistic proposal for their clearance. I 
believe the default was appropriate and the sale of the debt is part of Lloyds process in 
these circumstances. 
It isnt our role to ask a business to alter its procedures or processes or impose 
improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly 
within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But it 
is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in the 
manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual circumstances of 
Mr Ms experience with them.
I cant reasonably say that Lloyds treated Mr M unfairly. To the contrary, I think they tried to 
provide as much support as possible. But ultimately, Mr M was unable to address the arrears 
or provide an acceptable and achievable proposal. So, I shant be asking Lloyds to do 
anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman