DRN-1472299
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas). He is unhappy that it didnt 
explain the process for making a claim on his motor insurance policy. Because of this his 
claim has been recorded as a fault claim.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ive listened to Mr Ms first call with Ageas, and the adviser told Mr M the repairs 
would be carried out by one of their approved repairers. And Mr M agreed for this to 
happen. At no point in this conversation did Mr M ask for an estimate of the repairs. 
So, I dont think Ageas treated him unfairly by not contacting him before fixing his car.
In respect of liability, Mr M only asked what would happen if liability was disputed by 
the third party. Ageass adviser explained what the next steps would be, and that 
theyd most likely pursue the claim based on the circumstances Mr M had shared 
with them. During this call, I didnt hear Mr M say he didnt want to make a claim until 
liability had been established. With that in mind, if Mr Ms intentions were to wait until 
liability had been established before repairing the car, I think it is reasonable to 
suggest he would have said so at that point, as it was apparent Ageas would need to 
contact the other drivers insurer to establish liability.
Mr M has also said that he was prevented from giving his authority to have the 
repairs done. But again, I dont agree. During the call he had with Ageas, they clearly 
outlined the next steps. Ive also reviewed the terms of Mr Ms insurance policy and 
Im satisfied it clearly outlines when an excess fee will be required. Secondly, during 
the call Mr M had with Ageas, the agent made it clear Mr M would need to pay an 
excess fee of £445. Therefore, I am satisfied he was aware of the excess fee and 
when he would have to pay it. I appreciate that Ageas has agreed to waive the 
excess for Mr M, but I dont agree this is because Ageas has done anything wrong.
Mr M has said that Ageas led him to believe the third party had accepted liability. But 
I cant say I agree. At the start of the call the agent asked if the other driver had 
admitted liability, and Mr M said yes. But Mr M did indicate that the other driver was 
resistant at first. So, I cant agree that Ageas at any point during the call led Mr M to 
believe the other driver had admitted liability  the agent also indicated that the other 
driver would need to tell his insurer the same version events.For these reasons i won't be upholding Mr M's complaint.
So, I won't be asking Ageas to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman