DRN-2094121
The complaint
The Trust has complained about the service it received from National Westminster Bank Plc 
when it needed to update its authorised signatories mandate in 2019.
This complaint has been brought by Mr D in his capacity as a trustee of the Trust.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
The eligible complainant here isnt Mr D (or any of the other trustees) personally; its the 
Trust, on behalf of which Mr D brings the complaint as one of its trustees. As the Trust is a 
separate entity from Mr D and the other trustees, we cant compensate Mr D (or any of the 
other trustees) personally for things that happened to them whilst dealing with Trust 
business. A Trust cant experience distress, and the consideration of whether any 
inconvenience was caused would be in respect of any inconvenience to the Trust, rather 
than Mr D or the other trustees personally.
The Trust has said it is run by people, and it finds the implied suggestion that they and their 
time doesnt matter offensive. Im sorry the Trust has misunderstood the reasons why our 
investigator explained this. Its not that we dont know there are people involved, or that 
were saying they arent important, its a simple matter of our rules. Our rules only allow us to 
consider complaints from an eligible complainant, and the eligible complainant is the Trust; 
its not the individual trustees. Under our rules we simply have no power to consider the 
feelings of the individual trustees as theyre not the eligible complainants.
Given the passage of time, its not possible to say with any certainty what happened when 
the Trust was formed. NatWest has confirmed the account was opened the year before the 
Trust was formed, so it couldnt ever have been originally opened as a trust account. 
It may be the esteemed solicitor that the Trust has referred to in its correspondence 
completed all the relevant paperwork with - and provided a copy of the trust deed to - 
NatWest in 2001 when the Trust was formed to amend the account to a trust account. But 
equally it is possible he didnt do so. It may be he was satisfied to keep the account running 
as it was as it functioned in the way it needed to and did so, as the Trust has pointed out, for 
nearly 20 years. 
We have no way of knowing as neither side has retained the paperwork from the time. But 
this complaint doesnt turn on that. I say this because even if NatWest already held a copy of 
the trust deed from 2001 then its process is that a further copy should be provided when any 
changes are made, so a copy would still have been needed in 2019.
In its recent letter to our investigator the Trust has asked why copies werent requested 
when previous changes were made to the account. I can only refer the Trust back to the 
letter that was sent to Mr D by NatWest on 16 October 2019 which explained:
One of the documents that is required, is a certified copy of the Trust Deed for the Trust I 
note your comments that you have not previously been asked to provide this and so are 
unsure why we require this on this occasion. This is due to an error in how [the account] 
has been registered on our records.
The account has historically been recorded as a Clubs & Societies account, rather than a 
Trust. Due to the incorrect recording of the account, whenever changes were requested, 
they were actioned via the Clubs & Societies process and so no Trust Deed was 
requested. As the organisation is now known to be a Trust, we need to recode the 
account and ensure we have an up to date Trust Deed to confirm the requested changes, 
are in line with the deed.
In simple terms, a trust deed wouldnt have been requested previously as the account wasnt 
set up as a trust account. As NatWest now knows it should be a trust account then the trust 
deed is needed.
The Trust has said that things would have worked out differently if NatWest had said it had 
lost the trust deed in which event it could just have been sent.. I can see the Trust has 
gone to great lengths to try to prove NatWest lost it, rather than the alternative version which 
is that it had never been provided. Its unfortunate the Trust appears not to have historical 
records either including, it seems, the original version of its own trust deed. But I cant hold 
NatWest liable for all that, or for the time the Trust put in trying to prove NatWest wrong.
NatWest was clear that it needed the trust deed. It didnt matter what had gone before and 
whether anyone was at fault. The simple fact is that NatWest didnt have a copy of the trust 
deed and it needed one. NatWest said it normally needed to see the original, but also 
explained if that was unavailable then to let it know. All the Trust needed to do was provide 
the trust deed (or let NatWest know if only a certified copy was available) when asked, rather 
than spend time researching what may or may not have happened in 2001 and since.
NatWest has admitted it made some mistakes and has apologised for that. It has also paid 
£350 to the Trusts account and offered a further £50 to Mr Ds ex-secretary for her time 
travelling to Mr Ds office to retrieve a copy of the trust deed whilst he was incapacitated. 
The Trust commented that the £50 hadnt been paid, but thats because NatWest was 
waiting to hear from the Trust as to where the money should be paid.
If you would like me to make the £50 payment, please let me know what account you 
would like me to make this payment to.
I understand Mr D has provided his personal bank account details to our investigator and 
requested the money for his ex-secretary be paid into there. Ive asked our investigator to 
pass those details onto NatWest, if he hasnt already done so.
The Trust has said that more compensation should be paid as there were problems after the 
£350 was offered by NatWest. Ive considered this point carefully but Im not persuaded that 
more compensation is due. Had this complaint come to me without any offer having been 
made at all, I wouldnt have awarded more than £350 in total for everything that happened, 
so it would be inequitable for me to increase the compensation beyond that level. Having considered everything I think, in the circumstances, that the compensation already offered 
by NatWest is more than fair. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as I find the compensation paid by National Westminster Bank 
Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I make no other order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Trust to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman