DRN-3955528
The complaint
Mr M complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (PayPal) irresponsibly gave him a 
revolving credit account that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 20 October 2020, the account that Mr M is complaining about was opened by PayPal 
with an initial credit limit of £200. This credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Mr M complained to PayPal to say that the account shouldnt have been opened 
because it wasnt affordable and that PayPal ought to have made a better effort to 
understand his financial circumstances before opening the credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr M didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
PayPal will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ms complaint is that PayPal made credit available that was unaffordable. PayPal has 
explained that it relied in part on information that Mr M provided at the time of each 
application to assess affordability. In this case the application had a declared income of 
between £1,501 and £2,000 each month. PayPal told us they carried out a credit search in 
Mr Ms name to assess Mr Ms level of debt and to understand how he had been managing 
that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, PayPal decided to agree 
to the credit limit of £200. So, there was some assessment of affordability at the time of the 
lending decisions. And from the information that PayPal had or were given I dont think they 
were put on notice to make more searching enquiries into Mr Ms financial position. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the monthly payments for that credit 
would also have been relatively modest. And Mr M had declared a regular income that was 
not modest. And whilst the assessment of affordability was generic and not particular to Mr 
M, I consider it to have been a proportionate check considering Mr Ms declared income and 
the modesty of the credit limit. 
And the PayPal credit checks showed that Mr M was managing his other credit well at the 
time of the lending decisions. Now whilst Mr Ms credit report suggests that was not the 
case entirely, I need to point out that not all credit checking agencies have the same 
information and the regulator has specified no one particular approach to this. The checks 
performed need to be proportionate. I consider that the credit check conducted was 
proportionate for a credit limit of £200. Its also possible that any adverse information on Mr 
Ms credit history led PayPal to offer a credit limit of only £200. 
I have to look at the information that was available to PayPal at the time it made its lending 
decisions and not to use hindsight. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the other 
information that PayPal had acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decision, would have led them to think that the relatively modest credit they were offering 
needed more searching checks or that it was unreasonable at the time it was provided. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit PayPal provided to Mr M was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman