DRN-3964649
The complaint
Ms W complains that Arrow Global Limited (Arrow) and their agents, handled her account in 
an unfair way causing her a great deal of stress.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional decision 
on 17 January 2023 (below). In my provisional decision I explained why I was not intending 
to uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Ms W held a credit card account with M, unfortunately she was unable to keep up 
with her monthly payments and the account defaulted in 2011. M sold the account on 
to Arrow later in 2011. Arrow does not have an inhouse collections department and 
so it contracted this to various outside sources in the following years.
In 2011 when Arrow bought the account M provided them with an address for Ms W, 
Address A. In 2013 Ms W moved to Address B. She says she notified Arrows agent 
of this at the time.
Ms W paid a token monthly payment towards the debt, although no formal agreement 
was in place between her and Arrow.
Arrows agents wrote to Ms W at Address B over the years, wanting to engage with 
her and make a more formal arrangement. Arrow says Address B was noted as a 
possible address for Ms W and that in a letter sent to her in 2015, they explained this 
and asked her to confirm it. Arrow says she never responded to any of the agents 
letters, so it was never listed as a confirmed address.
The agent looking after the account in April 2021 returned it to Arrow as they had not 
been able to establish contact with Ms W. Arrow then placed the account with 
another of their agents. At the time of passing, it over they did a trace using a credit 
reference agency. The trace gave a link back to Address A, saying Ms W held a 
current account at that address which had been recently updated. So, Arrow gave 
Address A to their agent.
Correspondence was then sent to Address A, including notice of a county court 
judgement application issued on 9 June 2021. Ms W said this was passed to her by 
the occupants of Address A. Ms W contacted Arrows agent at this point and 
confirmed that she lived at Address B. She also updated this with the court. The 
judgement was granted by the court but was later set aside.
Ms W complained to Arrow as she felt she had been maintaining payments towards 
the account and so it was unfair for Arrow to begin legal action. She was also upset 
that they had decided to do this by writing to her previous address when they had 
been writing to her current one up until April 2021.
Arrow didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint and so she brought it to this service to 
consider. Our investigator initially upheld Ms Ws complaint as Arrow hadnt provided 
evidence to support what they were saying. But after Arrow provided further 
evidence, she didnt feel Ms Ws complaint should be upheld. Ms W disagreed and 
so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key 
issues. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean 
that Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
Having read and considered the whole file, I wont be upholding Ms Ws complaint. Ill 
explain why, but in doing so Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I 
dont comment on a specific point, its not because I havent considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Before I do, Id like to make a note that Ms W also brought further points she was 
unhappy with but as these happened after Arrow had issued their final response in 
September 2021, they have not agreed these points can be considered under this 
complaint reference. So, I have not made comment on them and if Ms W wants to 
pursue them, she is entitled to so under a separate complaint.
My role here is not to determine if Arrow acted fairly when issuing court proceedings 
against Ms W as that is their commercial decision but to decide if they used the best 
address known to them to do so.
Ms W has provided this service with lots of copies of letters she has written to M, and 
Arrows agents including ones regarding her address change back in 2013. And while 
I dont doubt that she wrote these letters, she doesnt have proof of postage and 
Arrow has told us they have no record of receiving them. So, I cant fairly say Arrow 
received the letters and were therefore able to confirm that Ms W lived at Address B.
Having said that, Arrow has said that they were writing to Ms W at Address B from 
around May 2015, so I can understand why she may have felt they were aware of her 
move. Arrow have explained that they held this a s a possible address for Ms W at 
that time. They have also explained that when an address is unconfirmed, and no 
contact is received from the account holder that they usually revert to completing 
traces or going back to the last confirmed address after six months.
In 2019 the agent dealing with the account returned it to Arrow and a new agent was 
put in place. They wrote to Ms W at Address B, as although Ms W was making her 
regular monthly token payments no formal agreement was in place. In April 2021 the 
agent returned the account to Arrow as it hadnt been able to successfully reach Ms 
W to put an agreement in place.
It was this event that triggered Arrow to conduct a trace using a credit reference 
agency. The trace showed that Ms W held a current account at Address A that had 
been updated during that same month. This along with the knowledge that Address A 
was Ms Ws address when she opened the credit card account led Arrow to believe 
this may be the best address to make contact with Ms W.Even if I accept that Address B was a confirmed address, as Ms W believes, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Arrow to revert to doing a trace as its agents hadnt 
been able to make contact with Ms W at that address for some time. And I cant say 
that was unreasonable Arrow to assume Address A was the better one to use to 
make contact with Ms W. I say this because when they did write to her at Address A, 
the correspondence was passed onto her, and she engaged with them.
I understand Ms Ws strength of feeling that Arrow and their agents acted in an 
underhand way issuing legal documents to an address that she feels they knew she 
didnt reside in, but I havent seen any evidence that supports this. Im also 
persuaded this isnt the case as I dont see how it would benefit Arrow in any way to 
do this. Thats because their ultimate aim is to be able to collect the money owed to 
them on the account. Issuing legal proceedings is a costly activity and something 
businesses like to avoid if possible and doing so to a known incorrect address would 
not be helpful to them in trying to recover the money owed to them.
I understand that Ms W will be disappointed by this but based on what Ive explained 
above I dont think Arrow has acted unfairly towards her when dealing with her 
account or when issuing legal documents to Address A in June 2021.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not currently intending to uphold this complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have anything in response they thought was relevant.
Arrow didnt respond.
Ms W responded in great detail explaining why she didnt agree with my findings  I have 
summarised her points in my own words here:
She feels that from the time of the account being opened with M in 2001 their actions 
and those of their agents are what led her into the difficulties she found herself in with 
making payments on the account.
She believes Arrow was aware of her correct address being Address B as they were 
writing to her as recently as October 2018, she included evidence of this with her 
response. As such she feels they were wilfully deceptive and negligent when allowing 
their agent to issue pre-action protocol documents to Address A  which was clearly 
her old address. 
As I said I dont doubt Ms W wrote the letters to Arrow, which she had provided 
copies of to this service, how could I then say they werent aware of her correct 
address. She also says she doesnt remember ever getting correspondence from 
them that she didnt reply to, and she keeps records of all correspondence both sent 
and received.
Arrow were servicing another of her debts at the time and so should have been able 
to connect the dots of the addresses.
Arrow were receiving her monthly token payments implying there was an agreement 
in place as, they acknowledged receipt of these payments in the 2018 letter Ms W 
forwarded with her response to the provisional decision.
Any trace completed should have shown her at Address B not Address A and so this is another reason to show they should have known Address B was her correct one.
Ms W also pointed out that in my provisional decision I had said The judgement was 
granted by the court but was later set aside.  She said this wasnt the case and that she had 
managed to get it set aside before it was issued. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive reconsidered and taken into account all of the 
information provided by both parties, including the most recent correspondence in reaching 
my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in this decision its not because I 
didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding 
what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an 
answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless its relevant to the crux 
of the complaint.
 
Id also like to apologise to Ms W for previously saying the judgement had been issued and 
then set aside, when in fact it had been stayed, not set aside.
Ill address Ms Ws points in turn, but before I do I have to tell her that they havent changed 
my decision, but Ill explain why.
I understand Ms W is very upset with Ms actions from when she first opened her account 
with them and beyond, but that isnt something I can consider as part of this complaint. As I 
previously explained my decision focusses solely on if when issuing court proceedings 
against Ms W, Arrow acted fairly using Address A.
There is no dispute at all that Arrow was aware of Address B and had in fact been writing to 
Ms W at that address for a number of years. And as I said Ms W has provided copies of 
letters she wrote to Arrow, their agents and M over the years. And while I dont dispute those 
letters were written, Ms M hasnt presented any evidence to show these were sent, although 
she maintains they were sent recorded delivery. Arrow says they have never received the 
letters and Ive seen evidence of the correspondence logs from their systems which supports 
what theyve said.
And while I accept that Arrow may have been servicing other debts for Ms W, Arrow have 
maintained that Address B was never a confirmed address because they hadnt received 
replies from Ms W when writing to her there. This is regardless of the fact that she was 
maintaining monthly payments on her other account and indeed making the token monthly 
payments to this account.  
As I previously explained to Ms W because Arrow had never confirmed with her that she was 
residing at Address B, I still believe it was reasonable for them to use a credit reference 
agency to perform an address trace. Ms W says this should clearly show her at Address B 
rather than Address A, but that wasnt the case. The trace showed Ms W held a current 
account at Address A that had been updated the same month as the trace, indicating it was 
a live account. I cant fairly hold Arrow liable if this information is incorrect, as they are 
entitled to rely on the information provided to them from the trace. And as the information 
matched with the address the account was originally registered at, I cant say it was 
unreasonable for them to believe the trace was providing an accurate, current address for 
Ms W.So, it follows I dont think it was unreasonable for Arrow to use Address A when issuing the 
pre-action protocol letters, in the hope Ms W would receive them correctly and could act on 
them. This is further supported by the fact that Ms W did respond to those letters and 
managed to get the proceedings stayed.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms W was hoping for but hope my explanations have 
gone some way to reassure her that Arrow havent acted unfairly here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman