DRN-3855807
The complaint
Mr P complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) gave him 
loans he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr P took eight loans from Mr Lender between May 2019 and March 2021. A summary of his
borrowing can be found in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentslargest 
monthly 
repayment
1 £200.00 21/05/2019 06/06/2019 3 £121.06
2 £200.00 03/07/2019 12/07/2019 3 £98.66
3 £200.00 17/07/2019 22/07/2019 3 £124.26
4 £500.00 09/08/2019 20/08/2019 12 £145.16
5 £500.00 29/08/2019 12/09/2019 12 £103.46
6 £500.00 13/09/2019 18/09/2019 12 £133.91
gap in lending
7 £500.00 05/08/2020 24/03/2021 9 £138.01
8 £800.00 31/03/2021 29/10/2021 12 £168.96
Mr Lender considered Mr Ps complaint and issued its final response letter in March 2022.
Mr Lender said that it ought to have carried out further checks before it granted loans 4  6
and in order to put things right it made the following offer.
Refund the interest, fees and charges applied to loans 4  6, after 8% simple interest
the total refund due to Mr P  at the time of the letter was £78.43.
Mr Lender would remove each loan granted to Mr P from his credit file.
Mr P didnt accept the offer and instead referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. The adjudicator didnt consider loans 4  6
because Mr Lender had already accepted these loans shouldnt have been granted. It also 
seems the adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint about loans 1  3.
However, the adjudicator thought for loans 7 and 8 that Mr Lender ought to have carried out
further checks before granting these loans, which may have included reviewing Mr Ps bank 
account statements.
The adjudicator reviewed the bank statements provided by Mr P, but he didnt think had 
Mr Lender reviewed these that it wouldve thought the loan repayments were unaffordable. 
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint about these two loans either.
Mr Lender acknowledged the adjudicators assessment and explained it had nothing further
to add.
Mr P didnt agree with the outcome that was reached by the adjudicator about loans 7 and 8.
In summary he said:
During the time loans 7 and 8 were granted Mr P says that he was using the
maximum amount of his available overdraft and occasionally exceeding it.
Mr P returned within a week of settling loan 7 for loan 8.
Mr P wasnt in a position to take on any further borrowing.
As no agreement has been reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. I proceeded 
to issue a provisional decision to explain why I thought the offer Mr Lender had made in the 
final response letter was fair and reasonable. I also explained why I thought the gap in 
lending between loans 6 and 7 was sufficient to start a new lending chain. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font to differentiate it from the rest of 
this decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ps
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.
Loans 1  3
Neither Mr P nor Mr Lender have disagreed with the outcome that has been reached in this
case  that being it was reasonable for Mr Lender to approve these loans. I therefore, think
there is no longer any disagreement about these loans and therefore I wont be making a
finding about them in this decision. But Ive kept these loans in mind when thinking about the
overall lending relationship.
In addition, in the final response letter, Mr Lender also agreed to remove these loans
Mr Ps credit file  that is more than fair and reasonable.
Loans 4  6
Mr Lender has already conceded these loans ought to not have been advanced. As this is
the case, then there is no need for me to consider these loans. I would say, Mr Lenders
offer to settle these loans is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I say no more
about them.
Loan 7
This loan was approved almost 12 months after loan 6 was repaid. In my view, this break in
lending is sufficient for Mr Lender to have, in effect treated Mr P as a new customer. I say
this because Mr P had shown that he didnt have a need for such credit for around a year.
So, while, this was loan 7, in the overall lending relationship this could be treated as a first
loan in a new chain. This does impact the level and type of check Id consider to be
proportionate at this moment in time.
Before the loan was approved, Mr Lender took details of Mr Ps income and expenditure.
Mr Lender recorded Mr Ps income as being £3,500 per month with monthly outgoings of
£1,461. Mr Lender was therefore aware that he had around £2,039 per month to make the
largest monthly repayment of £138.01.
Before this loan was approved Mr Lender also carried out a credit search and it has provided
a summary of the results.
It is worth saying here that although Mr Lender carried out a credit search with a particular
credit reference agency, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a
specific standard. It is therefore entirely possible that the information Mr Lender received
may not entirely reflect the information Mr P may be able to view on the credit report. There
could be for a number of reasons for this, such as Mr Lender only asking for certain pieces
of information or other credit companies not updating the credit file with up-to-date
information.
But what Mr Lender couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the
information it received  if necessary.
Ive considered the summary of the results that it has provided. Having reviewed these
results, there isnt anything that I can see that wouldve indicated that Mr P was having
financial difficulties, for example it knew there wasnt any insolvency markers such as
County Court Judgements.
I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to have reviewed Mr Ps bank
statements at this point in time. After all, the loan was for a fairly modest sum, and it was the
first loan in a new chain of lending. In my view, it wouldve been disproportionate for
Mr Lender to have reviewed the bank statements.Given it was early on in the lending relationship in this second chain of borrowing, I think it
was reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on the information Mr P provided along with the
credit check results to show he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he
was committed to making.
There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr P was having financial difficulties or that
the loan repayments would be unsustainable for him.
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ps complaint about loan 7.
However, Mr Lender has agreed to remove this loan from Mr Ps credit file, which given the
circumstances at the time of this loan being approved, I think is a fair and reasonable offer.
Loan 8
Shortly, after loan 7 was repaid Mr P returned for loan 8. This was his largest capital loan to
be repaid over a year. A consequence of this, is that this loan had the largest monthly
repayment that Mr P had to pay to Mr Lender - £168.96. Loan 8 was the second loan in this
chain of lending.
Mr Lender carried out the same sort of checks for this loan as it had done so for loan 7. Mr P
once again declared a monthly income of £3,500. He also declared monthly outgoings of
£1,668. This left disposable monthly income of £1,832 to cover the largest monthly
repayment of £168.92. This loan looked affordable.
A credit check was also carried out and again, the results have been provided. The summary
shows that Mr Ps situation appeared to be similar to that of loan 7, apart from Mr Lender
knew about one AAI loan  in effect this was an outstanding payday loan. Mr Lender was
therefore, on notice that Mr P had taken such a loan  or at the least a loan had been
advanced that was being recorded on his credit file.
However, as part of the affordability assessment, Mr P declared he had payments towards
Loans (inc short term) and an amount of £500 has been recorded. I dont think, given this
was the second loan in this chain that it was unreasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on
the information he had provided about his other lending. Even taking account of the
outstanding payday loan, the loan still looked affordable for Mr P.
I also dont think, at this point, Mr Lender needed to verify the information provided to it by
Mr P. This means, like loan 7, it wouldve been disproportionate to have requested or viewed
Mr Ps bank statements. Mr Lender could reasonably rely on the information provided to it
from Mr P which showed this loan was affordable.
Im therefore intending to conclude Mr Lender made a reasonable decision to provide this
loan. As with other Mr Ps other loans, Mr Lender has offered to remove this loan from
Mr Ps credit file which I consider to be fair and reasonable.
Response to the provisional decision 
Both Mr P and Mr Lender were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon 
as possible, but in any event no later than 6 January 2023. 
Mr P and Mr Lender both emailed to confirm receipt of the provisional decision and neither 
party had anything further for consideration. 
Although, the deadline for responses hasnt yet passed, given both parties have responded 
to the provisional decision and have said they have nothing further to add. I see no reason to 
wait until January 2023 in order to issue the final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr P and Mr Lender received the provisional decision and didnt have anything further 
to provide. As this is the case, I see no reason to depart from the findings that I reached in 
the provisional decision. 
I still do not uphold Mr Ps complaint because the offer Mr Lender made in the final response 
letter is fair and reasonable resolution, in the circumstances which I explained in the 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Mr Lender has already 
made an offer to settle the complaint as outlined in the final response letter and I think this 
offer is fair in all of the circumstances of this complaint. 
PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) should pay this award to Mr P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman