DRN-3751254
The complaint
Ms B complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly gave her a 
running account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In 2012, Ms B applied for a credit account with Studio Retail. She was given an initial 
credit limit but due to the passage of time that data is no longer available. But we do know 
that the credit limit was increased five times to £1400 in September 2017.   
On 20 July 2020, Ms B complained to Studio Retail to say that the account shouldnt have 
been opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Studio Retail ought to have 
made a better effort to understand her financial circumstances before increasing her 
credit limits.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. Studio Retail didnt 
provide their formal response to that assessment. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 28 September 2022, a 
section of which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional 
decision I set out the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was 
my intention not to uphold Ms Bs complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases of credit 
and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the specifics into question, so, I 
dont intend to cover them off here. 
Ms Bs complaint is that Studio Retail made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Ms B has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times in question. Studio Retail has explained that it carried 
out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to 
offer. Its possible that Studio Retail failed to make adequate checks before providing Ms B 
with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Studio 
Retail to think the initial credit limit or the credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the credit limits were very modest initially and were never immodest. 
And the minimum monthly payments for that credit were also relatively modest. There 
were four admin charges in the life of the credit, that I can see, and they all appear to have 
been for modest amounts and were put right promptly. Overall, during the period of time 
that the account had credit limit increases applied, the account was well managed for the 
most part. And, throughout the life of the credit and for a year after the last credit limit 
increase was applied, Ms B was not using anything close to the full credit limit available to 
her. 
It is also worth noting that Ms Bs credit file was very clean at the time of the lending 
decisions. When I say this, I mean that Ms Bs management of her existing credit showed no 
recent history of CCJs, defaults or any late payments. So, it seemed from the credit file that 
at the point that the lending decisions were made, Ms B was affording her existing credit 
elsewhere. And so, Studio Retail were not put on notice of any reason not to agree the 
lending from that. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Studio Retail at the time they made 
their lending decisions and not to use hindsight. I note that it was some time after the last 
credit limit increase was applied to the account that Ms B exhibited signs if financial difficulty 
on her account. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Ms B to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Studio Retail to think that the credit it 
provided Ms B was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Ms B was 
managing her account or what Studio Retail could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Ms B will be disappointed with my decision, but I want Ms B to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. But having considered all the 
submissions in this case, particularly those at the time of the lending decisions, I have not 
found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 12 October 2022. At the time of writing, neither Studio Retail nor 
Ms B have acknowledged receiving the decision, made any further submission or made a 
request for a time extension to do so. I think that both parties have had sufficient time to 
make substantive further submissions if they had wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons 
(above) for not upholding Ms Bs complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman