DRN-3949961
The complaint
Ms W complains about the way Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S 
Bank handled her claim for a refund in respect of accommodation she purchased using her 
M & S Bank credit card.
What happened
In February 2020 Ms W booked ten rooms for her and a party of 13 with a hotel Ill call C  to 
be used in June 2020. She paid £3,537 upfront for the booking and used her M & S Bank 
credit card to pay all but £100 of it  which was paid via another of her accounts.
On 18 March 2020, C contacted Ms W and explained that in light of the developing situation 
with Covid-19, Until 30th April 2020 if you have a booking with us in 2020 (which has a non 
refundable cancellation policy) we are permitting you to alter the dates, free of charge to a 
similar priced stay either later in the year or the same time next year. Should there be an 
increase in tariff you will only pay the difference, we will work with you.
Following this Ms W agreed with C to postpone the date of the booking until 5-11 June 2021.
In May 2021 Ms W contacted C again explaining that because of the requirement to 
quarantine in Guernsey for seven days, the trip would not be viable. She asked C if it would 
consider postponing the date of her stay again. C confirmed it could postpone the stay 
another 12 months and asked Ms W for her proposed dates. 
Ms W replied and asked for 4-10 June. C asked if she meant 2022. Ms W confirmed she did. 
C responded with just a smiley face and no words.
Ms W emailed C in December 2021 asking if she could add another individual to the 
booking. In response to Ms W, C said it would make sense to work out which dates and 
what is allowed before we commit to anything 
C emailed Ms W in January 2022 asking her to confirm dates and room requirements  
which she promptly did, explaining again she wanted to book 4-10 June 2022. 
C told Ms W it was reviewing its bookings during the first week of March and would get back 
to her after this. 
In March 2022 C contacted Ms W and said it wouldnt be able to accommodate her on the 
dates she required. It said that although Ms W booked a non-refundable non changeable 
rate it offered to refund what had been paid less a 5% administration/credit card fee.
After some initial back and forth between the two parties, Ms W eventually told C that 
although she considered it to be liable for the full sum she paid, she was prepared to accept 
its offer of £3,537 less 5%.
On 8 April 2022 C said it was prepared to pay a refund of £3,360 in full and final settlement 
of her claim and would require Ms Ws signed acceptance.
Ms W said she wasnt prepared to accept the offer in full and final settlement of her claim as 
she didnt want to jeopardize a future claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 
against M & S Bank for the remaining 5%. 
Ms W asked M & S Bank to step in and help her get a refund in April 2022. M & S Bank told 
Ms W it had contacted C and it had offered to pay her £1,650. M & S Bank said Ms W could 
only claim for her part of the trip, and not for the rest of her party. It offered (in what it said 
was a gesture of goodwill) to pay Ms W an additional £145. M & S Bank said this was the 
difference between Cs offer of £127 per person and Ms Ws individual portion of the cost of 
the accommodation. 
M & S Bank said it had considered its liability to Ms W under Section 75 Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 but didnt think there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation on the 
evidence it had seen. So, it didnt think it was liable to Ms W for the full cost of the 
accommodation.  
Dissatisfied, Ms W referred her complaint to this service. 
An investigator thought Ms Ws complaint should be upheld. She said Cs cancellation of the 
accommodation was a breach of contract and because Ms W was the lead booker she was 
able to claim for the whole cost of the booking. She asked M & S Bank to pay Ms W £3,537 
plus interest. 
M & S Bank disagreed with the investigator. It said the other travellers had a claim against C 
for breach of contract but did not have a like claim against M & S Bank as they were not 
debtors under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. M & S Bank also questioned whether 
any liability on its part should be reduced by the £1,650 C had offered to pay.
The complaint was therefore referred to an ombudsman for further review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am looking here at the actions of M & S Bank and whether it has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the way it handled Ms Ws request for help in getting her money back. 
Section 75 provides that subject to certain criteria the borrower under a credit agreement 
has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. So, given Ms Ws claim here, for me 
to find that M & S Bank should have refunded the cost of the accommodation to her, Id need 
to find that there has been a breach of contract.
Amongst the criteria for a claim under Section 75 are that the claim must relate to a single 
item to which the supplier has attached a cash price between £100 and £30,000 and the 
claim must relate to a transaction that was financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
agreement, where Ms W was the debtor. 
Looking at these criteria in turn, if the single item here was the booking as a whole, the cash 
price attached was £3,537. If each individual room was a single item, communications 
between Ms W and C show the cash price attached to the rooms was between £384 and 
£414 per room. So, the claim was within the financial limits either way. Turning to whether there was a DCS agreement, its clear Ms W was the debtor in this case, 
her being the cardholder. And she had a contract with C (and paid C) for the booking in 
respect of all ten rooms. I say this on the basis that C only ever appears to have dealt with 
Ms W without ever requiring the names of the travelling party members  so I dont see how 
any of the other travelling members could be said to have been contracting with C for the 
rooms instead of Ms W rather than in addition to her. The closest thing I have been able to 
locate to a set of terms and conditions for C is an archived version of its reservation policy 
and nothing Ive seen within these makes me think Ms W wasnt contracting with C for all ten 
rooms either.
On that basis it appears Ms Ws claim related to a transaction that was financed by a DCS 
agreement. 
Ive therefore considered whether there was likely a breach of contract by C.
Cs reservation policy sets out that rooms are non-refundable so there are no cancellation or 
changes possible 
C said in communications with Ms W that she and her party did not show up to the booking 
in June 2020 so, in accordance with the terms of the contract, it said it did not have to 
provide a refund of any kind. C said it offered to change the date of Ms Ws stay, and later 
offer a refund as a gesture of goodwill only. 
From what Ive seen it appears that C contacted Ms W in March 2020 offering her the 
opportunity to change the date of her stay without the loss of what shed paid. Following this 
Ms W proposed a new date and C confirmed it had amended the booking accordingly. So, it 
seems likely the parties had mutually agreed to vary the term of the contract that changes to 
bookings were not possible and to agree new terms whereby the accommodation would be 
provided on a different date. In other words, the contract between Ms W and C for the 
provision of the accommodation remained in force.
Whether something similar could be said for the second postponement is the key question 
for me to answer here. If the parties had agreed something new again in respect of the same 
booking, it seems logical that a failure to provide the accommodation as per that agreement 
might have been a breach of contract by C.  
Ive carefully analysed the course of events therefore to determine this. 
In May 2021 Ms W and C had an exchange of emails whereby Ms W asked C to postpone 
the date of the stay again in 2021, C asked Ms W for her new dates, and Ms W gave them to 
C. Ms W was then asked if she meant 2022 for the new dates. The closest thing that C 
seems to have provided in acknowledgment of these dates was a typed smiley face. 
Ive thought carefully about this but I dont find this was clear enough to constitute an 
acceptance by C that Ms Ws new dates could be accommodated. The smiley face could just 
have equally been an acknowledgement that Ms W had now provided information about 
which year she was requesting to book in as it was an acceptance that C could 
accommodate those dates. 
C later appears to have told Ms W in December 2021 that it couldnt commit to anything yet 
and then in January 2022 it said it would review the booking and get back to her. 
When C did get back to Ms W, it explained it couldnt accommodate her on the dates she 
required  although no explanation was ever provided to Ms W as to why this was the case.On my analysis of these facts, it seems most likely to me that Ms W and C had not agreed 
precise new dates for the accommodation to be provided in 2022. 
So where did this leave Ms W?
Having not agreed precise new dates for the accommodation to be provided I dont think C 
breached the contract by telling Ms W it couldnt accommodate her proposed dates.  
However, what C did appear to have agreed with Ms W was that she could postpone her trip 
by 12 months. So again seemingly an agreement was reached to allow changes to the 
booking. When C emailed Ms W to explain it couldnt accommodate her in June 2022, it also 
offered to provide a refund of 95% of the cost of the accommodation. I dont find it was 
unreasonable to imply from this that C wasnt prepared to accommodate Ms W at all. If it 
was, it seems it would have offered Ms W the opportunity to book alternative dates in 2022 
rather than telling her, unprompted, that she could have most of her money back.
So, having agreed with Ms W that she could postpone her stay until 2022 and then 
seemingly refusing to do this, it appears C was in breach of contract. It had agreed to allow 
another change to the contract in May 2021 (thereby prolonging the original contract further 
and varying its terms again) then it effectively went back on that by not appearing to allow 
Ms W to make said change. 
With all of the above in mind, I find M & S Bank treated Ms W unfairly by declining to meet 
her claim. So, I find it would be fair and reasonable for M & S Bank to treat Ms W as if it had 
met her claim and pay her £3,537 plus interest from when it declined to meet it. 
Ive thought about what M & S Bank said in response to the investigators assessment about 
the other parties having claims but not being the debtor in this case. The travelling parties 
may have had their own contracts with C, (although thats not clear from the available terms 
of business). But that doesnt take away from the fact Ms W appears most likely to have had 
her own contract with C for the booking of all ten rooms, for the reasons I explained earlier in 
this decision. 
So, Ms Ws loss when C breached the contract was not limited to just her own portion of the 
booking. Rather, as the booking party with a contract for all ten rooms, I think her loss was 
more likely the cost of the whole booking. I dont think the fact the travelling party reimbursed 
Ms W changes that either. That was a separate arrangement between those parties and Im 
sure they will expect to be reimbursed by Ms W in any event. 
M & S Bank questioned whether its liability should be reduced by Cs offer. I dont think that 
would be fair in this case. When M & S Bank told Ms W about Cs offer it said it was in full 
and final settlement of Ms Ws claim if she accepted it  which clearly is not what Ms W 
wants. The acceptance form M & S bank provided to Ms W for the offer also said it would 
expire on 29 September 2022. So, it doesnt appear that its even available now in any 
event. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
To put things right Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank must pay 
Ms W £3,537 plus interest on that sum of 8% simple per annum from 1 September 2022 until 
the date of settlement*.
* If Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms W how much its taken off. It should also give Ms W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman