DRN-3354286
The complaint
Mr M complains that Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd (L&G) failed to 
execute an order to purchase units within his ISA in line with his request. 
What happened
Mr M holds an ISA with L&G. 
In March 2021, he filled out a written application to purchase units in a number of funds 
within his ISA and posted it off to L&G with a cheque. Hed dated the cheque and the 
application form 6 April 2021, intending that this would be the day his units were 
purchased. 
L&G keyed Mr Ms purchase order on 13 April 2021. Mr M noted the value of the units L&G 
purchased for him were less favourable than they had been on 6 April 2021. Mr M 
complained about this to L&G. 
L&G responded to Mr Ms complaint and defended its actions. It said it hadnt received Mr 
Ms instruction until 13 April 2021 and itd executed it on the same day.  
Mr M wasnt happy with L&Gs response. He felt that if L&G had received the instruction too 
late for it to be executed on 6 April 2021, it ought to have called him to discuss his request 
prior to keying the transaction. As he didnt accept what L&G had said, Mr M referred the 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. They explained that L&G couldnt be held 
responsible for the apparent postal delay which caused Mr Ms cheque and application to 
arrive late. And that when the request was received, L&G had executed it in line with its 
terms and conditions. Because of this, our investigator didnt feel L&G had treated Mr M 
unfairly. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matters been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I shant be upholding it. Ill explain why. 
When its handling requests to execute a specific transaction, Id expect L&G to pay due 
regard to any specific instructions Mr M gave it. Id also expect it to carry out Mr Ms 
instructions in line with its regulatory obligations and its terms and conditions, and to treat 
him fairly. I was persuaded L&G had failed to do so, Id consider whether it would be fair for 
Mr M to be compensated. 
Ive seen a copy of the application Mr M sent to purchase new units. Having read this form, 
Mr M makes it very clear how much hes looking to invest, and which funds hed like to 
purchase units in. He also makes it clear that hes looking to utilise his ISA allowance for the 
2021/2022 tax year. But nowhere does he specify hed like to invest on a specific date, nor 
that hed like to be consulted if the transaction cant be processed on a specific date. 
Mr M has confirmed that he did not include a covering letter nor give any other instruction to 
L&G beyond what he wrote on his application. He assumed that by dating the application 
and his cheque for 6 April 2021, that this is when L&G would process his request. 
But L&Gs application doesnt give the reader any suggestion that dating it will affect when 
any instructions are processed. Reading the application, I think a reasonable assumption is 
that, as is typical with many forms, the date entered at the bottom should typically reflect the 
date the document was signed, given that it appears adjacent to a signature box. And this 
may well be what L&G believed when it was received, as thered be no way of it knowing 
precisely when Mr M had posted the document.   
With the benefit of the explanation hes included with his complaint, I can appreciate what Mr 
M was trying to achieve here. But from L&Gs perspective I dont think it couldve had any 
reasonable basis for concluding that he specifically wanted to invest on 6 April 2021, and 
that hed like to be contacted if that wasnt going to be possible. In my view, Mr M never 
made this clear to L&G. Taken as it is, Im satisfied Mr Ms instruction could reasonably be 
interpreted as a request to purchase units within his ISA in the coming financial year, as and 
when the request was received. Which is precisely how L&G interpreted it. 
Regrettably, Mr Ms application wasnt received by L&G until 13 April 2021. The screenshots 
its provided confirm as much. And L&G processed Mr Ms instruction the same day. 
Ive studied L&Gs terms and conditions. They say that Where [L&G] receive a Lump Sum 
Payment, the Paymentwill be invested in the Funds selected on your Application 
Form at the price calculated at the Funds next Valuation Point. Im therefore satisfied 
L&Gs executed Mr Ms instruction in line with its terms and in accordance with the limited 
instructions Mr M included on his application form. Im not persuaded theres any evidence 
L&G has treated Mr M unfairly when processing his request. 
I note Mr M was able to invest in a similar way, achieving the desired result, with a different 
provider. If this is true, I can only assume his other provider received his paperwork in time 
for it to be processed on that day. I cannot fairly or reasonably blame L&G for the date it 
received Mr Ms letter. In the circumstances, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for L&G 
to process Mr Ms instruction when it did so.  
Having considered the matter in full, Im satisfied that L&G has treated Mr M fairly. So I do 
not uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman