DRN-1930523
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF) breached data protection rules by sharing their personal data with a 
third party. Mrs H says that she received a cheque for £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience the issues caused but Mr H hasnt received anything.
Mrs H says that £50 compensation isnt enough. She says she and Mr H have been greatly 
affected by the issues which have been going on for an extended period.
What happened
Mrs H says that BPF provided her personal details and those of Mr H to a third party and in 
doing so breached data protection rules. She says the breach was confirmed by the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Mrs H was sent a cheque for £50 because of this 
but Mr H wasnt provided with any compensation. Mrs H says the compensation isnt 
enough.
BPF confirmed that it was provided with a copy of a court judgement that was in Spanish, of 
which the third party was party to, and it requested an English version. It provided the third 
party with the customers account number, address and the Spanish copy. It said that the 
third party would already have all this information but also that it could have provided less 
information for the customer to be identified. Because of this it paid £50 compensation for 
any distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She noted that it wasnt for this service to 
decide whether BPF had breached data protection rules, but we could consider the impact 
any issues had on Mrs H and Mr H. She didnt find the issue had caused any financial loss to 
Mrs H or Mr H and thought the £50 compensation was reasonable.
Mrs H didnt accept our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint is that BPF unnecessarily shared their personal data 
with a third party. As our investigator has explained its not the role of this service to 
decide if a business has breached data protection laws. That is for the ICO to decide. 
Mrs H has raised her concerns with the ICO and received a response and BPF 
referred to a complaint from the ICO in its final response letter.
While it isnt our role to decide if a data breach has occurred we can consider the 
impact a breach has had on a customer and what actions the business has taken to 
address this. In this case BPF says that the data it shared was excessive and that 
less details could have been provided to gain the information it needed. However, it 
also said that the information would have already been available to the third party. 
I have nothing to suggest the information which was provided led to any financial loss 
to Mr or Mrs H. Therefore, I have just considered what, if anything should be done to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
I understand the upset that Mrs H has explained, and I appreciate that time was 
spent raising the concerns with the ICO and BPF. Mrs H has said she was paid £50 
compensation, but Mr H didnt receive anything. However, this complaint was raised 
by Mrs H about the information BPF shared which related to both her and Mr H. The 
response from the ICO relates to both the data relating to Mrs H and Mr H. 
Therefore, on balance it appears the complaint has been raised and dealt with as a 
whole, that is the compensation is for the shared data which related to both parties.
I have considered whether I think £50 is enough compensation in this case when 
considering the impact on Mrs H and Mr H and I think it is. I say this because the 
data shared was most likely already available to the party it was shared with. It 
doesnt appear that the issue caused any financial loss and while I appreciate it was 
upsetting I find that the compensation in this case is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman