DRN-2809984
The complaint
Mr D complains that Quilter Cheviot Limited (QC) misled him about the currency it would 
use to purchase his investments, which he says exposed his portfolio to exchange rate risk. 
He says this made it unsuitable for him. Mr D also complains that QC didnt actively manage 
his portfolio. 
What happened
Mr D met with a representative of QC in 2012. The meeting was held in the office of Mr Ds 
Independent Financial Adviser (the IFA). Mr D wanted to move his Self Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) portfolio away from the discretionary management of another business, 
who Ill refer to as B. 
In late August 2012 Mr D signed an application form entering into a discretionary 
management agreement with QC. Mr Ds risk tolerance was assessed by his IFA. Mr Ds 
experience was noted in the application. This showed that hed been in a discretionary 
portfolio since 2004 and had held investments for 20 years. 
Mr Ds objective was to grow his capital over a three to five year time horizon. And he 
expected to retire in the following five to ten years. Mr Ds risk tolerance was recorded as low 
to medium, which meant he accepted equity exposure in the range of 25% to 50% of the 
value of his portfolio. The starting value of the portfolio was just over £846,000.
The QC Investment Manager (the IM) wrote to Mr D on 25 October 2012 giving an update 
on the progress of the transfer. A portfolio document was produced setting out details of the 
investments to be held in line with Mr Ds objectives and risk profile. The IM recommended a 
QC defensive model portfolio (DMP). This included 21% in UK equities, 13% in overseas 
equities and 16.5% in alternative investments which included overseas investments.
In February 2016 Mr D began to raise concerns about market volatility. Following a meeting 
with his IFA and the IM, Mr D agreed to reduce the portfolios exposure to equities from 46% 
to around 38%. And in July 2016 Mr Ds IFA asked QC to fully liquidate the equities portion 
of the portfolio, retaining the fixed interest and alternative investments. In September 2016 
Mr D agreed with the IM to gradually reintroduce exposure to equities, initially to 20%, with 
further increases to follow.
On 19 October 2018 the IFA let QC know that Mr D intended to liquidate all assets held 
within his (Mr Ds) portfolio. And the instruction to liquidate was received by QC on 
7 February 2019. Sell instructions were placed for all Mr Ds assets, except one fund which 
he had carried over from B. This was one of Bs funds which had been in a long liquidation 
process and it could not be sold.
On 13 February 2019 QC provided Mr D with an update advising him that around £927,000 
had settled. Mr Ds IFA expressed concerns that this figure was around £10,000 lower than 
the values quoted when the sale was instructed. QC responded with a breakdown of the 
factors accounting for the difference in values which included a decrease due to exchange 
rate factors.
Mr D complained saying he was unhappy that he wasnt told about some of his investments 
being traded in foreign currencies. Mr D said hed been misled by QC about this. He argued 
the non-sterling denominated investments within the portfolio would not have been suitable 
for his low to medium risk profile. Mr D also considered the IM hadnt actively managed his 
portfolio. And he expressed concerns about the value he received for Bs fund which had 
reduced from what had been shown in his QC statements.
QC rejected Mr Ds complaint. It said the IM had actively managed Mr Ds portfolio but the 
performance had been affected by a number of decisions made by him (Mr D) including the 
liquidating of the equities proportion of his portfolio. QC said the foreign holdings formed part 
of its DMP and Mr D agreed to this. In terms of Bs fund, QC said any pricing issues were 
outside of its control.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. He thought given Mr Ds 
investment experience he would have understood there was a possibility that the foreign 
assets would be bought using foreign currency. He didnt think QC misled him about this. 
Our investigator was also satisfied there was sufficient evidence to show that QC was 
actively managing Mr Ds portfolio. In terms of the value of Bs fund, he was satisfied QC 
hadnt done anything wrong given it had no control over the funds pricing.
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view. He asked for an ombudsmans decision on the 
matter. In brief, he said:
His experience didnt mean he had experience in foreign currency investments;
He did agree to the IMs choices regarding foreign investment but he didnt know that 
this would be bought using currency other than sterling. QC should have told him this 
verbally;
QC should have explained the value of the portfolio would be affected by the 
exchange rate of the currency used. IM had a duty of care to bring this to Mr Ds 
attention;
Theres no evidence of the portfolio being actively managed from September 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made significant submissions and Ive considered them in their entirety. However, I 
will not necessarily address every point hes made but instead, I will concentrate on the 
material issues which affect the outcome of his complaint.
Its not disputed that QC didnt advise Mr D to invest with it. QC also wasnt responsible for 
Mr Ds categorisation of his attitude to risk  this was carried out by Mr Ds IFA who 
assessed him. This was the basis of the low to medium risk that the IM used when deciding 
on the appropriate portfolio for Mr D. So, Mr Ds IFA had obligations in that respect, as well 
as informing Mr D how his portfolio would operate.
QCs role was to manage the portfolio within the agreed parameters  in this case the 
agreed risk parameters (low to medium), and objective of achieving growth. QC didnt have 
to take into account Mr Ds personal situation. It only had to operate and manage his 
portfolio as had been agreed. But QC did have its own responsibilities to clearly set out how 
the portfolio would work and administer the portfolio as agreed. So, its statements and other 
communications needed to be clear, fair and not misleading. Ill now address Mr Ds specific 
complaint points.Although it is not straightforward to assess the risk of an investment where it involves foreign 
equities, the evidence does suggest that Mr Ds portfolio was managed within the risk 
parameters agreed with QC. Foreign investments were to make up part of this which Mr D 
and his IFA were clearly aware of from the outset. QC set out, in my view clearly, how the 
portfolio was to be invested, including the nature of the foreign investments. This is further 
demonstrated in the risk appendix which came with Mr Ds application where it stated:
currency movements can impact positively on investments, but they can 
also have a serious negative effect. Fluctuations in exchange rates may 
impact the value of, and the income derived from, investments. Profits can 
also be eroded by a fall in the value of a particular currency.
However, Mr D says his point is that he wasnt aware, or wasnt specifically verbally told by 
QC, about the use of foreign currency to purchase these foreign investments. He says if hed 
known he would not have agreed to this because of the risks involved.
Despite what Mr D says, I can see that in the majority of the statements sent to him during 
his period with QC, there was one or more reference to funds being traded in another 
currency (other than sterling). For example, in the statement dated 31 December 2013 to 
31 March 2014 there was a market price shown as $71.73 for a fund under the headings 
North America - USA - Unit Trust. And in the following columns such as market value, 
book customer and estimated income the value of the fund was then translated into 
sterling. At the end of the statements a note said the following (bold is my emphasis): 
Portfolio values are based on the 'Quarter-Up' or Bid market price at the 
close of business on the valuation date as quoted on the relevant 
exchange, translated into the valuation currency where necessary. 
Quilter Cheviot Limited takes no responsibility for the prices of unquoted 
or unmarketable securities.
So, I think contemporaneous notes such as the application form, portfolio statements and 
meeting notes, suggest Mr D and his adviser should reasonably have been aware of his 
exposure to exchange rate risks. I think the information provided to Mr D and his IFA about 
foreign investments, was clear, fair and not misleading. Therefore, if Mr D or his adviser 
thought the issue of what currency was used to purchase the relevant investments was 
important, or caused them a degree of concern, they had the option to raise this with the QC 
Investment Manager (IM). Without this instruction I dont think QC acted unreasonably or 
unfairly in managing Mr Ds portfolio in line with its agreement with him.
I know Mr D thinks he has lost out because of the exchange rate issues, but it should be 
borne in mind that in managing funds its possible to offset higher risk against lower risk 
investments in order to achieve a balanced portfolio. This approach enables an IM to bring 
diversity to a portfolio, which is an important safeguard against volatility in one particular 
asset type or market. So, it can be appropriate for a medium, or even a low risk, portfolio to 
have some exposure to overseas investments using foreign currency. I dont think Mr Ds 
exposure to some currency risk within his overall portfolio was unsuitable.
In any event, it was the IFA who was responsible for categorising and advising Mr D about 
whether the portfolio was suitable for his wants and needs. So, while it was appropriate for 
QC to have disclosed this risk, it was Mr Ds IFAs responsibility to ensure Mr D understood 
any risks associated with the service it had recommended.
In terms of the management and performance of the portfolio itself, I think all the evidence 
does point to the IM actively managing Mr Ds portfolio not only in line with agreed objectives but also his (Mr Ds) specific instructions. The regular updates from QC  both in person and 
in its regular statements and reports  confirmed that it was taking active steps to improve 
performance throughout the whole period Mr D was invested. Whether or not those actions 
succeeded, I dont consider that QC failed to actively manage Mr Ds portfolio.
It's also important to recognise the impact of Mr Ds instructions in 2016 which was to 
remove all equities from his portfolio. This placed significant limitations on the actions of the 
IM in meeting the growth objective. Overall, I do think Mr Ds portfolio was within the sphere 
of what could be expected, positively or negatively, given the risk level chosen and Mr Ds 
need at one point to have all the equities removed from his portfolio and have this asset 
class gradually increased over time.
In terms of the issues around Bs fund, this was transferred to the portfolio in-specie in 2012. 
It was an illiquid asset from the outset and I cant see that QC had any involvement or any 
control over the pricing of this asset. So, I cant fairly hold it responsible for a change in value 
by the time it was transferred to Mr Ds personal account. I think QC acted fairly towards 
Mr D by finding a workaround to transfer it to him personally, and also offering to refund the 
£25 charge it made for this transfer.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed by this outcome, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman