DRN-3204023
Complaint
Ms B has complained that CarCashPoint Limited (CCP) provided her with an unaffordable 
logbook loan. Shes said that shed had bad credit all her life and couldnt afford the 
payments.
Background
CCP provided Ms B with a logbook loan for £1,860.00 in February 2019. This loan had an 
APR of 310.31%, which meant that the total amount of £4,538.82, was due to be repaid in 
78 weekly instalments of £58.19. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that proportionate checks 
would have shown this loan was unaffordable for Ms B and so upheld the complaint. 
CCP disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Ms Bs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms Bs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did CCP complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms B 
would be able to repay her loan without difficulty or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Ms B wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did CCP act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did CCP complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms B would be 
able to repay her loan without difficulty or experiencing significant adverse consequences?
CCP provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required CCP to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Ms Bs ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so CCP had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Ms B. In practice this
meant that CCP had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Ms B undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for CCP to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms B and it wasnt 
enough for CCP to simply lend because the loan was secured on Ms Bs vehicle. In fact as 
there was the possibility of Ms B losing her vehicle, I think it is reasonable to expect a 
proportionate check to have reflected this. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were CCPs checks reasonable and proportionate?
CCP carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Ms B prior to providing her 
with this loan. CCP checks suggested Ms Bs income was around £1,600.00 a month with a 
further £460 in benefits and her expenditure around £1,380.00 In CCPs view this left  Ms B 
with over £350 in disposable income, once her discretionary spending was taken into 
account, which was more than enough to cover the payments to this loan. CCP also 
obtained bank statements from Ms B. Ive carefully considered what CCP has said. But its worth noting that there was information 
in the bank statements which seriously called into question the conclusions reached in the 
income and expenditure assessments. Firstly, CCP knew that Ms Bs expenditure was 
significantly higher than it had calculated.  
Secondly, there was a significant amount of gambling on the statement obtained. And finally 
Ms B was making payments to at least one debt collector and a high cost lender. So the 
other information obtained clearly contradicted the notion that Ms B had a monthly 
disposable income of the amount CCP relied on. 
And I would have expected CCP to have found out more about these apparent 
discrepancies before agreeing to lend. As I cant see that this CCP did do this and instead 
chose to rely on what appears to be overly optimistic income and expenditure assessment, I 
dont think that the checks it carried out before providing Ms B with her loan were reasonable 
and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to CCP that Ms B would have 
been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told CCP that Ms B would have been unable 
to sustainably repay this loan.
CCP was required to establish whether Ms B could make her loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, it is clear Ms Bs income 
was being used to meet her extensive existing commitments as well as payments to high-
cost creditors. Further checks would also have shown that the reason Ms B was struggling 
was because she was gambling significant sums. So I think she was always unlikely to be 
able to make the payments she was being asked to commit to without borrowing further or 
experiencing financial difficulty.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Ms B would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. 
And, in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have alerted CCP to the fact that Ms B was in no sort of position to be able to 
make the payments on this loan in a sustainable manner.
Did CCP act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms B in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that CCP acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms B in some other way. So I 
dont think CCP acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms B in some other way.
Did Ms B lose out as a result of CCP unfairly providing her with this loan?As Ms B paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that she shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that she lost out as a result of what CCP did wrong.
So I think that CCP needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what CCP needs to do to put things right for Ms B
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Bs complaint for CCP to put things right by:
terminating the bill of sale and transferring the ownership of Ms Bs car back to her;
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £1,860.00 
originally lent. CCP should treat any payments made should the new starting balance 
be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Ms B;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Ms B to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Ms Hs credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires CCP to take off tax from this interest. CCP must give    
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Id also remind CCP of its obligation to exercise forbearance if it intends to collect on an 
outstanding balance, should one remain after all adjustments have been made to the 
account, and its the case that Ms B is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint. CarCashPoint Limited needs 
to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman