DRN-2315809
The complaint
Mr F complains that the car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality
What happened
In April 2019 Mr F entered into a 60-month hire purchase agreement for a used car with 
Blue Motor. The car was five years old and had a mileage of 48,000.
In July 2019 the car went into limp mode and Mr F took the car back to the dealership. 
The garage replaced the inlet manifold and swirl flap under the warranty. The car was 
returned to Mr F but in August 2019 it again went into limp mode. Mr F took the car to 
another garage for investigation and it said the car was displaying a fault code that related 
to the stored air mass hose being reduced. Mr F took the car back to the dealership, it 
subjected the car to a smoke test and an extensive road test but was unable to reproduce 
the fault and the car was returned to Mr F.
A couple of days after the car was returned to Mr F the Ad Blue warning light illuminated 
on the cars dashboard. Mr F contacted Blue Motor to complain and spoke to one of its 
agents. Mr F said he now wanted to reject the car but was told by the agent that as this 
was a new issue he couldnt do so as the retailer had a right to attempt a repair first. Mr F 
says he booked the car in for repairs at the dealership later in September 2019.
Mr F says he then got separate advice and was told the information given to him by the 
Blue Motor agent was incorrect. He again told Blue Motor that he wanted to reject the car.
Blue Motor contacted the dealership in October 2019 and the dealership told it that there 
had been two repairs over the last six months and confirmed the car was showing a fault 
code for something being in the Ad Blue tank. The dealership said it had advised Mr F to 
take the car to a manufacturers specialist garage for investigation, as it had been unable 
to find a fault. It said that the Ad Blue might be contaminated, or alternatively the sensor 
might be faulty.
Blue Motor arranged for the car to be independently inspected. The independent 
engineer prepared a report that stated there were no warning lights displaying when the 
engine was switched on and that the car started easily with no undue noise or smoke 
from the exhaust. The report concluded that there was no evidence of an underlying 
issue with the fuel system and that the car was fit for purpose.
Blue Motor then requested the independent engineer to collect a sample of the Ad Blue 
for analysis, but this proved impossible as the tank was fitted with an anti-syphon 
feature. The only way to take a sample would be to remove the Ad Blue tank and this 
would have to be carried out by a specialist. The engineer said, in their opinion, they 
didnt think the tank was contaminated.
Blue Motor said that Mr F couldnt reject the car as there was no evidence the issue with 
the Ad Blue had been present or developing from the point of sale. So, Mr F complained 
to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt 
think the car had been of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. He said that a reasonable 
person wouldnt expect a car of this age and mileage to have had so many faults in such a 
short space of time. The car had required repairs in the past and there was an outstanding 
issue with the Ad Blue, the cause of which hadnt been confirmed. Our investigator didnt 
agree that the problem with the Ad Blue was likely to be due to the wear and tear of the 
car having been used by Mr F.
Our investigator said it was fair for Mr F to be able to reject the car, have his deposit 
refunded, be reimbursed one week of his monthly payments for the period he was 
without a car and receive £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience of 
having to deal with the faulty car.
Blue Motor disagreed with our investigators view. It said the car had required repairs on 
only one previous occasion for the inlet manifold and swirl in July 2019. There had been a 
previous visit to the dealership for a service, but this was not for a mechanical repair as 
only the wipers had been replaced. It said no fault could be found when the car was taken 
into the dealership in September 2019 and the independent engineer had also found 
nothing wrong. Blue Motor said the car had only been repaired once and this was a repair 
Mr F had agreed to in July 2019.
Blue Motors said the Ad Blue issue had then arisen, but the independent engineer hadnt 
been able to find anything wrong with the car. Blue Motor said that by the time the car was 
inspected by the independent engineer Mr F had driven the car for around 6,500 miles 
which would indicate that any issue with the Ad Blue was likely to have been a 
maintenance issue, as it requires topping up every 5,000 to 8,000 miles. Although it 
appreciated the Ad Blue couldnt be tested, the independent engineer had said that, even 
if it was found to be contaminated, there wouldnt be any evidence as to when this had 
occurred, and it couldnt be proved this would have been the case at the point of sale. It 
said there was no ground for the car to be rejected.
As the parties were unable to agree the compalint was passed to me and I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines.
As the hire purchase agreement enetered into by Mr F was a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service was able to consider complaints relating to it. Blue Motor was also 
the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and was responsible for a 
complaint about thier quality.
Under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  theres  an implied  term that when  goods  are 
supplied  "the quality  of the goods  is satisfactory".  The relevant  law says  that the 
quality  of the goods  is satisfactory  if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable  
person  would  consider  satisfactory  taking  into account  any description  of the goods,  
price  and all other  relevant  circumstances.
The relevant  law also says  that the quality  of the goods  includes  their general  state  
and condition,  and other  things  like their fitness  for purpose,  appearance  and 
finish,  freedom  from minor  defects,  safety,  and durability  can be aspects  of the 
quality  of the goods.
Here,  the car wasn't  new being  five-years  old with a mileage  of 48,000  and so I 
thought  a reasonable  person  would  have  expected  there  to be issues  with maintenance  and repairs  over time.  The components  of a car cant  reasonably  be 
expected  to last forever.
Where  a cars  found  to be faulty,  this doesn't  necessarily  mean  the consumer  is 
entitled  to reject  it straight  away.  It will depend  on the nature  of the fault and when  it 
was discovered.  For instance,  under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015,  if the fault arises  
after the first 30 days  has passed  from acquiring  the goods,  then the retailers  
provided  with an opportunity  of repairing  it.
Mr F said the car had been  to the garage  on several  occasions  for faults  to be 
repaired  but, looking  at the evidence  that has been  presented,  I didnt  think  I could  
reasonably  agree  with that. Looking  at the job cards  that have  been  produced.  Id 
seen  that the car was at the garage  in April 2019  for a MOT  and for its wipers  to be 
replaced.And   I wouldnt  count  that as being  repaired  as wipers  are serviceable  parts  
(they  wear  out with use) so would  need  to be replaced  from time to time.
The car was then taken  back  to the dealership  in July 2019  when  it went  into limp 
mode  and a drivetrain  error  was showing.  On this occasion  it wasnt  disputed  that the 
car needed  an expensive  repair  to the manifold  and swirl flap. These  repairs  were  
carried  out under  the warranty  and I thought  it was reasonable  to say that Mr F had 
agreed  to this being  undertaken.  The car was returned  to Mr F once  the repairs  had 
been  completed.
However,  the car then went  into limp mode  for second  time,  and Mr F took it to a 
different  garage  who said they had found  a fault code  relating  to the air mass  flow.  Mr 
F returned  the car to the dealership  who,  despite  various  investigations  and a road 
test, were  unable  to find anything  wrong.  So, the car was returned  to Mr F and a few 
days  later the Ad Blue warning  light illuminated.
Id seen  that the dealership  confirmed  this light was on and recommended  the car 
was investigated  by a manufacturer  approved  garage.  At this point  Mr F had driven  
the car an additional  5,000  from the point  of sale.  Mr F told Blue Motor  he thought  the 
issue  with the Ad Blue was due to something  that had been  done  by the dealership  
as they had taken  the car in and returned  it only a short  time before  the Ad Blue 
warning  light had come  on.
But Id seen  that the independent  engineer  had said this warning  light hadnt  been  
illuminated  when  hed inspected  the car and that it had started  as expected.  They  also 
said they could  find no evidence  of overheating  or of coolant  or oil leaks.  The 
independent  engineer  said if the symptoms  reappeared  that it would  be prudent  for 
the Ad Blue to be tested  but said such  a test wouldnt  be able to establish  when  any 
contaminant  had been  added  or if it had. Testing  the Ad Blue was subsequently  
discovered  not to be possible  without  removing  the tank.  So, I didnt  know  if there  was 
a problem  with the Ad Blue or not.
Looking  at the evidence  thats  been  provided  I didnt  think  I could  reasonably  say that 
Mr F was entitled  to reject  the car as I didnt  think  I had sufficient  evidence  as to what,  
if anything,  was wrong  with the car currently.  While  I accepted  there  had been  a 
problem  with the manifold  and swirl flap these  items  were  repaired  and I hadnt  seen  
any evidence  that these  repairs  werent  successful  as, although  the car went  into limp 
mode  a second  time after these  repairs,  the dealership  wasnt  able to find any 
problem.  I also hadnt  seen  any evidence  that the car had any further  instances  of 
going  into limp mode.
It was suggested  that the issue  with Ad Blue could  be that either  an unknown  substance  had got into the tank,  or alternatively  the sensor  was faulty.  Ad Blue is a 
maintenance  issue  in that it should  be added  around  every  5-8,000  miles.  Mr F said 
he added  it once  but was unsure  if the dealership  had also added  it at any point.  Ad 
Blue doesnt  appear  on any of the Job Cards  I had been  provided  with,  so I didnt  
have  any evidence  that the dealership  had added  any to the car.
For me to agree  that it was fair and reasonable  that Mr F rejected  the car I needed  to 
be satisfied  that there  was an issue  with the Ad Blue,  and that this had been  
developing  or was present  at the point  of sale.  Alternatively,  I would  need  to be 
satisfied  that the fault with the Ad Blue was linked  to the repairs  carried  out in July 
2019.
Although  I accepted  the warning  light had illuminated  and that this had also been  
seen  by the dealership,  by the time the independent  engineer  inspected  the car it was 
no longer  showing.  Id seen  from the mileage  noted  on the dealerships  Job Card  for 
when  the car had been  brought  in with the Ad Blue warning  light illuminated,  and the 
mileage  recorded  by independent  engineer  in their report,  that Mr F had been  able to 
drive  the car for an additional  1,500  miles  in between  these  two inspections.  So, I 
didnt  think  I could  say this indicated  that there  had been  a problem  using  the car 
after the Ad Blue warning  light had come  on. Id also seen  that the independent  
engineer  was unable  to identify  any potential  fault that could  have  caused  this 
warning  light to illuminate.
Taking  into account  the mileage  undertaken  by Mr F since  the point  of sale,  which  
was around  6,500  miles  in total,  and that Ad Blue was a serviceable  item (that is it 
needs  to be topped  up from time to time),  I didnt  think  I could  reasonably  say the 
problem  with the Ad Blue was present  or developing  at the point  of sale.  If the Ad Blue 
had been  contaminated  from April 2019  then I would  have  expected  the cars  warning  
light to have  indicated  a problem  much  earlier  than it had.
I also didnt  have  any evidence  that the issue  with the Ad Blue was due to anything  
done  by the Dealership.  I appreciated  the car had been  in the garage  a short  time 
before  the warning  light came  on, but the dealership  had been  investigating  the mass  
air flow fault code.  The Job Card  didnt  say that any Ad Blue had been  added  to the 
car nor did it appear  from the Job Card  that any was added  when  the manifold  repair  
was undertaken.  So, I didnt  think  I could  reasonably  say the dealership  caused  the 
problem  when  it was repairing  the car.
For the reasons  given  above,  I wasnt  intending  to uphold  Mr Fs complaint  as I didnt  
think  I had enough  evidence  to say whether  the car has a fault with the Ad Blue or, if 
it did, how or when  that fault arose.
Neither  Mr F nor Blue Motor  has asked  me to look at my decision  again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has raised any new points or asked me to re-consider my provisional decision. 
I have however, looked again at the information provided by both Mr F and Blue Motor and 
the conclusions that I reached, but I havent changed my view. 
I dont have sufficient evidence to reasonably say that there is a fault with the cars Ad Blue 
which either has been present from the point of sale or was due to a repair carried out by the dealership. In these circumstances dont think Mr F is entitled to reject the car and Im not 
upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman