DRN-2496893
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Coutts & Company failed to honour an offer to pay a 1% 
promotional bonus on their transferred ISAs.
 
What happened
In 2018 Mr and Mrs S were already longstanding customers of Coutts, utilising several 
aspects of its service. During a meeting in August of that year to discuss their general 
financial circumstances, it was noted that they held stocks and shares ISAs with another 
provider. Coutts representatives explained what it could offer in this respect and it was left 
as an action point from the meeting that the possibility of transferring the ISAs to Coutts be 
followed up with Mr and Mrs S.
In March 2019 there was a discussion with Mr S about transferring the ISAs in which the 
promotional offer relating to Coutts ISAs was mentioned. The offer was that any investment 
into the Coutts Invest ISA platform between April 2019 and June 2019 would earn a 1% 
bonus. 
The process of transferring Mr and Mrs S ISAs in-specie commenced following this 
conversation. There was some delay relating to Coutts not being able to hold one of the 
stocks, but the transfers eventually completed in October 2019. 
Around this time Mr and Mrs S became aware that the offer wasnt as theyd understood it to 
be. They had thought that the offer applied to everything that was transferred to Coutts. But 
it was actually the case that it applied only to transfers (and new subscriptions) made to the 
Coutts Direct ISA platform. This was a specific offering involving investment in one of five 
Coutts funds. Investments in other funds  such as Mr and Mrs S had been invested in with 
their previous provider  could be held with Coutts but not on the Coutts Direct platform, and 
therefore the promotional wasnt applicable to them.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Coutts, saying that they had been told the offer applied across 
all holdings, so they should be paid the bonus on their transferred holdings. Coutts 
acknowledged that some confusion had arisen and apologised for this, but it didnt feel that 
Mr and Mrs S had been misled. It did, however, offer to meet any of its charges and related 
transfer fees incurred if Mr and Mrs S decided to transfer their ISAs back to their previous 
provider. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached the same conclusion 
as Coutts. In brief, she didnt feel that it had acted incorrectly in any way to influence Mr and 
Mrs Ss decision to the transfer their ISAs. She felt that the transfers were something theyd 
been considering following the early discussions in 2018, in order to bring everything 
together in one place, and the promotional offer in 2019 was simply seen as an additional 
bonus. But unfortunately, it was misunderstood as being applicable to all their holdings, as 
opposed to just anything that they might decide to place on the Coutts Direct platform.  
The investigator therefore didnt think it would be fair to require Coutts to pay the bonus on 
the transferred amounts. And she didnt feel the evidence supported Mr and Mrs S being 
misinformed, either prior to the transfer, or in emails relating to the ongoing administration of 
the transfer. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators view. They maintained that they theyd been 
offered the 1% on all their holdings if they transferred, and they felt that several emails sent 
to them by members of Coutts staff in relation to the issue confirmed this to be the case.
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, the matter was referred to me to 
review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as that reached by the 
investigator. I dont think the evidence supports a finding that Coutts misinformed Mr and 
Mrs S about the promotional offer. Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more likely 
than not to have happened in light of the evidence and wider circumstances.
While I understand that Mr and Mrs S will strongly disagree, I think, on balance, this was 
simply a case of a misunderstanding at the outset, which led to all subsequent 
communication between Mr and Mrs S and Coutts being at crossed purposes. Hence why 
there was, at times, some perceived ambiguity in the emails sent between the parties. 
Theres nothing in the note of the meeting of August 2018 that suggests the discussions 
around the potential transferring of the ISAs involved mention of the promotional offer. And 
that wouldnt seem surprising given that the offer didnt start until April 2019.
It appears the first mention of the offer was in the call of March 2019, which would appear to 
be in keeping with the timing of the offer. And in this call the Coutts representative did refer 
to the platform as Coutts Direct. I can understand how this couldve been construed by 
anyone unfamiliar with Coutts ISA set-up as meaning the general Coutts ISA platform. And, 
therefore, why Mr C might have left the call with the impression that the 1% would apply to 
all transfers. 
But that isnt what was said on the call and I note that the copies of promotional material sent 
to Mr and Mrs S made clear that the offer applied to investment specifically in Coutts Direct. 
If the link to Coutts website in the promotional material was followed it was made clear that 
the Courts Direct platform involved investment solely in the five Coutts funds. 
Ive looked at all the communication between Mr and Mrs S and Coutts after this point, 
including that sent when the offer was extended to September 2019. But Ive seen nothing 
that is misleading in itself. I can see that if it was read in the context of an understanding that 
Coutts Direct was effectively the entire Coutts ISA platform theres nothing that would 
necessarily dispel that misunderstanding. But equally, I dont think theres anything in the 
communications that unreasonably encourages any misunderstanding. 
I note what Mr and Mrs S have said about the transfer being in-specie and the fact that this 
should have alerted Coutts to the fact that they wanted to remain invested as they had been 
rather than invest in the Coutts funds. But it seems that Coutts staff were simply under the 
impression that it was Mr and Mrs S intention to transfer in-specie and then, in turn, sell and 
transfer to Coutts Direct. Given the issue with one of the funds held by Mr and Mrs S it 
doesnt seem unreasonable that Coutts staff were under that impression and I dont think the in-specie transfer was enough in itself to alert them to the fact that Mr and Mrs S mightve 
been viewing the promotional offer differently. 
In summary, I do understand Mr and Mrs S frustration and why they reached the conclusion 
they did. But ultimately, I dont think it was the fault of Coutts. I accept there may have been 
occasions where a misunderstanding couldve been picked up. But overall, I dont think there 
was any glaring failure to do so on the part of Coutts. 
Even if any misunderstanding had been picked up sooner, the fair resolution wouldnt have 
been for Coutts to pay Mr and Mrs S the bonus on all their holdings, as it wasnt applicable 
to anything held outside Coutts Direct. Instead, fair resolution wouldve been to compensate 
them for any mistake made, had there been one, and depending upon what point the 
transfer had reached offer to reverse it at no cost, which Coutts has in any event offered to 
do.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman