DRN-1143602
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to be used with their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs L took out a PPI policy in 1993. They paid a monthly amount for the policy and it 
would have covered Mr L if he couldnt work through accident, sickness or if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. I explain why below.
Mr and Mrs L have raised a number of complaint points. Ive read and considered all the 
evidence on the file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. 
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened given 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Nationwide couldnt provide documents from the time of sale. Due to the time thats passed 
since the MPPI was sold I dont think this is unreasonable, these events happened over 26 
years ago. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs L to recall in detail precisely 
what was discussed at the time. So Ive looked at all the submissions made to us to find 
what I think is most likely to have happened in this case.
Both parties and the documentary evidence Ive seen agree that the mortgage product Mr 
and Mrs L chose to take out was conditional on taking out an MPPI policy. In my view there 
was nothing inherently wrong with Nationwides position and if Mr and Mrs L had decided 
they did not wish to purchase MPPI cover, they could have opted instead for a different 
mortgage product from Nationwide or approached another lender.But Nationwide still had to sell Mr and Mrs L something that was suitable, if it provided 
advice. Or give Mr and Mrs L sufficient information to make an informed choice about the 
policy if it sold the policy without a tailored recommendation. 
Mr and Mrs L think Nationwide recommended the MPPI to them and Nationwide have said 
that they didnt. I dont need to make a firm finding on this because I dont think it makes a 
difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
I say this because looking at Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time, if advice was given, 
the MPPI seems to have been not unsuitable for them. For example Mr L was eligible for the 
policy and wasnt affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And they 
seem to have had a need for the cover. Mr and Mrs L told us that they couldnt recall what 
Mr Ls sick pay arrangements were in 1993, and that seems very reasonable considering the 
passing of time. However, the benefits of the policy could have paid out in addition to those 
benefits and would have paid out for up to two years, which seems likely to have been for 
longer than Mr Ls employer would have paid him at his full rate of pay. 
And whilst Mr and Mrs L said they had modest savings at the time, I note that at the time of 
the re-mortgage they chose to protect whatever savings they may have had by not using 
them to have a smaller mortgage. So the policy would have further protected those savings 
and reduced Mr Ls reliance on whatever help Mrs L may have been in a position to offer 
him. 
This policy couldve covered the mortgage repayment for up to 24 months if Mr L was too ill 
to work, or if he lost his job. So thinking about all of the above and the potentially serious 
consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I think the policy would have 
been useful to Mr and Mrs L if something went wrong. 
And for the same reasons given above that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think better 
information would have stopped Mr and Mrs L from taking out the policy. 
Mr and Mrs L think the policy was unsuitable because it provided no cover for Mrs L. 
Nationwide says it provided information only in this case, sufficient for Mr and Mrs L to 
decide if the policy was right for them. With respect to who was covered by the policy I think 
the documentary evidence suggests that Mr and Mrs L were aware at the time of the sale 
that the policy only covered Mr L. So, they could have raised this issue many years ago if 
they felt then that this made the policy unsuitable for them. 
But even if the policy was recommended and the benefit split was unsuitable Im not sure 
that Mr and Mrs L have suffered any detriment as a result of that. I say that because if the 
benefit had been split between Mr and Mrs L, the overall cost to Mr and Mrs L is likely to 
have been the same, had they been able to split the cover. This is because the cost of a 
policy like this is based on the benefit it would pay. So, although the policy only covered Mr 
L, the cost wouldnt have changed if the benefit had been shared between Mr and Mrs L. 
This means that Mr and Mrs L would only be worse off if Mrs L needed to make a claim 
during the time the policy was held by Mr L. But Ive seen no evidence this happened. So, as 
Mr and Mrs L never made a claim on the policy, I dont think theyve lost out. 
Had Mr and Mrs L chosen to provide cover for each of them for the mortgage amount, the 
PPI would have cost twice as much. And that would have undone some or all of the benefit 
of the lower mortgage rate they were being offered. So, although theyve suggested now that 
the policy was unsuitable for them because Mrs L was not covered, I dont think that they 
would have chosen to have full cover for them both at the time of the sale. As such, I do not 
consider that this issue is sufficient to make an otherwise suitable policy unsuitable. my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about Nationwide 
Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman