DRN-3506826
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is that they are unhappy their application for a mortgage with 
Clydesdale Bank Plc was declined. This meant that they had to pay an early repayment 
charge (ERC) when they paid off their existing mortgage. While they accept that Clydesdale 
can decide what its appetite for risk is, they dont think it should have acted as a barrier to 
them to access borrowing. In addition, Mr and Mrs T think that the amount of the ERC was 
disproportionate and unfairly high. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage with Clydesdale. The mortgage was originally for 
£477,000 over a term of 25 years. By November 2020 this had reduced to around £428, 000 
outstanding. Attached to the mortgage was an interest rate product which expired on 
30 April 2021. The interest rate product had a decreasing ERC linked to it whereby 
Mr and Mrs T would be charged 2% of the balance if the mortgage if it was paid off in the 
year ending 30 April 2021. This was documented in the mortgage offer they were sent, and 
accepted, in 2019 when they added a new interest rate product to the mortgage. The offer 
went on to confirm what would happen in relation to the ERC if Mr and Mrs T wanted to 
move to a new house:
You can only port this mortgage during the Concessionary Rate Period and if you meet all of 
our lending criteria when you ask to port.
In November 2020 Mr and Mrs T sold their home and repaid the mortgage. They paid an 
ERC of just under £8,600 when they did so. They were told by Clydesdale that if they took a 
new mortgage with it withing six months, they could port the interest rate product and the 
ERC would be refunded.
In January 2021 Mr and Mrs T applied for a mortgage new mortgage of £637,500 over a 
term of 34 years. They asked to port the existing interest rate product to the new mortgage. 
They asked that Clydesdale take into account, when assessing the application, the income 
Mr T would be paid when he started his new job in May 2021. It was unwilling to do so and 
concluded that the affordability of the mortgage was marginal based on Mr and Mrs Ts then 
current incomes. The loan to value was 85% and Mr T was about to change employment 
into one with a probationary period. Clydesdale decided that the combination of these factors 
represented too high a risk for it. It said that it would be willing to lend, but only up to 70% 
LTV.
Mr and Mrs T have told us they didnt have the additional funds needed to reduce the 
mortgage to a 70% LTV. This meant they had to take a mortgage elsewhere and the ERC 
wasnt refunded. They complained.
Clydesdale responded to the complaint, but didnt uphold it. It highlighted that the 2019 
mortgage offer Mr and Mrs T had accepted had set out that an ERC was payable if the 
mortgage was paid off before the end of the interest rate product term. It explained that it 
had been unable to agree the new mortgage application because of the combination of high 
loan to value (LTV) and marginal affordability, and so concluded that the mortgage 
represented more risk than it was willing to accept. It said it had told Mr and Mrs T that it 
would have agreed the application if the LTV was reduced to 70%, but they hadnt accepted 
the proposal. As Mr and Mrs T had arranged their new mortgage with a different lender, 
Clydesdale was satisfied that it was reasonable for it to have applied the ERC when the 
mortgage was repaid. 
Mr and Mrs T also raised a complaint about the amount of the ERC, as they didnt think it 
was fair. Clydesdale again didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the amount of the ERC 
had been documented in the offer theyd accepted. It didnt agree that the amount of the 
ERC was unfair. 
Mr and Mrs T werent satisfied with Clydesdales responses and referred their complaint to 
this service. They said that they did everything they should have in relation to moving and 
applying for a new mortgage. They think that it was a reasonable expectation to think their 
application would be accepted, and it was unfair of Clydesdale to reject their application. 
They also highlighted that theyd had no trouble getting a mortgage for the amount they 
wanted elsewhere. In addition, Mr and Mrs T consider that the size of the ERC was 
disproportionate, given there was only six months left on the term of the product when the 
mortgage was paid off. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld.
Mr and Mrs T didnt accept the investigators findings. They said that they had concluded 
from what had been said the key differentiator between Clydesdale and the other lenders 
theyd approached was that Clydesdale wouldnt take Mr Ts future employment as 
guaranteed. They said that they were not commenting about whether this was reasonable, 
but rather that it shouldnt be their responsibility to predict Clydesdale being different from its 
peers.  Mr and Mrs T went on to comment that they understood that from Clydesdales point 
of view it had done nothing wrong, but neither had they, and it feels like they are being 
penalised.  They understand the principle of the ERC, but they dont think it should act to 
catch out customers in scenarios like theirs. Had they known that Clydesdales lending 
criteria was stricter than its peers, they could have acted differently to avoid having to pay 
the ERC.
In relation to the amount of the ERC, Mr and Mrs T said that they didnt agree that it had 
been calculated fairly. While they could believe that when the charges are applied to a 
portfolio the 2% charge was a fair cost for an average mortgage prepayment. However, 
from their perspective £8,500 was not a reasonable pre-estimate. They set out what 
payments Clydesdale had been due to receive over the remaining six months of the product 
and they didnt think the ERC was equivalent. They also didnt believe there was additional 
risk or costs for the bank regarding funding/swaps etc from them paying off the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs T thought it was completely inappropriate to only apply the FCA guidance from 
Clydesdales point of view, and not theirs.
Our investigator responded to the points Mr and Mrs T had made, but he didnt change his 
conclusions. Mr and Mrs T continued to disagree with the investigator. As Mr and Mrs T 
remained of the view that they had been punished because Clydesdale had different lending 
criteria from other banks, it was decided that the complaint should be passed to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I consider Mr and Mrs Ts individual complaint, I would explain that in order to uphold 
a complaint, I have to find that a financial business did something wrong. It would be only 
then that I would consider compensating a consumer in order to place them in the position 
they would have been in, but for the mistake that had been made.
I would firstly explain that lending decisions are a matter of commercial judgement on the 
part of the lender. A lender is entitled to decide what types of risk it is willing to take when it 
lends. Generally speaking, its not my role to interfere with that judgement or second-guess a 
decision to (or not to) lend where that judgment has been exercised fairly, after proper 
consideration of the application. What I can do is assess whether a lender has exercised its 
discretion fairly, and taken reasonable steps to comply with the obligations placed on it by 
relevant law, regulation and what is considered good business practice at the time of the 
events complained of.
Mr and Mrs T have concluded that their current lender and others they approached were 
willing to assess their application based on the future income Mr T would after he changed 
jobs a few months after his application. I havent seen any evidence that is the case, and 
based on my experience of the mortgage industry, I find that it unlikely any lender would 
assess an application on that basis. Having looked at Clydesdales conclusions about the 
application, it seems more likely that the difference is simply that Mr and Mrs Ts current 
lender reached a different conclusion about the level of risk the application represented or it 
had a higher appetite for risk than Clydesdale. I cant fault Clydesdale for its appetite for risk 
or conclude that it was wrong to decline to lend Mr and Mrs T the amount they wanted in the 
circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs T have said they feel they did everything they could to obtain a mortgage with 
Clydesdale and avoid paying the ERC; that it wasnt their fault they didnt fit within 
Clydesdales appetite for risk. I can understand why they feel the way they do, but the simple 
fact is that what they wanted didnt fit with Clydesdales lending criteria as it was at the time. 
While that isnt their fault, they were made aware that the option to port the interest rate 
product was dependent on the new application fitting within lending criteria at the time of the 
application. There was never a guarantee that an application would be accepted. As such, it 
was not unreasonable for Clydesdale not to refund the ERC.
As for Mr and Mrs Ts concern that the amount of the ERC is unfair, as has already been 
explained, in order to be able to lend to consumers, a lender will borrow money themselves. 
As with loans made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that 
money. When the lender decides the format of the loans its going to use a tranche of money 
for, it has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. Included 
in those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that happens 
some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender remains 
liable for its own cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the lender repays its borrowing 
early, there may be costs associated with that too. As its not just the mortgage itself, but 
often a tranche of mortgage funding that is at risk when there is an early repayment, these 
costs can be quite significant.
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs to 
them of consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage 
basis, but its more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a 
similar type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on 
the lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment and assessment of future 
conditions. The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. It also fulfils the lenders requirement that a consumer is told in advance of taking the mortgage what the ERC 
will be and is given an example of it in monetary terms. 
Mr and Mrs T consider the ERC is unfair because it is for more than the amount of interest 
that would have been paid to Clydesdale over the remaining term of the interest rate 
product. While I know that Mr and Mrs T dont accept this is the case, there are many factors 
that are taken into account when an ERC is calculated and it is not solely based on the 
income a lender will lose on an individual mortgage. Under the rules, provided the charge is 
a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss suffered by Clydesdale if the mortgage is paid early, it 
can make the charge. I have seen the evidence of the calculations, although it cant be made 
publicly available as its commercially sensitive and confidential, I am satisfied the amount 
charged in this case was a reasonable pre-estimate of loss. I dont think the charge should 
be refunded.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs T, and they are unlikely to agree 
with my conclusions, but I dont consider that Clydesdale acted incorrectly when it declined 
their mortgage application or when it declined to refund the ERC. I am also satisfied the ERC 
it charged was a reasonable pre-estimate of Clydesdales loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 July 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman