DRN-1519280
The complaint
Mr G has complained about BISL Limited. He feels that it didnt send all of his policy 
documentation to him which meant he wasnt aware of the keys in car (KIC) exclusion that 
his insurer relied on in turning down his claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G took out a policy through his broker BISL. And later he made a claim under his 
insurance policy as his car was stolen. Unfortunately, his insurer turned down his claim. This 
was because he left his keys in the car and cover is excluded in these circumstances. 
So, Mr G complained to his insurer (which has been looked at separately) and to BISL. He 
said that BISL didnt make him aware of the exclusion and so it mis-sold him the policy. But 
BISL said it sent the relevant documentation when he first took out the policy and that the 
policy wording was made available to Mr G online. But Mr G remained unhappy about this, 
so he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G but didnt uphold his complaint. Although she 
sympathised with Mr G she didnt think that BISL had done anything wrong. She was 
satisfied that it had sent the relevant documentation when Mr G first took out the policy. And 
that he had accessed the online portal which had all his policy documentation, including the 
key facts document (KFD) which clearly showed the KIC clause.
As Mr G didnt agree the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite my natural sympathy for Mr G who has been the victim of 
crime, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr G has advanced a complaint about his insurers decision to decline his claim separately. 
So I will solely look at his brokers (BISL) actions under this complaint. And whether it 
provided Mr G with the appropriate documentation and if it didnt whether this affected 
Mr Gs claim.
As Mr G has been made aware most, if not all, motor insurance policies have a keys in car 
exclusion. This is because modern cars are very difficult to steal and so insurers wish to 
curtail the risk they face by people leaving their car exposed. But this service expects 
insurers to make consumers aware of the clause as it is significant and, in effect, removes all 
cover if a key is left in or on the car.
Mr G has suggested that the policy documents he received through the post following the 
sale of the policy didnt have the keys in car exclusion, but he hasnt been able to provide a 
copy of the documentation he was sent. He has outlined that he left his original policy 
documentation in his car when it was stolen. And he says that he didnt review the policy 
documents on-line as hed already reviewed the ones sent to him through the post. He also 
says that following the theft of his car he requested a hard copy of his policy documentation 
from BISL and this didnt have the KIC exclusion either.
But BISL says that when Mr G changed cars on the policy (before the theft of his car) the full 
wording of the policy documentation was made available to him on line. And it says that 
Mr G accessed the online portal so he should reasonably have been aware of the KIC 
exclusion. But it does accept that it failed to send him a full copy of the policy documentation 
when he requested it after he made the claim. It sent him the slimmed down version in error 
which didnt have all the policy details but clearly referred him to the online portal for the full 
documentation. 
It is difficult to be sure what documentation Mr G received when he first took out his policy 
(before he placed the car that was stolen on cover). I say this as he hasnt been able to 
provide a copy of what he was sent, and it is possible that the documentation he was sent 
included details of the KIC clause and the KFD, but I cant be sure. I say this as although 
BISL believe the full documentation and KFD was sent, it cant evidence its position. 
But the full policy documentation, including the KIC exclusion, was available to Mr G when 
he went online. I cant be sure that he viewed the KIC exclusion, but he ought to have looked 
at the policy summary (KFD) which clearly shows the exclusion. 
I know Mr G has questioned whether BISLs records about when he accessed the online 
portal are correct. But BISL has provided details of when he accessed the policy. I have no 
reason to doubt the accuracy of these records and I find it difficult to believe that anyone 
else accessed his policy. And BISL has shown that his online portal was accessed on a few 
occasions, both when he first took the policy out and when he changed vehicles.
However, as Ive already explained practically all motor insurance policies have a KIC clause 
and so I think Mr G wouldve always had his claim excluded. And any policy Mr G wouldve 
bought would have had the same clause. 
I say this as Mr G didnt deliberately leave a set of keys in the car (perhaps hidden away in 
his glove box) but he was lulled into a false sense of security by the thief. Mr G had 
advertised his car for sale and the thief clearly gained his confidence to the extent that he left 
them with the car and the key while he went to get kitchen towels so he could check the oil. 
By the time he returned to the driveway he saw the thief speeding away in his car. So, Im 
not persuaded that Mr G wouldve acted any differently in any event. Mr G left his keys with 
the car as he trusted the individual concerned, not because he thought he would be insured 
if he left the keys in the car or with the car.
Finally, Mr G says it took the insurer over a year to decline his claim. And feels that if the KIC 
exclusion was present in the policy documentation then it wouldnt have taken so long to 
decline his claim. He says this as he was clear when he reported the incident that he had left 
the key in the boot of the car at the time of the theft. I understand that any delay in deciding 
whether the claim would be met or not stemmed from the circumstances surrounding the 
theft. And I would expect any insurer to be thorough in its investigations following a theft 
claim and look at whether Mr G was close enough to his car to act as a deterrent which I 
understand it has. As Ive already outlined this isnt a matter for BISL but the insurance 
company in any event. However, I dont find this unusual.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman