DRN-3893405
The complaint
Mr E complains Nationwide Building Society have accused him of being racist when he isnt, 
barred him from his local branch, and the branch manager read out a letter in the banking 
hall so others could hear.
What happened
Mr E had an accident while he was abroad and when he returned he went into his local 
branch to discuss the issues hed had trying to get through to the insurance company. He 
asked for the branch manager, who introduced himself as such, and then started calling him 
mate which Mr E wasnt happy with. Mr E wanted to speak to the actual branch manager 
and was told he wasnt here today  but 20 minutes later they walked across. Mr E got the 
name of the branch manager he wasnt happy with but decided to complain because he kept 
calling him mate when Mr E had asked him not to, and he was walking around with coffee 
in his hand.
Nationwide accepted their branch manager shouldnt have referred to Mr E as mate but 
didnt think hed done anything wrong by drinking coffee while discussing matters with him. 
And they said although the person Mr E spoke to was the deputy branch manager, when the 
actual branch manager isnt available, then the person Mr E spoke to becomes the branch 
manager  so he didnt do anything wrong in introducing himself in that way. The actual 
branch manager was in a meeting and wasnt expected to be in during the day, but because 
the meeting finished early, they went to the branch which is why Mr E saw him.
They added that during the phone call on 30 June 2022 Mr E described the branch manager 
in an unacceptable way  including a reference to his skin tone which is racist. They also 
said Mr E acted in an intimidating manner which is unacceptable. So, because of this, 
theyre closing his accounts. They said theyre entitled to close his accounts immediately but 
gave him two months notice. They credited Mr Es account with £15 for the branch manager 
calling him mate, but otherwise didnt uphold his complaint. They also asked him not to go 
into the branch given his previous interactions.
In a second separate visit before Mr E received this letter he went in to branch for another 
issue. He says the same person printed out the letter and took great delight in reading it 
aloud in front of 15-20 people making him feel embarrassed. 
Nationwide said they found no evidence the branch manager was unprofessional when 
serving him.
Unhappy with Nationwides responses Mr E asked us to look into things  saying he wasnt 
complaining about the account closure but was very unhappy at being called a racist, and 
the way he was treated in the branch the second time.
One of our Investigators considered things but found there wasnt enough evidence to 
suggest Nationwide needed to do anymore  so she didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr E didnt accept this. He asked that its explained to him how hes supposed to refer to 
someone without talking about the colour of their skin, why he wasnt given a copy of the 
call, why there is no CCTV and why were taking Nationwides word over his. So, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to make it clear my role is to consider whether Nationwide have dealt with Mr Es 
complaint fairly and put matters right where needed. If Im satisfied they have, then I wont 
ask them to do anything further. For the reasons Ill go on to explain, Im satisfied they have 
acted fairly.
Ive listened to the phone call on 30 June 2022. In this call Mr E had already given the name 
of the individual he wanted to complain about on several occasions, before he then chose to 
say:
Hes Asian, but he looks maybe a half-caste Asian very pale, my suntan made me look 
darker than him anyway.
In Nationwides final response letter, they said During your call with us on 30 June you 
described [branch manager] in an unacceptable nature which included a reference to his 
skin tone which is racist.
One of the questions Mr E has asked me to explain is how to describe the individual in 
question without referring to the colour of their skin. As Mr E knew the individuals name, 
thats how youd refer to him. Whatever his motivation, the language he used was offensive 
and inappropriate.
Nationwide have explained their Verbal and Aggressive Behaviour guidelines cover many 
different issues  and say Racial abuse  any reference to colour, dress, religion etc.
Nationwide took the view that Mr Es comments were outdated and offensive, and this wasnt 
something they were prepared to condone. They dont have to continue a relationship with 
anyone, and the terms and conditions allow them to close the accounts  which is what 
theyve done.
Mr Es comments contradict Nationwides policy. So, I dont think theyve acted unreasonably 
in closing down Mr Es accounts, nor in the way theyve communicated that decision to him  
including their reasons for doing so.
Listening to Mr Es concerns about the branch manager it seems to be largely based on 
them calling him mate. I think this kind of colloquial language is commonplace these days  
so at face value I dont think there is necessarily anything wrong with that to begin with. But, 
I do agree it wasnt acceptable for the individual to continue to call Mr E mate after theyd 
been asked not to. For this I can see Nationwide awarded £15 which Im satisfied is fair.
Having heard Mr Es other concerns about the branch manager in the first visit  drinking 
coffee and explaining the actual branch manager wasnt available  Im satisfied with 
Nationwides explanations here. It doesnt sound unreasonable that a staff member would 
carry a drink around with them when theyre serving customers  and if the actual branch 
manager wasnt expected to be in that day, then the deputy branch manager becomes the 
branch manager for the day.Turning now to the second visit after the decision had been made to close the accounts 
unfortunately no CCTV is available. This is usually only available within 30 days, so I dont 
find it unusual Nationwide cant provide this. 
This means I need to decide what I think is more likely than not, based on the evidence I do 
have. This includes Mr Es testimony, along with the branch managers testimony. 
Mr E says there were 15-20 people in the branch and he was basically embarrassed by the 
branch manager reading the letter aloud. The branch manager says he was shocked and 
surprised to see Mr E in the branch given hed been barred by them previously  and that 
no-one overheard them and he didnt read the letter aloud.
Because I wasnt present at the time I cant know for sure who is right. What Mr E has said 
could be entirely accurate, but equally, so could the branch managers testimony saying they 
didnt do anything wrong. As things stand, Im not satisfied I have enough evidence to say 
Nationwide did anything wrong.
Finally, I note Mr E has concerns that he wasnt given a copy of the call. Ive seen 
Nationwide say he was given the call, which is information our Investigator told Mr E. Its 
unclear if Mr E did or didnt receive a copy of the call  but the relevant comments were 
previously explained to him by our Investigator. So, Im satisfied Mr E knew the basis on 
which Nationwide, our Investigator, made their decisions and had the chance to dispute that 
evidence before I decided his case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman