DRN-1610076
The complaint
Mr W complains Motability Operations Limited (MO) has been giving him very poor 
customer service meaning, for example, that repairs have taken longer than they should 
have done. Hes also unhappy that hes often unable to get through to his point of contact.
What happened
Mr W has a vehicle that he hires from MO as part of the Motability Scheme.
Mr W asked MO to repair damage to his vehicles bodywork and screen. He says that the 
dates he was offered didnt work for him, and that an engineer who was sent out to him 
arrived an hour after the time slot hed been given.
Mr W says he couldnt get through to the person hed been told to deal with at MO. He also 
says he felt belittled and patronised when he could get through and talk to them. So he 
complained about not been able to deal with customer services, like everyone else, and 
about the problems he had getting his vehicle repaired. He was also unhappy that MO didnt 
provide him with the vehicle he wanted whilst his was off the road.
MO investigated Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. MO agreed that it had taken a long 
time for the repairs to Mr Ws car to be done, but it didnt think Mr W had always helped. MO 
then suspended Mr W from the Motability Scheme given the way hed spoken to their staff. 
Following our involvement, MO said that Mr W would need to appoint a representative if he 
wanted to remain on the Motability Scheme. Mr W remained unhappy and complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint. They didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint 
and agreed with MO that its staff shouldnt put up with the abuse they had. Mr W disagreed 
and asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. So thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the file that Mr W isnt happy with the time it took for repairs to his car to be 
done, nor is he happy with the customer service hes received from MO. For example, I can 
see hes unhappy with the vehicle MO offered him whilst his car was getting repaired. I 
agree with our investigator that it did take time to repair Mr Ws car, but I dont agree that the 
time taken was unreasonable. For me, the more important issue is whether MO was entitled 
to suspend Mr W and then insist on him using a representative if he wanted to remain a 
member of the Motability Scheme. So thats what Im going to focus on now.
Ive heard a large number of calls between Mr W and MO and between Mr W and our own 
service. Im also aware of Mr Ws disabilities, and how they can cause challenging behaviour 
at times. There are, however, a significant number of calls when, in my opinion, Mr W isnt 
rude or abusive because of any disability he has, or because of his circumstances. There 
are, to put it simply, a significant number of calls when, in my opinion, Mr W is rude or 
abusive because he believes its his right to be so. In fact hes told us that he can shout and swear at people if theyre not doing their job. Thats not right  shouting and swearing at 
people even if you feel theyre not doing their job isnt acceptable. To make matters worse, in 
this case all of the staff Ive heard Mr W speak to were trying to help him. None of them 
deserved the abuse they received. So I dont think MO acted unfairly or unreasonably when 
it told Mr W that hed only be able to remain a member of the Motability Scheme if he 
appointed a representative.
In light of what Ive said, I agree with our investigator that Mr Ws complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. I can see  particularly having listened to some of the calls Mr W has had with us  
that he has, at times, had a lot going on in his life. I appreciate that at times things have 
been very difficult for him. He can expect businesses to be flexible and understanding when 
this is the case. And businesses can in turn expect him not to be rude or abusive.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman