DRN-4172429
The complaint
Mr B, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
proportionate affordability checks before it granted his loans. Had it done so, Morses
wouldve realised he couldnt afford them.
What happened
Mr B was advanced five home collected loans and Ive included some of the information
weve received about them in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
repaymentshighest 
repayment 
per loan
1 £500.00 16/08/2017 29/03/2018 33 £25.00
2 £500.00 22/01/2018 30/08/2018 33 £25.00
3 £500.00 16/01/2019 01/08/2019 33 £25.00
4 £500.00 14/11/2019 29/06/2020 34 £25.00
gap in lending 
5 £400.00 13/04/2021 01/11/2021 35 £20.00
Following Mr Bs representatives complaint Morses responded to explain that it wasnt going 
to uphold the complaint. Mr Bs representative didnt accept the outcome and instead 
referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He thought Morses had made a reasonable decision
to provide loans 1, 2 and 5 so he didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint about them.
However, the adjudicator concluded when loans 3 and 4 were given to Mr B that the lending
was now harmful taking account of his loan history and his time in debt. So Morses ought to
have realised these loans werent sustainable for him. Loans 3 and 4 were upheld.
Mr Bs representative acknowledged the adjudicators assessment but no further information
or comments were provided.
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached. Ive summarised its
comments below:
There were breaks in lending between loans 2 and 3 and loans 3 and 4 and these
breaks show Mr B wasnt reliant on the lending.
Mr Bs loan amounts didnt increase in value and so his weekly commitment stayed
the same at £25.
The loans were repaid without undue hardship.
Mr Bs weekly income for loans 3 and 4 was the same and was confirmed by the 
credit reference agency.
Mr B had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan repayments.
The case was then passed to an ombudsman. I then issued my provisional decision which 
explained the reasons why I was intending to not uphold Mr Bs complaint. A copy of the 
provisional findings follows this in italics and forms part of this final decision.
Both parties were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as possible, 
but in any event no later than 6 June 2023. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the provisional decision.
Mr Bs representative acknowledged the provisional decision and explained it had been sent 
to Mr B and it would let us know what he says. To date, no further comments have been 
received. 
The deadline for responses has now passed, and so I see no reason not to proceed to issue 
the final decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts hed
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to
the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of different things,
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Mr Bs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. The adjudicator thought this
applied in Mr Bs complaint in relation to loans 3 and 4.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay his
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Neither Morses nor Mr B (or his representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the
adjudicator reached about loans 1, 2 and 5. I therefore no longer think these loans are in
dispute. So, I say no more about it. Instead, this decision will focus on whether loans 3 and 4
ought to have been granted.
Loans 3 and 4
I thought about the reason why the adjudicator upheld these two loans and having done so, I
dont think Morses ought to have realised the loans were unstainable for Mr B. He had
repaid his loans without undue difficulty; his borrowing wasnt increasing and there were
gaps between some of the loans.
Although the gaps between loans 2 and 3 and loans 3 and 4 arent enough for Morses to
have reasonably concluded it could start of a new lending chain they are enough to have
indicated to Morses that Mr B wasnt reliant on these loans. For example, considering, there
was a nearly five-month gap between repaying loan 2 and returning for loan 3. So, I cant
agree, that Morses wouldve believed these loans to be unsustainable for Mr B and therefore
have automatically declined them.
What I have done is reconsider these loans based on the information Morses had at the time
and having done so, I am not upholding these loans and Ive explained why below.
For both loans Mr B declared an income of £425 per week and Morses said this was verified
with a credit reference agency  but it hasnt provided the details of the check or the results.
It also said, the income remained similar to what was declared for loans 1 and 2  where it
obtained a copy of Mr Bs wage slip  again these havent been provided.
Mr Bs outgoings were declared as being £319.08 per week for loan 3. This left, Mr B
£105.92 of disposable income to afford the repayment for loan 3 of £25 per week.
 
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out before loan 3 was provided, were
likely to be proportionate and these showed Mr B would be able to afford his repayment. So,
on current evidence, I am therefore intending to not uphold Mr Bs complaint about this loan.
For loan 4, Mr Bs outgoings have been recorded as being £285 leaving £140 per week in
disposable income to afford the weekly repayment of £25. However, by loan 4, I no longer
think it was reasonable for Morses to have solely relied on the information that Mr B had
provided.
I say this because Mr B was again borrowing the same amount over roughly the same
period. Indeed, even with the gaps in borrowing, Mr B had already been indebted to Morses
for around 20 months.
On top of this, while some of his weekly expenditure had increased  such as his rent and
utility payments, other aspects of his declared expenditure had dropped. For example, I dont
think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Mr B had declared for his weekly
food shop at only £10  this just doesnt seem likely or plausible.
So given the factors Ive mentioned above, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of
Mr Bs actual financial position to ensure the loan was affordable for him. This couldve been
done in several ways, such as asking for evidence of his outgoings, looking at bank
statements and/or collecting any other documentation Morses felt it needed to obtain in
order to have satisfied itself the loan was affordable for Mr B. This mightve helped verify
information provided and revealed whether there was any other information that Morses
mightve needed to consider about Mr Bs financial position.However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold loan 4, I have to be
satisfied that had Morses carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it
wouldve likely discovered that Mr B couldnt afford it, or Morses was given evidence
that indicated the loan was unsustainable in some other way.
Mr B (or his representative) hasnt provided a copy of his credit file, bank statements or any
other documentation covering the period leading up loan 4 being advanced. Without
anything further, I cant be sure what Morses may have seen had it carried out better checks.
So, I cant fairly uphold the complaint about the 4 either.
Im therefore intending not to uphold Mr Bs complaint about loans 3 and 4.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new comments or submissions, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings which were reached in the provisional decision. I still think Morses carried 
out proportionate checks before loan 3 was granted  which demonstrated that Mr B would 
likely to be able to afford the repayments he was committed to making. 
However, in my view, Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks before loan 4 was 
granted. But as Mr B hasnt provided any other documentation about his circumstances at 
the time, I cant conclude Morses wouldve likely discovered the loan was unaffordable for 
him. So, like loan 3, I am also not upholding Mr Bs complaint about loan 4. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and for the reasons given in the provisional decision, 
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman