DRN-3926578
The complaint
Mr J complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plcs (D&G) refusal to cover a 
magnetic filter under his boiler insurance. 
What happened
Mr J was originally sold a service care plan for his boiler by the manufacturer  who Ill refer 
to as company L. This care plan was with D&G which then moved to a boiler insurance 
policy. Mr J contacted D&G to arrange a service for his boiler and said he also wanted the 
magnetic filter to be cleaned but D&G explained this wasnt covered under his policy. Mr J 
believed the magnetic filter used to be covered under the care plan but has since been 
removed under the boiler insurance, so he complained. D&G responded and explained filters 
are classed as consumable/perishable items so arent covered under the terms and 
conditions of the policy.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr J. He thought D&G hadnt acted unfairly in not 
covering the filter. Mr J disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr J will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The dispute here relates to whether a magnetic filter clean should be covered under the 
policy. Mr J believes it should, and this was being done previously by company L during the 
annual service. D&G say the level of cover Mr J had with the service care plan was the same 
as he has under his boiler insurance  and neither covers the magnetic filter. So, Ive looked 
to see whether D&G have acted fairly in declining to cover the magnetic filter. 
My starting point is Mr Js boiler insurance policy. This sets out the terms and conditions and 
says the heating equipment covered by the policy includes the boiler and its controls. It goes 
further to say, Your heating equipment does not include: the system. The policy then 
defines system as equipment associated with the provision of central heating. D&G have 
provided information from company Ls website and this defines a magnetic filter as a 
device that collects debris build-up in a heating system. It goes further to describe what a 
magnetic filter does and says it will attract the corroded metals to stop them from building 
up. and allows water to continue flowing through the system as normal 
So, taking this into account, I dont think D&G have acted unfairly in declining to cover the 
magnetic filter. The terms and conditions make it clear the policy doesnt cover equipment 
associated with the central heating system  and the manufacturer defines the magnetic 
filter as an item which helps to keep a central heating system working efficiently.  
Im further persuaded the magnetic filter isnt included as part of the annual service provided 
under the policy because Mr J confirms, in his complaint to our service, that when he 
experienced a problem with his heating system, company L insisted he install a magnetic 
filter  which he did at his own cost. Mr J also confirms this during his call to D&G. If the 
magnetic filter was covered by the policy  or was intended to be covered by the policy  
then I dont believe Mr J wouldve been asked to install this at his own cost.  
I note Mr J says, when company L were carrying out his annual service, they did clean the 
magnetic filter. Ive listened to a call D&G made to company L to query whether theyd been 
cleaning the magnetic filter during the annual service. Company L confirm the magnetic filter 
isnt part of the internal boiler inspection as its an external filter. Company L explain all the 
serviced parts are within the boiler casing itself. I acknowledge Mr J says an engineer had 
previously removed the filter on the unit and cleaned it. I wish to reassure Mr J that Im not 
doubting his account of events but, even if this engineer had cleaned the filter, it doesnt 
mean D&G are required to do this in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Ive 
seen no evidence that either D&G or company L have confirmed to Mr J that his policy 
covers cleaning of the magnetic filter as part of the service.     
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman