DRN-3837604
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) accepted he was 
liable for a road traffic collision, when he felt the other driver was at fault.  And Haven said 
theyd charge him an additional £200 excess because he wanted the repairs done by his 
own garage. 
What happened
Mr S reversed out of a bay in a car park and came to a halt.  He was struck by another car.  
He says the other driver was at fault because she was using her phone and wasnt paying 
attention as she was driving through the car park.
Mr S reported the collision to Haven.  During his first call, he told Haven he didnt want to 
claim and would arrange to have the damage to his car repaired himself.  Haven recorded 
the fact hed notified them of the incident.
The other driver made a claim.  Haven accepted Mr S was liable for the collision because 
hed been reversing out of the parking bay.  Mr S wasnt happy about that decision and 
complained.  
Later that day, Mr S called Haven again and told them he wanted to make a claim for the 
damage to his car.  But he wanted to use his own garage, not Havens approved repairer.  
Haven told him he could do this. But they said hed need to pay an additional excess, they 
wouldnt provide a courtesy car and theyd only pay repair costs theyd approved.  Mr S said 
hed not been aware of these conditions and asked that be added to his complaint.
Haven investigated Mr Ss complaint and sent him their final response.  In relation to their 
decision on liability, they said that, as Mr S was reversing from a parking bay, he had the 
greater duty of care.  
In relation to the additional excess payable because Mr S wanted to use his own repairer, 
and the lack of a courtesy car, Haven said the information theyd given him was set out in his 
policy terms and schedule.  And they said the policy also confirmed they wouldnt pay for 
repairs theyd not authorised.  
In the same letter, Haven invited Mr S to submit a quote for them to consider.  
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Havens response and brought his complaint to us.  Our 
investigator reviewed it and concluded Haven didnt need to do any more to resolve it.  He 
was satisfied theyd investigated before concluding Mr S was liable for the collision  and 
that theyd advised Mr S about the additional £200 excess applicable if he wanted the 
repairs completed by his own garage.  The investigator also said it was reasonable for 
Haven not to pay his garages full repair costs, because theyd demonstrated the repairs 
could be completed at a far lower cost.   
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ill start by explaining its not my role to decide who was responsible for the collision.  So, 
while I understand Mr S feels strongly that the other driver was at fault, I cant say thats the 
conclusion Haven should come to.  But I can decide whether or not that decision was 
reasonable, based on the evidence available.
Mr S was reversing out of a parking bay, into the path of the other driver.  Haven say this 
means he had a greater duty of care than the other driver.  I think thats reasonable.
Mr S told them the other driver was using their phone so wasnt paying attention.  Haven 
asked him if there was any evidence of this  for example, CCTV images, dashcam footage 
or a witness to confirm what he said.  Mr S couldnt provide anything.  So, while I dont doubt 
what Mr S has said, Im satisfied that Haven investigated the circumstances of the collision 
before reaching a conclusion on liability.  And Im satisfied that conclusion was a reasonable 
one, based on the evidence they reviewed.
To consider the other complaints Mr S has made, Ive looked at his policy documents.  The 
policy schedule states (under the heading Approved repairers):
If you decide not to use one of our approved repairers, then an additional excess of £200 
will be applicable.  This excess is in addition to any other excesses under your policy.
I think that statements clear.  It reflects the content of the policy (paragraph 7 of section B2) 
which says:
You may use another repairer providing We agree for the work to be carried out. If You 
do not wish to use Our approved repairers an additional Excess will apply.
And its consistent with what Haven told Mr S when he asked them about getting his car 
repaired at a garage of his choice.  So Im satisfied Haven have acted fairly here.
And Im satisfied they acted fairly when they told Mr S they wouldnt provide a courtesy car if 
he didnt have the car repaired by their approved repairer.  Paragraph 8 of section B2 of the 
policy says:
At Your request, We can sub-contract the repair work that We are to carry out to a repairer 
of Your choice, but this may lead to delays in arranging the repairs. We do not provide a 
Courtesy Car if You request that We sub-contract the repair work that We are to carry out to 
a repairer of Your choice, even if the Courtesy Car is shown in Your Schedule.
Again, I think thats clear and that Haven advised Mr S this term would apply if repairs were 
done by the garage of his choice.  So they dont need to do any more in relation to this 
element of the complaint.
Finally, Ive thought about the cost of repairs.  Again, Haven have applied a policy term 
which says:
We will not accept responsibility for the cost of repairs or replacements which are not 
authorised in advance by Us.
And theyve said the quote for repairs supplied by Mr S is too high.  Mr S has provided a quote for work totalling £5,449.85.  Haven say the repairs can be 
completed for £1,489.91.  Their engineers report indicates the car had been assessed as a 
total loss after a previous accident, and that there were a number of issues with earlier 
repairs which werent due to the collision Mr S wanted to claim for.
Mr S told our investigator he didnt know the cars previous history.  Ive got no reason to 
doubt that.  But I cant say Haven should cover the cost of everything that needs attention on 
the car.  They only have to deal with the damage caused when Mr S reversed out of the 
parking bay.  And they only need to pay Mr S what it would cost them to get that damage 
repaired.
Im satisfied by the report from Havens engineer that they can have the repairs done for 
£1,489.91.  Haven have confirmed theyve offered Mr S that sum, but hes declined it.  If he 
now wishes to accept it, Id expect Haven to pay it to him.  
Or, if Mr S now wants Haven to deal with repairing the accident damage, Id expect them 
(subject to the payment of any outstanding excess) to arrange for the repairs their engineer 
says are accident related.  But I dont think they need to do anything else to resolve Mr Ss 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint about Haven Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman