DRN-4034673
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Society of Lloyds (SoL) have handled a claim he made 
under his Premier Guarantee New Home Warranty (the warranty).
What happened
Mr S is the owner of an apartment in a building comprised of 16 apartments which were 
completed in 2009/2010 (the building). Mr S is represented in his complaint by Mr P. Mr P is 
also an owner of one of the apartments in the building and is representing the remaining 
owners who have separate, but the same complaints with our service. Because the 
complaints are about the same claim decision made by SoL, I issued a provisional decision 
on the complaint brought by Mr P and explained that my findings in that provisional decision 
would apply to the complaints brought by the other leaseholders.
I issued my provisional decision on 10 February 2023, explaining why I was intending to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint, and by extension, Mr S complaint. Heres what I said in my 
provisional decision: 
What happened
Mr P and SoL are represented in this complaint by a number of different 
professionals. However, for ease of reference I will refer to Mr Ps professionals as N, 
and SoLs professionals as A. SoL is responsible for all of the acts or omissions by 
the professionals acting as its agent.
Mr P is the owner of an apartment in a building comprised of 16 apartments which 
were completed in 2009/2010 (the building). In addition to bringing his own complaint 
to this service, Mr P represents the other owners in the building who have separate, 
but the same complaints with our service. Because the complaints are about the 
same claim decision, Mr P and the other leaseholders are aware that what I say 
here, in respect of Mr Ps complaint, will apply to the same complaints brought by the 
other leaseholders who are represented by Mr P.
In 2014, Mr P and the other leaseholders noticed damage in some apartments 
caused by an ingress of water. SoL accepted the warranty claim for areas where 
damage had occurred, but didnt agree to undertake works to the building, where no 
material damage had been observed. SoLs agent at that time, who Ill refer to as M, 
dealt with the claim and applied one collective excess.
In late 2018, Mr P and the other leaseholders noticed an ingress of water into 
Apartments 5, 6, 10 and 16 within the building and made a claim on the warranty for 
the resulting damage. SoLs agent acknowledged the claim and agreed that the 
damage had resulted from defects in common areas of the building.
After investigating the claim, SoL offered Mr P and the other leaseholders a cash 
settlement to discharge its liability under the warranty and settle the claim. However, 
the proposed settlement wasnt accepted. Mr P complained to SoL about the way the 
claim had been handled, and also about the way it had interpreted the policy terms to 
arrive at the net settlement offer of approximately £8,000. Mr P said the scope of 
works that SoL based its offer on was incomplete, and he disagreed with SoLs 
application of five separate excesses to the claim.
Mr P complained to SoL about its claim decision and received SoLs second stage 
response to his complaint on 27 August 2021. In that response SoL said that, having 
carried out an extensive review of the complaint files, it found no fault on the part of 
the underwriters in the decisions theyd made or the proposals theyd put forward.
Unhappy with SoLs response, Mr P brought his complaint (and those of the other 
leaseholders) to this service in early 2022. Our investigator considered all the issues 
Mr P had raised and issued his view partially upholding the complaint in October 
2022.
Mr P accepted all but two of the conclusions in our investigators view. In particular, 
he didnt agree with our investigators conclusion that SoLs settlement offer didnt 
need to cover costs relating to the installation of cavity trays for the parapet walls. He 
also didnt agree it was reasonable to omit the removal and refitting of the glazed 
balustrade from the scope of works, on the basis that it is a major cost item the 
leaseholders are required to pay because of regulation requirements. Mr P 
expressed the view that SoL declined the opportunity to find an alternative contractor 
to carry out the repairs because they were aware that no contractor could carry out 
the repairs based on SoLs estimate or method of working.
SoL didnt accept our investigators view on the application of multiple excesses to 
the claim. However, it did accept the other conclusions he reached. 
As the parties havent agreed on how Mr Ps complaint ought to be resolved, the 
matter has been passed to me for a decision to be made.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making my provisional decision, Ive first considered whether SoL has fairly 
applied the policy terms relating to the application of excesses to the settlement offer. 
The second issue Ive considered is whether SoL has made a fair offer to Mr P and 
the leaseholders to settle the claim. While I havent addressed each and every point 
raised by the parties, I have considered all of their evidence and submissions in 
making my provisional decision on this complaint.
What is covered by the warranty?
Mr Ps warranty is divided into different sections of cover which apply to different 
circumstances and different periods of the term of the warranty. Mr Ps claim (and 
that of the other leaseholders) for damage to the building has been accepted by SoL. 
However, Ive detailed the relevant terms and definitions below, for ease of 
reference, as I will refer to these terms in the remainder of this decision.
Section 3.3 Structural Insurance, is relevant to Mr Ps complaint as the claim was 
made during years three to ten of the warranty. 
Section 3.3 states that SoL will indemnify Mr P, the Policyholder, against all claims 
discovered and notified to SoL during the Structural Insurance Period in respect of the cost of complete or partial rebuilding or rectifying work to the Housing Unit which 
has been affected by Major Damage.. 
It goes on to say that in the event of a claim under this section, the Underwriter has 
the option either of paying the cost of repairing, replacing or rectifying any damage 
referred to in section 3.3 (1) and (2), or itself arranging to have the damage 
corrected.
The warranty defines Major Damage as:
a) Destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit  
b) A condition requiring immediate remedial action to prevent actual destruction of or 
physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit  
In either case caused by a defect in the design, workmanship, materials or 
components of: the Structure; or the waterproofing elements of the Waterproof 
Envelope 
The Waterproof Envelope is defined as: the basement, ground floors, external 
walls, roofs, skylights, windows and doors of a Housing Unit.
Housing Unit is defined as (among other things): The property described in the 
Certificate of Insurance comprising the Structure, all non-load bearing elements and 
fixtures and fittings for which the Policyholder is responsible; and any Common Parts 
retaining or boundary walls forming part of or providing support to the Structure.
The Common Parts are defined as: Those parts of a multi-ownership building (of 
which each Housing Unit is part), for a common or general use, for which the 
Policyholder has joint ownership and/or legal responsibility.
The Structure of the Housing Unit is described as being comprised of the following 
elements (among others):
load-bearing parts of ceilings, floors, staircases and associated guard rails, 
walls and
roofs, together with load bearing retaining walls necessary for stability;
non-load bearing partition walls;
roof covering;
any external finishing surface (including rendering) necessary for the water-
tightness
of the external envelope;
floor decking and screeds, where these fail to support normal loads;
The warranty defines Excess in the following way: 
As noted on the Initial Certificate and Certificate of Insurance the Underwriter shall 
not be liable for the first part of any payment made in respect of a valid claim under 
the Policy for a Housing Unit. A separate Excess shall apply to each separately identifiable cause of loss or 
damage for which a payment is made under the Policy by the Underwriter, regardless 
of whether more than one cause of loss is notified at the same time.
However, its important to note that the warranty does not define what is meant by 
separately identifiable cause of loss or damage.
Paragraph 5 of the conditions set out in section 6 provides for an increase in the 
Excess as follows: 
The.Excess referred to within the Certificate of Insurance will be increased in 
line with the RICS House Re-Building Index or 10% per annum compound, 
whichever is the lesser, on each anniversary of the commencement of the period of 
insurance for Sections 3.3 
Lastly, the financial limits for claims involving common parts are set out in section 7 
of the warranty, which says:
 The maximum the Underwriter will pay for any claim relating to Common Parts will 
be the amount that the Policyholder has a legal liability to contribute towards the cost 
of repairs, rectification or rebuilding works. Claims are subject to the financial limits 
for the individual sections detailed above and the Excess as detailed in the Initial and 
Certificate of Insurance.
So, in summary, Mr Ps warranty covers him for damage to his apartment and his 
proportion of the cost of repair of damage to any common parts hes responsible for, 
if caused by a defect in the structure of the building or the waterproof envelope. 
Cover is subject to the cost of repairs exceeding the Excess. And a separate Excess 
can be applied for each separate cause of loss or damage, and/or for each 
leaseholder/policyholder who shares responsibility for the common parts  in the 
event of a common parts claim.
Has SoL fairly applied the Excess clauses to the claim?
The warranty provides that an excess may be applied to: each separately identifiable 
cause of loss or damage for which a payment is made under the Policy by the 
Underwriter.
The first point of disagreement between Mr P and SoL is in relation to how many 
causes of loss are relevant to the claim. Although cause isnt defined in the warranty 
terms, understanding what cause means, informs how many excesses ought 
reasonably to be applied to the claim, in line with the warranty terms and conditions.
Mr P believes only one excess ought to be applied, on the basis there is a single 
cause of damage, namely the failure of the waterproofing envelope of the building (or 
put more simply, a lack of weather-tightness).
However, SoL has applied five excesses to the claim, resulting in a settlement offer 
of approximately £8,000. The five separately indemnifiable causes of loss it has 
identified include:
1. Cavity Trays: Damage caused due to water ingress via open cavities in the 
external elevations. No cavity trays were fitted which had allowed water to 
pass freely from the point on entry at Apartment 16 into Apartment 6, via the 
open cavity of Apartment 10 (with repairs totaling £10,906.50 excluding VAT, 
in SoLs scope of works (SOW)).(Note: for ease of reference and for clarity all amounts referred to in this decision are exclusive of VAT, unless otherwise 
stated).
2. Defective membranes to balconies: Further defects caused water to enter into 
apartments, being poorly installed / missing membranes on the balcony 
surfaces of Apartments 16, 10 and 6, located under the raised patio slabs 
(with repairs totaling £23,424.50 in SoLs SOW).
3. Rainwater discharge issues: The rainwater discharge system is poorly 
designed causing rainwater to back up on the patios of the apartments and 
enter the building via defects in the balcony membrane and surrounding 
upstands. The rainwater passes from Apartment 16s main roof and balcony 
via rainwater downpipes and onto the balcony of Apartment 10 below, then 
passes via the same method to the balcony of Apartment 6 below. All 
rainwater outlets that discharge the rainwater are undersized, blocked with 
shingle, debris, or sand deposits (with repairs totaling £4,108.50 in SoLs 
SOW). 
4. Glazed balustrade: Apartment 16 has a glazed balustrade located on its 
balcony over a low parapet wall that is set in between coping stones located 
over the cavity structure in the parapet wall. The glass screen is sealed with 
defective and inadequate silicone and there is no damp-proof course as a 
secondary defense against water ingress. Further, the parapet wall does not 
appear to have any internal cavity tray and water ingress passes through the 
open cavities of the parapet wall via the open cavity wall of Apartment 10 
below, and into the ceiling of Apartment 6 below (with repairs totaling 
£6,271.10 in SoLs SOW).
5. Render: The render elevations to the upper floor apartments are cracked, 
defective and show signs of water penetration, in a location that cavity trays 
should be installed. Due to the lack of any weep holes, SoLs engineer, A, 
suggests no cavity trays exist (with repairs totaling £9,625.00 in SoLs SOW). 
Our investigator concluded that the second, third and fourth causes of loss identified 
by A, all related to the balconies, and therefore comprised one identifiable cause of 
loss, namely, defects in the balconies leading to an ingress of water. Our investigator 
also concluded that the first and fifth causes of loss identified by A, all related to the 
external walls, and would comprise a second identifiable cause of loss, namely, 
defects in the external walls leading to an ingress of water.
The warranty covers physical damage to any portion of the building, caused by a 
defect in the design, workmanship, materials or components of the structure or the 
waterproofing elements of the Waterproof Envelope.
The two reports completed by A in January 2020 and June 2020, and the two reports 
completed by N in December 2018 and November 2019 provide details of the 
damage and defects, affecting the building. The content of these reports is 
particularly relevant when considering the question of how many separate causes of 
loss may have caused the damage.
In their first report, N observed from their inspection, that no cavity trays had been 
provided at various locations. They said that the cavity could be viewed from Apartment 6 at the lowest level, up into the cavity above Apartment 10, carrying on 
up through to the balcony of Apartment 16. N also said it appeared that rainwater 
was hitting either the glass screen to Apartment 16s balcony, or the blockwork, and 
the French door on the junction with Apartment 10s balcony. From there the water 
ran down the blockwork on the inside face of the cavity and discharged into 
Apartment 6s ceiling. 
N commented that the blockwork to Apartments 10 and 16 were provided with a 
rendered finish which was permeable so would allow for moisture ingress to pass to 
the inside fabric of the building. N also advised that a cavity tray should have been 
provided, which would ensure the moisture doesnt travel to the apartment below. 
N said that the balcony arrangement to Apartment 16 was provided with glazed 
balustrading and coping stones, but it was highly likely that there was no cavity tray 
provided at the top of the parapet wall, which was allowing water to emanate down 
through the glazed balustrading and coping stones into the cavity. N concluded that 
the lack of cavity trays at various floor and parapet levels was allowing water to pass 
down through the building, eventually coming down into the inside fabric of the 
building, affecting Apartment 6 internally. N recommended that cavity trays were 
fitted at two different levels, at Apartment 16s level, along the top of the parapet wall 
and at Apartment 10s level, along the line of the threshold to the bi-fold doors.
The supplementary report issued by N in November 2019 added that the parapet 
walls and glass balustrading that hadnt been completed at lower ground/ground floor 
level, first floor level and the end gable to Apartments 10 and 16 are all contributing 
to the current problems. The other issue highlighted by the supplementary report was 
the cold bridging on the underside of the concrete slabs to the balconies, and the 
absence of insulation that was causing interstitial condensation. N said the only way 
to fully resolve the problem would be to remove the lower ground floor ceilings, at 
least in the front sections where to step in the building occurs, to provide additional 
insulation to the underside of the concrete slab.
On As second inspection of the building, which was reported on in the June 2020 
report, A concluded that major defects had been found and the cause of water 
ingress appeared to be from the balconies whos original design and water flow had 
been incorrectly calculated and catered for. The outlets on the balconies were 
considered two small for the area and were all obstructed. The balcony base 
structure was missing a membrane and was inadequately sealed leading to water 
ingress into the recess below. Incorrect downpipes, gutters and waterflow detail and 
design of various balconies meant they were clogged and had inadequate outfall, 
resulting in water ingress. A recommended, for Apartments 16, 10 and 6, that the 
balcony floor be replaced and sealed using a membrane type product, tanked to all 
upstands. A also recommended the downpipes be extended and replaced, and the 
outlets enlarged for faster water flow incorporating leaf guards and debris prevention 
measures.  
A noted that Apartment 16 and Apartment 10s external render had cracked in many 
places and vegetation and green algae was observed to be growing from the gaps. A 
said that water penetration was evident with zero cavity weep holes, suggesting that 
cavity trays hadnt been installed. A recommended that the existing render system be 
removed and replaced and cavity trays be installed as required. 
In summary, both As and Ns reports confirmed damage has occurred, caused by 
defects in two portions of the Housing Unit. The portions in question are the 
balconies and walls, which are allowing water ingress into the apartments below. So, I think its reasonable to conclude there are two separately identifiable causes of loss, 
i.e. defective balconies and defective walls. Im therefore currently of the view that 
SoLs application of five excesses is unreasonable and results in an unfair application 
of the warranty terms to Mr Ps claim.
The purpose of a building warranty is to protect a homebuyer against significant 
repair costs due to construction issues. SoLs approach of applying an excess to 
each and every defective component within a recognised portion of the building 
effectively avoids, or significantly limits, its liability to provide cover for the cost of 
repair of the damage. SoLs approach effectively relieves it of its liability for the very 
circumstances that the warranty is intended to cover, causing it to be essentially 
worthless. Im currently not satisfied that SoLs approach is fair as it effectively moves 
the risk of having to pay significant sums to repair damage caused by construction 
defects, to homeowners, in circumstances where, such costs ought to be covered by 
the warranty.
In my view, and as previously communicated to SoL by my ombudsman colleagues 
in their final decisions in other cases similar to this, there is a more reasonable 
interpretation of the policy terms, which reflects the purpose of the warranty. And that 
is, where there are multiple defects in a recognisable portion of the building, which 
are contributing to a single type of damage, the defects ought to be grouped into one 
claim. Bearing in mind the purpose of the policy, Im satisfied its only reasonable to 
consider the separately identifiable causes of loss to be the defective portions, rather 
that the individual components that make up those portions. So, in Mr Ps case, the 
lack of cavity trays in the external walls and the damaged render ought to be grouped 
into one claim as they make a separately identifiable cause of damage, i.e. defective 
walls. And the defective waterproof membranes on the balconies, failed sealant 
around the glazed balustrade, and inadequate facilitation of rainwater discharge from 
the balconies, ought to be grouped into one claim as they make another separately 
identifiable cause of damage, i.e. defective balconies.
Having provisionally concluded that only two excesses (for each leaseholder) ought 
to be applied to the settlement offer, Ive next gone on to consider the offer SoL 
made to Mr P and the other leaseholders, to indemnify them for the cost of repair of 
the damage covered by each claim.
My role, the informality of this service, and considerations relevant to the available 
evidence 
Before I explain the decision Ive provisionally reached, I think it helpful if I first clarify 
a few preliminary matters which are relevant to the way Ive come to my decision. 
As the parties may be aware, the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal 
dispute resolution service, established under Part XVI of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 as a scheme under which certain disputes may be resolved 
quickly and with minimum formality by an independent person. As the independent 
person, its my role to resolve this dispute by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
SoL has had a significant period of time in which to assess and comment on the 
SOW provided by N on behalf of Mr P and the leaseholders (Ns SoW). However, the 
comments it provided to our investigator on that scope of work could be described as 
broad brush. The lack of detailed comment has made it more difficult for me to come 
to a provisional decision on this complaint that resolves the dispute between the 
parties. Given the time thats passed since the claim was first made and given the 
works that have been completed to mitigate further damage to the building, I dont think requiring a further investigation and scope of works would be productive in 
resolving this complaint. 
My role in resolving this complaint isnt to loss adjust the scopes of work that have 
been provided, however, I am responsible for resolving the dispute. I think that can 
most fairly be done by considering the elements of the scopes of work in dispute, 
taking account of the comments from their surveyors on the others scope of works, 
and then giving my reasoned view as to why I think particular items should, or should 
not, be included in SoLs cash settlement.
Is SoLs offer to settle the common parts claim fair in the circumstances?
SoLs SOW separated the total cost of £65,202.72 (including VAT), into five separate 
claims. The only claim that exceeded the common parts excess of £20,044.48 was in 
relation to defective waterproof membranes on the balconies, which was costed at 
£28,109.40 (including VAT). After deducting the common parts, or collective excess, 
SoL made Mr P and the leaseholders a Mr P, for the claim, of £8,064.92 (including 
VAT).
The leaseholders obtained two estimates for the repair works to the building and 
apartments. The first estimate was for £142,553 and the second was for 
£111,009.18. The leaseholders decided to proceed with the lower estimate, provided 
by the contractor who had carried out the repair works to other parts of the building in 
2014. The leaseholders had the balcony repair works carried out the first half of 
2021. The works relating to the installation of the cavity trays were due to be 
commissioned later in the year. The current status of the repair works hasnt currently 
been provided. 
Mr P explained that the scope of works the leaseholders decided to proceed with was 
provided by contractors whod made detailed visits to the property, whereas SoLs 
SOW was completed by a quantity surveyor who had never visited the site and had 
no detailed knowledge of the building or its location. Mr Ps surveyor explained that 
hed quantified the scope of works based on his previous experience of the site and 
working in the area for the last thirty years. He believed the scope hed provided was 
required to resolve the current issues with the building. SoLs surveyor said their 
SOW was based on tender returns from previous repairs so were proven to be 
market rates.
Given the significant difference in costs between the two scopes of work, our 
investigator requested comments from the parties surveyors to try and elicit what 
contributed to such a large divergence. After considering their responses, our 
investigator concluded that SoL only needed to cover the items included in its SOW, 
but the cost of those items needed to be based on the costs included in the lower 
quotation provided by Mr P and the leaseholders.
While that approach can be helpful in some cases, I dont think it serves to facilitate a 
fair and final resolution of this complaint, because in this case, the scopes of works 
arent easily comparable. Also, there are some items that I think have been omitted 
from SoLs SOW, which should be included in the cash settlement.
In deciding whether SoLs settlement offer is fair and reasonable, Ive considered the 
scopes of works, and the parties surveyors comments on the scopes of work. 
Having done so, Ive identified a number of significant items of repair that have been 
omitted from SoLs SOW. Where the evidence is inconsistent, inconclusive or contradictory, I make my decision based on the balance of probabilities  i.e. what I 
think more likely than not, is the case. 
Ive first considered the works included in the SOWs which relate to claim 1: installing 
cavity trays in the external walls and repairing the render. Ive then gone on to 
consider the works included in the SOWs which relate to claim 2: balcony membrane, 
sealing of glass balustrade, installing cavity trays in parapet walls, defective 
discharge of water from the balconies. As the water ingress from the balconies is the 
larger cause of damage, Ive also considered the inclusion of repair costs for internal 
repair and redecoration of the affected apartments under claim 2. Lastly, Ive 
considered the inclusion of costs for provisional or contingency items.
Claim 1: Installation of cavity trays in external walls and repair of render 
SoLs SOW allowed £10,906.50 for the works required to install cavity trays in the 
external walls. No comments have been made on this by either party, so I dont need 
to make a finding on this item of repair. 
However, the parties havent agreed on the costs that should fairly be included in 
SoLs cash settlement for the external render.
In As June 2020 report, it was observed that the external render had cracked in 
many places and water penetration was evident, suggesting that no cavity trays had 
been installed. It was stated that the existing system would need to be removed and 
replaced, installing cavity trays as required.
In response to a question about this, SoLs loss adjuster advised our investigator that 
it wouldnt be possible to install cavity trays without opening the blockwork which 
would effectively remove the render in those areas. 
Mr Ps surveyor explained that the render allowed for in Ns SOW was to completely 
re- render the panels as the leaseholders didnt want scars on the panels, which 
seemed reasonable given the value of the apartments. In Ns report it was recorded 
that it would be difficult to patch repair the areas of render, following installation of 
cavity trays. N said that it would be more aesthetically pleasing to undertake a 
complete repair to the front face of the block work, to appease the otherwise 
aesthetic difference between the two types of render finish which would be clearly 
visible externally. In As June 2020 report, they also commented in relation to 
Apartments 10 and 16 that the existing render system will need to be removed and 
replaced, suggesting that a patch repair wouldnt provide an adequate repair.
However, SoLs surveyor commented that rendering the whole surface would amount 
to betterment. Theyve said that Ns SOW allowed for 56sqm of render to be 
replaced, however, only 25sqm of render is required to be replaced, as the only area 
of render damaged by the defect is that on Apartment 10 where an additional cavity 
tray is being installed above the French doors.
I dont agree with SoL that rendering complete panels amounts to betterment. The 
purpose of the warranty is to provide an indemnity to the leaseholders for the 
damage covered. Having considered the comments included in both As and Ns 
reports regarding the repair of the render and having considered Mr Ps surveyors 
comments on this point, I dont consider that carrying out patch repairs to the render 
would provide that indemnity. Im therefore of the view that SoLs cash settlement 
should include the cost of replacing the 56sqm of render, not just the 25sqm deemed 
reasonable by its surveyor. In Ns SOW the 56sqm of render was allocated a cost of £5,320. This constitutes 
31sqm more than SoLs surveyor thought should be covered. So, Im currently of the 
view that SoLs cash settlement, in relation to the render, should be increased by 
£2,945 (31/56 x £5,320). When the additional costs for the render, and VAT are 
added to the two amounts allocated by SOL to this claim, the total comes to 
approximately £28,000 which exceeds the common parts excess of £20,044.48. 
Claim 2: Balcony membrane, glass balustrade, installation of cavity trays in parapet 
walls and defective discharge of rainwater from balconies.
There are seven elements of the SOWs that are in dispute, regarding the repairs to 
the balconies. Ive addressed them under the following headings: 1. Preliminaries, 2. 
Installation of cavity trays in parapet walls, 3. Removal and refitting of the glazed 
balustrade, 4. ACO drainage channels, 5. Discharge of water from balconies, 6. 
Internal repairs and redecoration, and 7. Additional sums. 
1. Preliminaries
SoLs surveyor said they felt the preliminaries (at £14,908.00) included in Ns SOW to 
be approximately twice what would be expected on works of this scale, and they 
didnt consider a fully covered scaffold necessary to carry out the proposed works. In 
response, Mr Ps surveyor explained that the fully covered scaffold was necessary 
due to the exposed location of the building. 
Ns SOW included £7,500 for covered scaffolding. Given that the location of the 
damaged portion of the property is sea-facing and given the contactors obligation to 
protect the building whilst carrying out the repair works, I think allowing for covered 
scaffolding is fair in the circumstances. SoL havent provided any other specific 
comment on the items included in the preliminaries. 
2. Installation of cavity trays in parapet walls
The first point Mr P raised in response to our investigators view was in relation to the 
parapet walls, cavity trays. Mr P believes the costs of installing cavity trays in the 
parapet walls, which is an industry recognised standard, recognised by Premier 
Guarantee, should be included in the settlement offer. His surveyor has explained 
that the alternative repair proposal put forward by A doesnt meet the industry 
recognised standard, and in this exposed location in which the building has been 
constructed, cavity trays are required to prevent water ingress into the internal fabric 
of the building.
Page three of the warranty terms and conditions, under the heading, The Quality of 
Your Housing Unit: says:
The Developer has been issued with Premier Guarantees Technical Manual. This 
sets out the functional requirements the Developer and/or the Builder has to comply 
with when constructing a Housing Unit.
In the definition section of the warranty terms, Defect is described as:
 A failure to comply with a functional requirement in the Technical Manual in respect 
of the construction of the Housing Unit. Failure to follow the performance standards 
or guidance supporting the functional requirements does not in itself amount to a Defect, as it may be possible to achieve the recommended performance in other 
ways.
A proposed an alternative repair, in SoLs SOW for the 2019 claim, to installing cavity 
trays in the parapet walls, as is permitted by the warranty term quoted above. A 
specified that the balcony waterproof membrane was to be terminated into the inner 
skin of the parapet wall and a lead cover flashing was to be installed over the top to 
protect the membrane.
However, Mr Ps surveyor recommended the installation of cavity trays to achieve a 
lasting repair. He noted that repair had been agreed by SoL when settling the 2014 
claim and had achieved a lasting repair.
The standards relevant to the installation of cavity trays are included in: Chapter 7: 
Superstructure (External) of version 9 of the Premier Guarantee Technical Manual 
(which is relevant to the construction of this building). Chapter 7 says a cavity tray 
should be used, especially where the balcony above forms part of the roof below 
(see paragraph 7.1.16), which is the case with this building.
The affected area of the building in question is to the rear of the property, which has 
a series of stacked, but offset terraces serving the residential apartments. The 
terraces form the roofs of the apartments below. The terraces are guarded by a 
glazed balustrade system, secured in a steel shoe. As the balconies form part of the 
roof below in this building, paragraph 7.1.16 is particularly relevant to the question of 
whether it would be reasonable to include the cost of installing cavity trays in the 
parapet walls, in the cash settlement.
In addition, the location of the building is also a relevant consideration. In As reports 
it is recorded that the development is located on an elevated sea facing clifftop. All of 
the main habitable areas are sea facing with external balconies which are partially 
enclosed by stone walling and glazed screens overlooking the beach.
Taking these factors into account, Im currently of the view that its reasonable to 
include the cost of the installation of cavity trays in the parapet walls, in the cash 
settlement.
3. Removal and refitting of the glazed balustrade
The second point Mr P made in response to our investigators view was regarding the 
removal of the existing glass and stainless-steel balustrade. Mr P says that 
adherence by any contractor to the Construction (Design and Management) 
Regulations 2015 (CDM regulations) would require the balustrade to be removed 
while the works are carried out, and refitted. Mr P said that as it is a major cost item 
they are forced to pay because of regulation requirements, it should be included in 
the settlement offer. SoL disagrees.
I note that the schedule of works prepared for SoL, dated March 2014, did allow for 
the careful removal of the existing glass and stainless steel balustrade in existing 
channel set into the head of the wall and dressed coping stones; all to be set aside in 
a safe and secure store for re-use (page 3 section 3).
Ive also considered the CDM Regulations when coming to my provisional conclusion 
on this element of the settlement offer. Regulation 19 requires all practical steps to 
be taken, where necessary to prevent danger to any person, to ensure that any new or existing structure does not collapse if, due to the carrying out of construction work 
it may become unstable, or is in a temporary state or weakness or instability.
Paragraph 3.3.1 of SoLs SOW says: 
c. the Contractor shall remove the internal and external concrete parapet coping 
stones either side of the glass balustrade and carefully store for reinstatement.
Paragraph 3.7 Health & Safety says: 
a. The Principal Contractor shall comply with all enactments, regulations, and 
working rules relating to the safety, health and welfare of work people and other 
persons authorised to be on site.
SoLs SOW doesnt provide for the removal of the glazed balustrade. Instead, A had 
specified that the defect to the glazed balustrade could be repaired by leaving the 
glazing in place then applying waterproof membranes up to and under the stone 
copings.
SoLs surveyor commented that the removal and re-fitting of the glazed balustrade, 
along with a provisional sum to replace the glazing, increased the costs by 
£16,078.00.
Taking the above points into account in respect of the accepted safety requirements, 
Im currently of the view that its reasonable to include the costs relating to the 
removal and reinstatement of the glazed balustrade in the cash settlement.
4. ACO drainage channels
SoLs surveyor said that SoLs SOW was drawn up to remove the requirement for 
ACO drainage channels on the affected balconies. He said that would be achieved 
by using plastic pedestals on which the paving slabs are fitted, to allow rainwater to 
flow under the slabs and out of the outlets. 
SoLs surveyor also explained that A had chosen to not use ACO drainage channels 
in SoLs SOW as they would bring water up on top of the paving slabs and closer to 
the underside of the door frame, potentially allowing water ingress under the door 
frame. A was also of the view that as the slabs would be laid on a sand and cement 
screed that would clog the drainage. They felt that Ns SOW, in this respect, 
amounted to betterment. 
However, Mr Ps surveyor said the new ACO channels would ensure that the surface 
water was taken directly to the outlet, and not left sitting on the top of the balcony 
deck. He said that was good practice in that geographical area. Mr Ps surveyor 
explained the arrangement proposed by A is currently in situ and is not working 
effectively due to its location and wind driven sand blocking the underside of the 
slabs.
SoLs surveyor said the installation of ACO drainage channels increased the 
proposed repair costs by £1,195. 
Taking account of the evidence of Mr Ps and SoLs experts, Im currently of the view 
that the proposed repair recommended by Mr Ps surveyor is, on balance, more 
reasonable. So, Im intending to require SoL to cover the cost of installing ACO 
drainage channels in the cash settlement in order to deliver a lasting and effective 
repair.5. Discharge of water from balconies
SoLs surveyor commented that costs for works to increase the drainage discharge 
from the balconies had been omitted from Ns SOW. A specified that the drainage 
outlets needed to be increased in size to allow the greater flow of water off the 
balconies. Paragraph 6.3 of SoLs SOW appears to address this issue, allowing 
£1,450 for new, wider through-wall outlets, rainwater downpipes, and hopper system. 
N said that if it was agreed that this needed to be done, then an appropriate sum 
needed to be agreed. As SoLs surveyor has confirmed this work needs to be done, 
to complete an effective repair, then the related costs need to be included in the cash 
settlement. As A had made provision for £1,450 in SoLs SOW to cover this, Im 
currently of the view that this amount should be included in SoLs cash settlement.
6. Internal repairs and redecoration
Mr Ps surveyor said that the redecoration of the internal parts of the building, in the 
affected apartments, was due to the external defects and shouldnt be treated as a 
separate claim. However, SoLs surveyor said that the internal repairs and 
redecoration for the three affected apartments would need to be the subject of 
independent claims from each apartment owner, subject to their own excess. Those 
works were calculated to amount to £8,638.14. 
Having considered the arguments on this point, I dont agree that the owners of the 
three affected apartments need to make additional claims, which would be subject to 
additional excesses. The damage to the inside of the apartments was caused directly 
by the defect which caused major damage to the common parts. So, I agree with Mr 
Ps surveyor, that the internal repairs and redecoration should form part of this claim. 
Im therefore currently of the view that the cash settlement should include the 
£8,638.14 allowed for in Ns SOW for the internal repairs and redecoration.
7. Additional sums
Ive next considered the additional sums highlighted by SoLs surveyor. These 
included contractors overheads and profits (OH&P) in relation to the glazed 
balustrade and stone copings of £650, and a contractors mark up (or profit) of 
£8,991.02. SoLs surveyor objected to these costs being included in Ns SOW. 
However, Mr Ps surveyor explained that the costs that have been put forward are a 
result of two separate pricing exercises and these are at the current market level. He 
said that in the current buoyant market, it is difficult to obtain quotes as all the 
contractors are busy and choosing which projects to price. Having considered the 
arguments on this point, I find Mr Ps surveyors comments persuasive, and I think it 
reasonable to include these costs in the cash settlement.
Provisional sums included in Ns SOW
The SOW prepared for the leaseholders also included a contingency of £5,825, a 
provisional sum of £7,650.00 and a sum of £2,100 in case any existing cavity trays 
need to be removed. In arguing for these costs to be included in the cash settlement, 
Mr Ps surveyor said that not allowing for any contingency or provisional sums is 
dangerous and not recognised as good industry practice. SoLs surveyor didnt 
dispute this and commented that contingency was to be negotiated and was not part 
of As costings.Given the approach SoL have taken in considering Mr Ps claim, and given the 
ongoing damage that was being caused to the building by the defects, I think it was 
entirely reasonable for the leaseholders to proceed with the lower estimate, in 
carrying out repairs to the building. I also think its reasonable to make provision for 
works necessary to repair the damage, which arent able to be quantified at the 
outset (such as the removal of any existing cavity trays). However, Im not able to 
make an award in relation to costs that remain unknown. So, with regard to the 
provisional sums referred to, once the works have been completed, Mr P should 
present the invoices to SoL, for an appropriate reimbursement to be made. If any 
final provisional costs are disputed by SoL, then Mr P and the leaseholders can 
make a second complaint about that, and if necessary, refer it to this service. 
How should the leaseholders claims be moved forward?
While this decision has been made in respect of Mr Ps complaint, and his proportion 
of legal responsibility for the common parts, SoL and the other leaseholders 
understand that my decision applies to the complaints of the other leaseholders, as 
they arise from the same claim decision.
For each of the two common parts claims, Mr P and the other leaseholders can only 
claim for their share of the repair costs. To determine each leaseholders share of 
responsibility for the common parts, SoL will need to consider the lease agreement.
I understand from the submissions that the applicable excess for each of the 
leaseholders is, in respect of the apartment(s) they own. If so, and if responsibility for 
the common parts is shared equally among those 16 apartments, for the claim to 
succeed its value would need to exceed the collective excess of £20,044.48, that is, 
16 x £1,252.78. As Ive explained above, Im satisfied that claim 1: walls, and claim 2: 
balconies both exceed the collective excess. 
I think the leaseholders decision to proceed with carrying out the repair works, in 
light of the ongoing and worsening damage to the building, and in view of the 
unreasonable approach SoL was taking in seeking to apply five excesses to the 
claim, was reasonable in the circumstances. Having considered the two SOWs and 
the parties surveyors comments on the SOWs as detailed above, Im currently of the 
view that SoLs SOW has omitted significant repair costs in relation to the following: 
Full repair of the render
Preliminary items such as the covered scaffolding
Removal and reinstatement of the glazed balustrade
ACO drainage channels
Internal repairs and decorations
Additional sums
In addition, I think the cost of remediating the discharge of water from the balconies 
also ought to be included in the cash settlement.
However, the provisional sums shouldnt be included in the cash settlement at this 
stage. Once the actual sums have been established, Mr P can present the invoices 
to SoL and at that time, that part of the claim can be settled.Im therefore intending to uphold this complaint and require SoL to settle the claim by 
paying the amount detailed in Ns SOW, subject to the deductions and additions set 
out below.
I concluded by saying that SoL should pay Mr P and the leaseholders a settlement amount 
of £76,172.06.
I explained that some of the repairs have already been completed. So, where the 
leaseholders have already paid for repairs (either directly or via a service charge), I said SoL 
will need to pay 8% simple interest per annum on that part of the settlement, from the date 
the leaseholders paid for their share of the repairs, to the date that the awards in this final 
decision are paid. 
I said that I had reached my provisional conclusion on what the fairest settlement is, based 
on the limited information I have available, which I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.
I invited Mr P and SoL to provide any final comments or information they would like me to 
consider, before issuing my final decision on the complaint. Both parties provided additional 
submissions. The submissions provided by Mr P were made on behalf of himself, Mr S and 
the other leaseholders whom he represents.
Mr P said that he and the other leaseholders have been pursuing a fair and equitable 
settlement of their claim for a period now approaching four years. He explained that having 
to deal with the costs of the necessary repairs during that period has led to various 
challenges for the leaseholders, and during that time costs for building repair and 
construction have increased dramatically. As a result, there are additional points he would 
like to make, but as he and the other leaseholders are worn down by the process, they are of 
a mind to accept the provisional decision without reservation. However, that would only be 
on the basis that SoL doesnt dispute or challenge any aspect of the provisional decision 
with a view to mitigating the proposed settlement amount.
SoL provided a detailed response, from the underwriters, in response to the provisional 
decision. However, rather than setting out their arguments in this background section, I will 
refer to them in the next part of this decision, when giving reasons for my final decision on 
this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While SoL have made detailed submissions, on behalf of the underwriters, in response to 
the provisional decision, they havent caused me to change my conclusions on this 
complaint, as I will explain. Therefore, while I understand the frustration expressed by Mr P, 
on behalf of Mr S and the other leaseholders, as SoLs comments havent mitigated the 
settlement amount, I consider it appropriate to proceed to now issue my final decision on this 
complaint. 
SoL strongly disagreed with the findings reached in my provisional decision. They have 
commented that the provisional decision does not correctly take into account the law that 
applies to the interpretation of the excess provision in the policy. However, they have not 
explained which piece of legislation they think I have failed to consider. In any event, while I 
have considered all of the relevant information relating to this complaint, I am making my 
decision based on what I consider is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. And having done so, I remain of the view that the way SoL have applied the excess 
provision in the policy, to the leaseholders claim, creates an unfair outcome for them.
SoL say they are concerned by my comments that by correctly applying policy excesses to a 
shared common part liability it has rendered this policy essentially worthless. They say that 
they appreciate a policyholder may be unhappy about the excesses and limits that apply, 
because they make the settlement amount smaller and will not cover the total loss. However, 
SoL believes the policy terms clearly set out the excess provision and say that, as is obvious 
from the settlement sum offered, the payment of excesses doesnt render the policy 
worthless. 
I have considered SoLs comments, but I remain of the view that their application of five 
excesses to the claim is unfair. By applying an unreasonable number of excesses to the 
claim, they have reduced the settlement offer from a sum in excess of £140,000 to 
approximately £8,000. Clearly, that is not a worthless sum, as it is £8,000. However, in my 
provisional decision, I referred to it being essentially worthless, which I maintain is the case, 
given that the indemnity it provides for repair works that it purports to cover, equates to 
approximately 5% of the cost to the leaseholders of those repairs. 
SoL also considers that I have taken the wrong approach to the interpretation of the wording 
of the policy, by conflating item of claim with cause of loss or damage and by considering it 
in the context of section 3.2 of the policy which is not applicable, as the claim falls under 
section 3.3 of the policy. They point out that the excess wording in the policy expressly 
contemplates there may be more than one excess applied. SoL also say that I have mis-
applied the case of Zagora Management Property Limited & Others v Zurich Insurance Plc 
and others [2019] EWHC 140 (TCC) (the Zurich case) to the policy wording and 
circumstances relevant to the present case, which are quite different.
First, I have neither referred to item of claim nor the Zurich case in my provisional decision. 
SoL may be referring to comments made by my colleagues in the two previous final 
decisions that have been issued by this service, explaining why SoLs approach in applying 
multiple excesses is unfair and unreasonable. As per my ombudsman colleagues previous 
decisions, and my provisional decision, our approach is based on what we consider to be fair 
and reasonable, not necessarily the Zurich case.
Second, I explained in the provisional decision that as the claim was made in years 3 to 10 
of the policy, it is section 3.3 that applies, not section 3.2. While I did refer to the Premier 
Guarantee Technical Manual when commenting on SoLs surveyors views regarding the 
installation of cavity trays, that was intended to be indicative of the standards applicable at 
the time of construction. It was not intended to imply that the claim ought to have been 
considered under section 3.2. 
Third, I did not say in the provisional decision that only one excess could apply. I explained 
that a reasonable application of the excess clause would, in this case, lead to two excesses 
being applied to the claim.
SoL says that as the excess provision refers to a separately identifiable cause these clear 
and concise words give rise to an excess for each separately identifiable defect that 
materially contributes to the need for the remedial work. And on the basis of the independent 
expert technical evidence, SoL maintains there are five separately identifiable proximate 
causes of loss, so the application of five excesses under the policy to the claim is therefore 
fair and reasonable.
I gave detailed reasons in the provisional decision for why I disagree with SoLs submissions 
on this point. A repetition of their original arguments has not caused me to come to a different conclusion. As I explained in the provisional decision, both the leaseholders and 
SoLs surveyors confirmed that damage has occurred, caused by defects in two portions of 
the Housing Unit. The portions in question are the balconies and walls, which are allowing 
water ingress into the apartments below. So, I think it is reasonable to conclude there are 
two separately identifiable causes of loss, i.e. defective balconies and defective walls. 
Therefore, only two excesses should be applied to the claim.
I went on to say that in my view, and as previously communicated to SoL by my ombudsman 
colleagues in their final decisions in other cases similar to this, there is a more reasonable 
interpretation of the policy terms, which reflects the purpose of the warranty. And that is, 
where there are multiple defects in a recognisable portion of the building, which are 
contributing to a single type of damage, the defects ought to be grouped into one claim. 
Bearing in mind the purpose of the policy, I am satisfied it is only reasonable to consider the 
separately identifiable causes of loss to be the defective portions, rather that the individual 
components that make up those portions. So, in this case, the lack of cavity trays in the 
external walls and the damaged render ought to be grouped into one claim as they make a 
separately identifiable cause of damage, i.e. defective walls. And the defective waterproof 
membranes on the balconies, failed sealant around the glazed balustrade, and inadequate 
facilitation of rainwater discharge from the balconies, ought to be grouped into one claim as 
they make another separately identifiable cause of damage, i.e. defective balconies.
As I remain of the view that only two excesses (for each leaseholder) ought to be applied to 
the settlement offer, I have next gone on to consider SoLs comments in relation to my 
provisional conclusions on the offer SoL made to Mr S and the other leaseholders, to 
indemnify them for the cost of repair of the damage covered by each claim.
SoL have provided a seven-page letter from their surveyors in response to my findings 
regarding the settlement offer which I have also considered.
I note that this claim has been ongoing for approximately four years, so there has been 
ample opportunity for SoL to obtain advice from their experts and make a fair offer to settle 
this claim, before now. Having reviewed the submissions from SoLs surveyors, A, I dont 
consider they provide any further clarity on the points in dispute. Rather, A has provided 
comments, based on their interpretation of the policy terms, which support SoLs attempt to 
apply five excesses to this claim. But Ive already explained why I do not agree with SoLs 
arguments on the application of the excess clause. And while A has gone into some detail to 
explain why they support SoLs view on the excess clause, they have not persuaded me to 
come to a different conclusion on this key issue.
I also disagree with As assertion that I am seeking to re-write the policy terms and I 
disagree with their interpretation of what they consider to be the ordinary meaning of the 
contractual terms. I would also point out that I am not the first to disagree with how the 
excess clause has been interpreted in this policy. As A will be aware, from their review of the 
reports relating to the 2014 claim, in that case the surveyor, loss adjuster and the same 
underwriter also took a different view and applied only one excess to a similar claim. 
A has made a number of observations on the preliminary conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision regarding the render, the preliminary costs, the cavity trays, the glazed 
balustrade, and the ACO drainage channels. 
I have considered As detailed comments on these points, however, I would re-iterate what I 
said in my provisional decision, that my role is not to loss-adjust the scopes of works 
provided. Rather, as I explained in my provisional decision, given the number of elements in 
the leaseholders scope of works that I consider SoL havent fairly accounted for in its scope of works, and taking account of the approach SoL chose to follow in seeking to apply five 
excesses to the claim, I remain of the view that it was entirely reasonable for the 
leaseholders to proceed with the lower estimate, in carrying out repairs to the building. 
I also remain of the view that it is reasonable to make provision for works necessary to repair 
the damage, which are not able to be quantified at the outset (such as the removal of any 
existing cavity trays). However, I am not able to make an award in relation to costs that 
remain unknown. So, with regard to the provisional sums referred to, once the works have 
been completed, Mr P, on behalf Mr S should present the invoices to SoL, for an appropriate 
reimbursement to be made. If any final provisional costs are disputed by SoL, then Mr S 
and the leaseholders can make a second complaint about that, and if necessary, refer it to 
this service. 
I understand there will remain some elements of disagreement between SoLs surveyors and 
the leaseholders surveyors, as to the detail of the works that are required to repair the 
damage covered by the warranty. But, given the time that has passed since the claim was 
made, and given the unreasonable approach SoL have taken to settling the claim, I remain 
of the view that a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint is to require SoL to settle 
the claim by paying Mr S and the other leaseholders, the total amount detailed in the 
leaseholders surveyors (Ns) scope of works, subject to the deductions and additions set out 
below.
So, SoL should pay Mr S and each of the leaseholders their proportionate share of the 
settlement amount of £76,172.06 calculated as follows:
Leaseholders scope of works £111,009.18
Less the provisional costs allowed for in Ns SOW  -£15,575.00
Plus, the costs included in SoLs SOW for fixing  
the discharge of water elements of the balconies                 £1,450.00
Plus, VAT (on the total amount)   £19,376.84
Less two excesses  -£40,088.96
Total:   £76,172.06
Some of the repairs have already been completed. Where the leaseholders have already 
paid for repairs (either directly or via a service charge), SoL will need to pay 8% simple 
interest per annum on that part of the settlement, from the date the leaseholders paid for 
their share of the repairs to the date of settlement.
This decision has been made in respect of Mr S complaint, and his proportion of legal 
responsibility for the common parts. For each of the two common parts claims, Mr S and the 
other leaseholders can only claim for their share of the repair costs. To determine each 
leaseholders share of the repair costs (their proportionate share), SoL will need to consider 
the relevant lease agreements. I have issued decisions in relation to the other leaseholders 
complaints, regarding their proportion of legal responsibility for the common parts, on the 
same date as this decision, as they arise from the same claim decision.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint and require Society of Lloyds to pay Mr S:
his proportionate share of £76,172.06 (including VAT) in settlement of the claims; 
and 
8% simple interest per annum on any parts of the settlement where he has already 
paid for the repairs (either directly or via a service charge), from the date of that payment, to the date of payment of the awards detailed in this final decision. 
(NB: If Society of Lloyds considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from any interest paid, they should tell Mr S how much theyve taken off. If 
requested, Society of Lloyds should also give him a certificate showing the amount 
deducted, so he can reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Society of Lloyds to pay the 
awards detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman