DRN-4013838
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Santander UK Plc held him liable for transactions he says he 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In May 2022, Mr B went to a bar abroad, which Ill refer to as L. He accepts he made at 
least one genuine payment at L, but disputes about £3,000 of spending on his debit card and 
about £160 on his credit card from that night. He suggested L might have taken and 
replaced his cards or misrepresented what amounts they were putting through.
Santander raised chargebacks on Mr Bs behalf after some delay, and gave him temporary 
refunds. But they said that if the chargebacks werent successful, theyd hold him liable for 
the payments. They offered him £100 compensation for any distress caused in the way 
theyd handled his complaint.
In August 2022, Mr B was then charged another £3,000 or so via Ls payment service 
provider, which Ill refer to as W.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B 
appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr B and Santander a provisional decision on 7 February 2023, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I have taken into account everything that both sides have said and provided. But I wont 
comment on everything  instead, Ill focus my decision on the key points and the next steps.
Debit card payments to L
I can see that Santander raised chargebacks for the disputed debit card payments to L, 
totalling about £3,000. I can see these were refunded to Mr B in August 2022.
Santander have been very unclear about the status of these chargebacks, and appear to still 
be treating the refunds as temporary. However, its been nearly six months since these 
chargebacks were raised, the merchant wouldve only had a month or two to appeal them 
but dont appear to have done so, and the process should have finished some time ago.
We asked Santander for a copy of any representment theyd received from the merchants 
bank, but they didnt provide any. So it doesnt look like the merchants bank appealed or 
fought these chargebacks.
Meanwhile, Santander's notes appear to have logged these chargebacks as Solved, noting 
that they were won at pre-arbitration stage.
So by all accounts, it looks like the chargebacks for the debit card payments to L were 
successful. 
It follows that I currently think the temporary refunds should now be considered permanent, 
and that Santander can no longer re-debit them.
Credit card payments to L
Similarly, I can see that Santander raised chargebacks for the disputed credit card payments 
to L, totalling about £160. I can see these were refunded to Mr Bs credit card in July 2022.
Again, given the time thats passed, and given that the merchants bank does not seem to 
have provided any representment, it appears that these chargebacks were also successful.
So I currently think those temporary refunds should also now be considered permanent, and 
that Santander can no longer re-debit them.
Debit card payments to W
If Santander wish to hold Mr B liable for the payments to W, they will need to be able to 
evidence that the payments were properly authenticated, and that Mr B consented to them.
According to Santanders technical evidence, only four payments were authenticated that 
night  the four payments to L. Mr B did not authenticate an additional four payments to W at 
the same time for the same amounts.
As far as I can see, the payments to W were not properly authenticated. They do not appear 
to have used Mr Bs genuine card or PIN, the authentication method shows as unknown, 
and the amount authorised shows as 0.00. Further, the goods were categorised as being 
for airline transportation services, which is clearly not right for a bar.
I find that Santander have not evidenced that Mr B authenticated these payments, let alone 
that he consented to them. It follows that I do not currently think Santander can hold him 
liable for them.
Its also notable that the four debit card payments to W were put through at the same time as 
the four debit card payments to L. W simply appears to be Ls payment service provider, who 
for whatever reason delayed taking the amounts until August 2022. After adjusting the 
currency conversion rate for the time that passed, I see that the amounts in local currency 
for the four W payments are the same as the amounts for the four L payments.
In other words, it appears that the four W payments were made at the same time as the four 
L payments, for the exact same amounts, in the exact same order, without being separately 
authenticated. So based on what Ive got, I think its most likely that the W payments are 
simply duplicates of the L payments, and so were debited to Mr Bs account in error. That 
would also mean that Santander needs to refund them.Other issues
Lastly, I understand that Mr B was caused some real stress by the way Santander handled 
the situation. I agree with our investigator that £100 compensation is fair to put that right.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
7 March 2023. Santander agreed to the proposed redress, and clarified theyd already paid 
the £100 compensation. Mr B raised some further points, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B expressed his disappointment that Santander hadnt given him further details hed 
wanted about the transactions on the evening in question. And while I do understand his 
frustration, now that those transactions are being refunded  which is the key issue  I dont 
think that information is really relevant to the outcome of this case anymore. With that said, if 
Mr B feels Santander didnt provide data he was entitled to, he can make a separate 
complaint to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO for short) who oversee data issues.
Mr B also complained about Santander not handling the chargeback process correctly, and 
about the time it took. Santander have now agreed to treat the initial chargeback as 
permanent, to refund the four payments that they hadnt charged back, to refund the related 
fees, and to add simple interest to compensate Mr B for the time he was without his money. 
Im grateful to Santander for agreeing to do so, and this will put Mr B in the financial position 
he wouldve been in had things gone as they should have. So I think the chargeback issue 
will now be resolved.
Lastly, Mr B added that Santander hadnt acknowledged part of his complaint. As before, 
I agree with Mr B that Santander caused him some real stress in the way they handled this 
situation, and I do understand his point of view. When a business gets things wrong, we 
often tell them to pay compensation, to acknowledge their mistakes and the impact they had. 
In terms of the amounts, its worth bearing in mind that were not here to issue large fines or 
to punish businesses. Its also worth keeping in mind that it was the merchant, rather than 
Santander, who primarily caused the situation. And the simple interest that Santander will 
pay will already compensate Mr B for the delay in getting his money back. We have 
guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and I need to be consistent with 
those. Taking everything into account, I think that the £100 Santander paid is fair to put right 
the trouble and upset they caused Mr B here.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusions as before.
Putting things right
I direct Santander UK Plc to:
treat the chargeback refunds as permanent, and not re-debit them;
refund the four payments to W from August 2022;pay simple interest to Mr B on the transactions to W, at the rate of 8% simple a year, 
for periods where his account was in a credit balance. This simple interest is payable 
from the date the payments were debited until the date theyre returned. This is to 
compensate Mr B for the time he didnt have his money.
refund any interest or fees that Mr B incurred because of the disputed transactions, 
including any foreign currency fees;
pay Mr B the £100 compensation offered, which I understand theyve already done.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this simple interest. Santander 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one. Mr B may be 
able to claim the tax back from HMRC if he doesnt normally pay tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman