DRN-3308728
The complaint
Ms R is complaining that two cars financed through separate fixed sum loan agreements 
provided by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc were of unsatisfactory quality. She brings the 
claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75).
What happened
In June 2020 Ms R bought a new car. She financed it through a fixed sum loan agreement 
she took out through Santander.
Around three weeks after buying the car, she contacted Santander to say her car had 
developed a fault with the engine. Santander referred the matter to the supplying dealership 
to review and it was agreed that Ms R would be given a like for like replacement. And in 
July 2020 Ms R received a replacement car. She also entered into a new finance agreement 
with Santander.
In August 2020 Ms R contacted Santander again to say the replacement car had developed 
the same fault and she asked to return the car. Santander spoke to Ms R a couple of weeks 
later and she said the fault had rectified itself. However, Ms R contacted Santander again 
shortly after to say there were issues with the hazard and traction lights. She explained the 
car was in the garage being inspected.
In October 2020 Ms R told Santander shed sold the car. Santander referred the matter to 
the supplying dealership who said theyd done extensive road tests of the car and couldnt 
replicate the issue. And they said the issue Ms R was experiencing was a design feature of 
the model of car.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She was satisfied there was a fault with the 
original car Ms R bought. However, she thought the supplying dealership had acted fairly in 
arranging to swap the car for a like-for-like replacement. But, she thought it should also pay 
£150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience in initially supplying a car that 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. However, she didnt think there was enough to show there was 
a fault with the replacement car. So she didnt think Santander needed to do anything further 
to put this right. 
Ms R didnt accept the investigators opinion. She maintained there was a fault with the car. 
She said she also spoke with the new owner of the car who said the car had had issues with 
the engine cutting out. So she queried what more she needed to provide to show there were 
faults with the car.
As Ms R didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator for largely the same reasons. Ill now 
explain why.
Ms R paid for the car through a fixed sum loan agreement. S75 sets out that in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, Santander is jointly liable for any breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
Legislation  in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term into the 
purchase agreement with the suppling dealership that the car must be of satisfactory quality. 
As the finance provider, under the principles of S75, Santander can be held jointly 
responsible for the quality of the car Ms R bought.  
In deciding whether this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage and age. In this case, Ms R paid around 
£24,000 for the car and the car was brand new.
Its accepted there was a fault with the first car Ms R bought  in particular with a crank shaft 
sensor  that rendered the car of satisfactory quality. However, the supplying dealership 
arranged to replace the car, which is in line with the remedies available to Ms R under the 
CRA. So I dont think Santander needed to do anything further. 
I note Santander has since agreed to pay Ms R £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
Ms R says she suffered as a result of being supplied with a car that was of unsatisfactory 
quality at the start. However, Im conscious Santander didnt supply the car to Ms R  that 
was the supplying dealership. So I think this offer is more than fair, as Santander didnt 
cause the distress and inconvenience. 
However the fundamental issue in question is in respect to the replacement car Ms R was 
given. The supplying dealership doesnt believe theres a fault with the car and has said the 
issue Ms R has referred to is a design feature of the car. Ms R maintains there was a fault 
with the car and also has referred to comments she says the new owner has made about it.
I appreciate Ms Rs strength of feeling in this matter. But Im also conscious its for her to 
demonstrate there was a fault with the car  i.e. its not for the supplying dealership or 
Santander to demonstrate there isnt one. Ms R sold the car before it was inspected, so 
there isnt a report for me to consider that demonstrates theres something wrong with the 
car. 
I have, however, taken Ms Rs comments into account about the issues shes encountered 
with the car. But, Ive also considered the supplying dealerships comments that the issues 
Ms R is complaining about are a design feature of the car. And its explained that The 
hazards lights coming on was a feature on the [model of car] where if you hit a pot hole at a 
speed for example, something that made the car think there had been an impact, the car 
would put the hazard lights on temporarily to signal other drivers that there had been a 
potential impact.
Im satisfied that this demonstrates the issues Ms R has said she experienced with the 
hazard lights was most likely to be a design feature of the car rather than any inherent fault 
with the car.
Ms R has also said there was an issue with the engine cutting out. But, other than her 
testimony, she hasnt provided anything to support this. I also understand that the supplying 
dealership carried out a number of road tests to look to replicate the fault, but wasnt able to 
locate a fault. Santander has said  in response to the S75 claim  that there isnt anything 
to demonstrate theres a fault with the car. Taking everything into consideration, I dont think Ive seen enough to support the fact that there was a fault with the replacement car. So I 
dont think I can reasonably conclude that Ms R has demonstrated that there was a breach 
of contract that Santander needs to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plcs offer to pay Ms R £150 in compensation is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I dont award anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman