DRN-3989443
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about the service shes received from Liverpool Victoria Financial 
Services Limited (LV) when trying to set up regular pension contributions of £25 per month.
What happened
Following the cancellation of premiums to her Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
contribution (FSAVC) policy due to what she considered to be poor fund performance, Mrs T 
contacted LV in May 2022 to confirm that she wished to restart payments.
But despite ensuing correspondence between the parties over the following months, the 
contributions didnt restart. Mrs T has said that she spent a long time on the phone trying to 
speak to members of staff who didnt execute the actions they said they would.
Frustrated with the lack of progress in trying to restart her pension contributions, Mrs T 
referred the matter to this service.
LV did then set up Mrs Ts pension contributions, but it took amounts of £75 and £100 in 
December 2022 and January 2023 respectively, rather than the £25 per month which Mrs T 
had wanted to contribute.
One of our investigators considered the matter and thought it should be upheld, saying the 
following in summary:
She noted that LV had acknowledged that it had made errors, and so she considered 
what it needed to do to put matters right for Mrs T.
Mrs T had wanted to set up pension contributions at £25 per month, starting in May 
2022. And so she would have been making contributions since then.
LV had confirmed that it had set up contributions for £25 per month from February 
2023. It had already taken contributions amounting to £175, and it had agreed to 
waive the remaining £75. This was sufficient to put Mrs T in the position she would 
otherwise have been, had her contributions begun in May 2022.
LV had also offered Mrs T £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused, and the investigator was satisfied that this was in line with the type of award 
this service would make under similar circumstances.
The investigator therefore endorsed the proposals made by LV.
Mrs T then contacted the investigator to say that shed received a letter from LV saying that 
her policy was going to lapse. 
Mrs T therefore said that shed like the matter referred to an ombudsman for review.
The investigator queried the letter with LV, which confirmed that it had been sent in error, 
and that Mrs Ts policy wouldnt lapse.
LV further confirmed that the necessary unit adjustment had been made on Mrs Ts policy to 
reflect a monthly payment from May 2022 to date, and that it was trying to resolve the matter 
of the ongoing premiums.
Mrs T asked that the referral to an ombudsman be paused whilst LV was looking into the 
premium issue.
But she then told the investigator that shed received a further letter from LV which she said 
created more confusion about the payments made since September 2022. She also said 
that she hadnt at any point been made aware that the minimum premium was £75 and that 
she was told in September 2022 that this was the payment to which she would revert  as 
she had contributed for previous years.
As she had ongoing concerns about LVs handling of the matter, she said that shed like the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
The investigator queried the new letter with LV, which looked into it and then said that it had 
confirmed to Mrs T directly by email that the letter had been issued as a result of it changing 
the premium to £25 per month. It said that it would collect £50 in March 2023 in respect of 
the February and March premiums. And that Mrs T could ignore the letter sent to her.
At Mrs Ts request, however, the complaint has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As far as I can tell, Mrs T has asked for the referral to an ombudsman more for reassurance 
that matters are in hand  and I can understand why. It does seem as if the picture over the 
last 11 months has been somewhat confusing, and the more recent letters since the referral 
to this service and our investigators assessment have added to that confusion.
It does, however, seem to be the case that LV is committed to ensuring that Mrs T is placed 
in the position she should now be in, but for the errors made. I obviously cant oversee the 
actual implementation of the corrective action which LV has proposed, but from reading its 
internal emails, it does appear that its already taken steps to ensure that the correct number 
of units has been added to reflect the missed premiums from May 2022.
As its also committed to ensuring that the correct premiums are taken in the future, there 
seems to be little more that I could direct it to do in terms of ensuring that the policy functions 
properly.
But if there are further problems in the future, Mrs T can of course complain again and refer 
that complaint to this service if she remains dissatisfied with LVs response.
Ive also then thought about the amount LV offered to Mrs T in respect of the trouble and 
upset caused by the matter. As Ive said above, I do think that Mrs T will have been 
understandably confused, upset and frustrated by events since May 2022. 
But as with the investigator, Im satisfied that the amount of £300 offered by LV, along with 
the waived shortfall in the premiums actually paid by Mrs T since May 2022, is probably 
about right in the circumstances.Putting things right
LV should ensure that the unit amendment has been applied properly (my understanding is 
that this has already happened), and that the correct premiums are collected from Mrs T on 
an ongoing basis.
If the £300 payment hasnt yet been made, and subject to Mrs Ts acceptance of this 
decision, LV should also pay this to Mrs T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Liverpool Victoria Financial 
Services Limited to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman