DRN-2856401
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained about National Westminster Bank Plc declining their 
application for a mortgage. As NatWest wouldnt lend them as much as they needed they got 
a mortgage elsewhere to buy the property. 
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) for redeeming 
their mortgage as they wanted to stay with NatWest. They say the NatWest adviser told 
them when they took out the rate that they could port it to a new property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O remortgaged to NatWest in 2019. Initially they applied through a third-party 
mortgage broker for a five-year fixed rate, but that application didnt proceed. They then 
applied again directly with NatWest, and the NatWest adviser recommended they take a rate 
that was fixed until 31 October 2024. Mr and Mrs Os mortgage was subject to an ERC if it 
was repaid before that date. 
In 2020 they applied  via a third-party mortgage broker  to port their existing mortgage 
product to a new property, plus borrow some extra funds which was initially noted to be 
around £70,000. NatWests underwriter said it would only look to lend around £12,000 less 
than that based on the information the broker put forward. But that it would be assessed fully 
once all the supporting evidence was received.
Once the information was in it was noted that Mrs O was furloughed so her income couldnt 
be taken into account under NatWests lending policy. The application then failed the credit 
score so NatWest told the broker it was unable to grant the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs O decided to continue with their house move, so they applied to another lender 
for the mortgage to do so. In May 2021 Mr and Mrs O complained to NatWest that they were 
to be charged an ERC of around £6,500 for repaying the mortgage early. They said they 
wanted that amount waived.
I understand that Mr and Mrs Os new property purchase completed on 28 May 2021, and 
Mr and Mrs O say they had to borrow an amount to pay the ERC from a family member.
Our investigator said NatWest hadnt done anything wrong when it was unwilling to lend 
Mr and Mrs O more than they already owed, and that any application would always have 
been subject to checks at the time. It was unfortunate that things had changed and NatWest 
wasnt able to grant the application, but that doesnt mean NatWest needed to waive or 
refund the ERC.
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs O wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and 
businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either party. Were required to 
decide whats fair and reasonable having assessed all of the available evidence from the 
parties.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs O feel NatWest was being unfair. But it isnt my role to tell lenders 
whether to lend  or how much to lend - to particular consumers. Lenders are able to use 
their commercial judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend to consumers. My role 
is to ensure such judgement is applied fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute my 
judgement for the banks. In this case, NatWest correctly and fairly applied its lending criteria 
to Mr and Mrs Os application. It follows that Im satisfied NatWest didnt act unreasonably in 
being unwilling to take Mr and Mrs Os application forward.
Mr and Mrs O have said that the new property was only £65,000 more expensive, and they 
had no choice but to move to a new house because their existing two-bed house was too 
small for them and their eight-year old child. And that would have been fine if Mr and Mrs O 
had that extra £65,000 themselves to fund the difference. But they didnt. Instead they 
needed to increase their mortgage to fund the extra amount.
Mr and Mrs O have said they told the mortgage adviser that they intended to move house in 
the next five-years, whereas the mortgage adviser says that wasn't disclosed. There was a 
question on the fact find that asked if Mr and Mrs O had any plans for the property, such as 
moving house and that was answered no. Mr and Mrs O say they didnt see the fact find, 
and NatWest cant prove they did. NatWest said Mr and Mrs O opted to receive their 
mortgage documentation through its paperless portal DigiDocs and the fact find, along with 
all the other documentation, was uploaded to there so Mr and Mrs O could review it at any 
time. It says it has no way of knowing if any of those documents were viewed or not.
When considering any complaint like this, as Mr and Mrs O are the ones bringing the 
complaint against NatWest, to uphold the complaint Mr and Mrs Os version needs to be
more likely than NatWests version; not just as likely. Having considered everything I cant 
say Mr and Mrs Os version is anything more than just as likely, which isnt enough for me to 
uphold their complaint on this point. Thats not to say I disbelieve Mr and Mrs O, but equally 
Ive no reason to disbelieve NatWests mortgage adviser.
In any event, this complaint doesnt turn on that point. Ill explain why.
In one of the calls Mr O had with our investigator, Mr O was asked if the mortgage adviser 
had categorically said  in 2019 - that the extra amount Mr and Mrs O needed to borrow in 
2021 was guaranteed. Our investigator asked if, based on that conversation Mr O said took 
place, he would still have expected to be able to borrow extra money if their circumstances 
had changed, such as Mr O or Mrs O having been made redundant, for example.
In reply Mr O said No, because the conversation was unless your income changes [] He 
also said in the calls that the adviser told them any future application was dependent on their 
credit information not changing. So by Mr Os own admission, he and Mrs O were told in 2019 by the mortgage adviser that any future application was dependent on their income 
and would be subject to checks at the time. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs O feel so strongly about this, and I have a lot of sympathy for 
them. They feel they are being penalised because Mrs O was furloughed due to Covid.
Lenders are generally allowed to assess their mortgage applications in line with the level of 
risk they are willing to accept at a given time. And this often changes in times of uncertainty. 
NatWests lending policy was that it wasnt willing to lend to anyone with a furloughed 
income. That was likely to be because of uncertainty of when this scheme would end and 
whether people would be able to go back to work following the scheme ending. I dont think 
this is unreasonable or unfair, and it wasnt an unusual lending policy in the mortgage 
market. NatWest hadnt made a formal mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs O for the new 
mortgage, and before an offer is issued there is always a risk an application may be 
declined. Theres no obligation for NatWest to proceed with issuing a mortgage offer when a 
case doesnt meet the current lending criteria, even if it may have met the previous criteria. 
Mr O said to our investigator Its not our fault, its not NatWests fault and If Covid hadnt 
happened we would have the mortgage, we wouldnt be charged the [ERC]. And that is the 
problem, and why we cant uphold this complaint. 
If Covid hadnt happened then it is likely Mr and Mrs O would have been able to get the new 
mortgage and wouldnt have incurred the ERC; but Covid did happen. Thats not 
Mr and Mrs Os fault, but it isnt NatWests fault either. Mr O asked why NatWest cant meet 
them in the middle, by that I assume he is asking why NatWest couldnt refund half of the 
ERC. I cant order NatWest to refund half the ERC to Mr and Mrs O just because it was 
neither their nor NatWests fault. Thats because I can only order a business to do something 
if I uphold the complaint, and I can only uphold the complaint if Im satisfied NatWest did 
something wrong.
If Mr and Mrs O wanted to borrow the same amount of money NatWest could have agreed to 
that. I also think it is most likely that NatWest would have agreed to lend Mr and Mrs O more 
money if Covid hadnt happened and Mrs O hadnt been furloughed. So even if things 
happened exactly as Mr O told our investigator they did in 2019 (which, for the reasons I 
explained earlier I cant base this complaint on anyway) then that information was right. As 
Mr O said to our investigator that he was told any future application was subject to income 
and credit checks. Unfortunately, in 2021, Mr and Mrs Os application didnt pass those 
checks.
At that point Mr and Mrs O had a choice to make, they could:
Remain in their house and leave the mortgage to run as it was until their circumstances 
changed, or the ERC period ended.
Find a different house to buy that meant they didnt need to borrow any extra money on 
their mortgage.
Move house, take a new mortgage with a different lender and incur the ERC with 
NatWest.
Mr and Mrs O chose the third option, as was their right. But equally NatWest was within its 
rights to hold Mr and Mrs O to the contract theyd entered into in 2019 and that meant it 
could charge them an ERC when they ended the mortgage early.A mortgage loan and a mortgage product are two different things. A loan is the underlying 
transaction in which money is lent; the product is the terms that sit on top. For example, an 
agreement to borrow £100,000 over 25 years is a mortgage loan; an agreement that for the 
first five years a fixed interest rate rather than the standard variable rate will apply is the 
mortgage product that sits on top.
In moving house, a borrower pays off their old mortgage with the proceeds of the sale. They 
also, and separately, apply for a new mortgage to fund buying the new property. A lender will 
consider the new application on its own merits. If its prepared to grant a new mortgage, it 
will then consider whether to port across the old product  if the terms of the old product 
allow it. These are two separate decisions.
If a lender isnt prepared to grant a new loan, then porting cant happen, and so the 
mortgage product ends with the old loan; depending on the product terms, an ERC may be 
payable.
Looking at the 2019 mortgage offer I think it was made sufficiently clear that while porting 
was a feature of the mortgage product there were conditions attached:
Your new application must meet our lending criteria current at the time you move. We 
will carry out credit checks on you, and will require a valuation of the new property, and 
will decline to port if you do not meet our criteria in force at that time. This may mean 
that we decline to lend at all on the new property, or may allow you to port less than the 
amount you have applied for.
Overall, I dont find that Mr and Mrs O were misled. A lender cant anticipate all of the 
possible scenarios that may occur, especially something unprecedented like a global 
pandemic. I understand Mr and Mrs O feel that NatWest hasnt treated them fairly. But in my 
view the decision not to agree the mortgage Mr and Mrs O needed to buy the new property 
was one that NatWest was entitled to make as a matter of its commercial discretion. The fact 
they could get a mortgage elsewhere doesnt mean that NatWest did anything wrong. 
Different lenders have their own policies, which is only right.
Whilst Mr and Mrs O were entitled to port their mortgage across on a like-for-like basis, they 
werent entitled to borrow extra money if NatWest deemed it unaffordable or otherwise 
outside its lending criteria. 
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers (both 
new and existing) on the wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally 
fixed in advance. But the lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs in the 
form of interest on the mortgages it makes using the money its borrowed. If a mortgage 
ends early, it doesnt get that interest, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising the 
funds to offer that preferential rate. Here the mortgage ended early and there were costs - 
and a loss of future profit - involved in that. In the circumstances, Im satisfied NatWest was 
entitled to charge Mr and Mrs O the ERC set out in their mortgage contract, and didnt treat 
them unfairly in the circumstances in which the ERC came about. 
The ERC was clearly set out in the paperwork NatWest provided before Mr and Mrs O took 
out the product. For the reasons given above I dont consider it appropriate to order NatWest 
to refund all, or part, of that ERC.My final decision
Whilst I have considerable sympathy for Mr and Mrs O, I dont uphold their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman