DRN-3264832
The complaint
Mr M complains that Metro Bank PLC didnt help recover the money he paid to a scam 
investment company.
What happened
Mr M says that he was interested in trading in the foreign exchange market and in February 
2019, he came across an advertisement on social media for a company called UFX.com. He 
registered with it and was contacted by a representative who sold him an investment 
opportunity. 
Mr M opened a trading account with UFX and initially sent USD 250 (£193.89) and USD 200 
(£155.07) using his Metro Bank debit card. He says that he started receiving calls frequently 
from UFX and a specialist was assigned who advised him on how to use the trading 
platform. Mr M was able to withdraw USD 25 from his trading account  it appeared as a 
refund on his Metro Bank current account. He says it was at that point he sent a further 
USD 4,500 (£3,399.89) through his Metro Bank debit card. 
The following month  March 2019  within a space of two weeks, Mr M sent over £56,000 
to his trading account with UFX. The money was sent from accounts held with other financial 
businesses and is therefore not the subject of this complaint. Mr M states that it was after 
hed made the payments in March that the problems began. Hes explained that his trading 
account balance went to zero very quickly following the execution of trades. 
Mr M asked Metro Bank (and other financial businesses involved) for assistance with 
recovering the money. But Metro Bank said it wouldnt attempt a chargeback for disputed 
payments as the relevant rules excluded such transactions.
Our investigator concluded that although it was reasonable for Metro Bank to have executed 
the first two  smaller  payments in accordance with Mr Ms instructions, it should have 
done additional checks before releasing the third  larger  payment. The investigator 
thought intervention in the form of contact from Metro Bank could have enabled Mr M to 
realise that he was in the process of being scammed.
Metro Bank disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary, it said it was not 
involved in the creation of the code of practice that the investigator had referred to; it was 
outside this services remit to comment on Metro Banks internal security measures; and it 
couldnt be conclusively said that the third payment would have been stopped had it phoned 
Mr M. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for review and 
determination. In an attempt to resolve this complaint at the earliest possible stage through 
mediation (as our rules encourage), I contacted Mr M informally to explain how I was minded 
to proceed. I explained why I intended to reach a different outcome to our investigator. 
In short, I didnt think Metro Bank had acted unfairly by not pursuing the chargeback; Id 
noted that Mr M had accepted a full and final settlement of £33,000 from UFXs parent 
company before a civil case was decided by the courts in Cyprus; I didnt think the third 
payment was so unusual or uncharacteristic that it should have prompted additional checks; 
and I wasnt persuaded that a contact or discussion would have led Mr M to do anything 
differently even if I were to conclude that Metro Bank should have intervened.
Mr M didnt agree. He reiterated that he notified Metro Bank well within the time period for 
requesting a chargeback. He said that the money he received from UFX following court 
proceedings was nowhere the amount that he lost. Mr M also added that his complaints 
against other financial businesses he sent payments from have been upheld by our service. 
As Mr M didnt agree with my provisional thoughts, its now appropriate for me to present my 
findings formally.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have a duty to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering. But when simply executing authorised 
payments, they dont have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give 
investment advice. And the financial services regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), has confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised investment 
advice.
So, the first question to resolve is whether this particular trader was a fraudster.
Were the disputed payments fraudulent?
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary options or forex scam is in 
fact a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. 
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales 
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost 
out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006). 
In simpler terms, some merchants may have used sales and promotional methods that could 
be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but this does 
not always amount to fraud. When considering this for Mr Ms case, Ive paid particular 
attention to the official organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in 
the UK and abroad. Ive searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization 
of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's 
securities regulators. And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which 
is in place to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as 
potentially being fraudulent. 
Upon checking both of these, its my understanding that UFX had no adverse information 
reported about it at the time Mr M authorised his payments. What I have noted was that it 
was registered with the FCA at the time of Mr Ms payments. Ive seen that the FCA cancelled UFXs registration on 11 June 2020 and explained after this 
date, UFX could no longer provide investment services to UK customers. But this information 
was not available at the time of Mr Ms disputed payments. I must therefore take into 
account that theres strong evidence here  particularly because there are no regulator 
warnings that were published at the material time  that UFX hadnt been identified as a 
fraudulent company when these payments were made. 
Whats more, Ive also looked at other third-party evidence, to determine whether UFX may 
fairly and reasonably be regarded as fraudulently seeking gains at the expense of others. 
Ive seen some negative reviews about UFX, including delays with processing withdrawal 
requests and customers losing money. But I cant ignore that, while this could be seen as 
circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall picture of UFX, this is not in itself 
sufficient evidence of fraud. 
I must follow the evidence and, essentially, I have no credible evidence to persuade me with 
any degree of certainty that UFX was operating a scam and the evidence I have seen 
suggests that UFX was indeed regulated at the time it offered services to Mr M. So, taking 
everything into consideration, Im not persuaded that UFX was in fact a fraudulent company.
Having concluded that this was not a fraudulent company and was potentially a bad bargain 
or poor investment advice, I need to consider the following: 
1. Did Metro Bank deal with Mr Ms chargeback fairly? 
2. If so, were any of the disputed transactions still so unusual or uncharacteristic for 
Mr M and/or his account that Metro Bank fraud alerts ought reasonably to have 
triggered some sort of intervention? 
3. If triggered, would Metro Banks intervention have made a difference and 
prevented or reduced the loss? 
4. And if so, was Mr M partly to blame for what happened such that it would be fair 
and reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately?
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by the card scheme  MasterCard, Visa or American 
Express. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if theres a problem with 
the goods or services theyve paid for. But theres no legal right to a chargeback. And each 
scheme has its own rules.
Mr Ms debit card was issued under the MasterCard scheme. So, MasterCards rules 
governing chargebacks apply. Its not in dispute that Mr M requested a chargeback within 
the timescales set out in the MasterCard scheme rules. But chargeback rights are limited 
through the scheme rules when it comes to claims relating to gambling, investment or similar 
activities. 
Our service has sought clarification from MasterCard, and it has explained that if a merchant 
(in this case UFX) does not make funds transferred to it available for use in the type of 
transactions for which it received them (in this case, trading on its platform), then there may 
be a chargeback right. 
But this isnt what happened here. The nature of Mr Ms claim is that hed fallen victim to a 
scam. Given that MasterCard has made it clear that there would be no reasonable prospect 
of success through its scheme for claims of this nature, I dont think Metro Bank acted 
unfairly by not pursuing the chargeback when Mr M raised it.Even if I were to conclude that Metro Bank should have attempted a chargeback  for the 
avoidance of any doubt, this isnt the conclusion Ive reached here  Im mindful that Mr M 
received accepted a full and final settlement which discharges UFX from any further liability 
to him. In my view, it wouldnt be unreasonable if Metro Bank didnt pursue a chargeback 
based on that fact alone as it would no doubt have an impact on the prospect of success.  
Duty of Care 
Metro Bank is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence 
duties to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published 
many decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules 
and regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail. 
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr M for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr M using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by Metro Bank. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr M feels 
he was the victim of a scam. So, although he did not intend the money to go to scammers, 
under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his account, Mr M is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider good industry practice at the time, I consider that Metro Bank 
should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams; 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks and building societies are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer; and 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive therefore considered whether Metro Bank should have looked into the circumstances of 
the payments in question before deciding whether to process them. In other words, were 
there fraud triggers that meant it ought to have identified a payment as being unusual or 
uncharacteristic that Id expect Metro Bank to have identified that Mr M might be at risk from 
fraud or a scam.
Looking at the account history over a 12-month period leading up to the first transaction, the 
payment doesnt appear to be unusual or out of character. Mr M had occasionally made card 
payments for similar amounts during this period. So, I agree with our investigator that its not 
unreasonable that this payment, or the second payment of a similar amount, wasnt flagged 
by Metro Banks systems as suspicious. But I dont share the investigators view that the 
third  larger  payment should have alerted Metro Bank to the possibility that Mr Ms 
account was being subjected to unusual activity. I acknowledge £3,400 is a large amount, 
but that in itself doesnt make the transaction sufficiently unusual or suspicious to make 
Metro Bank take further action. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments 
that could potentially be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  
and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments.   As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper 
entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting 
victimsthat it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types 
of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. While the regulator gave no 
specific timings, its not unreasonable in my view to expect a large firm to update its watch-
list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being posted by the 
FCA or IOSCO. In my judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bellsand 
lead to the payment being pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) 
to the payer. 
But in Mr Ms case, in February 2019, there were no warnings from the FCA or IOSCO that 
indicated UFX was a scam company. And rather the evidence does suggest that it was 
registered with the FCA. I wouldnt have expected Metro Bank to have picked up a payment 
to UFX as being suspicious, given theres no credible evidence of it being reported as a 
scam or fraudulent company in February 2019. And by the time Mr M authorised this large 
payment, hed already sent two smaller payments to UFX and not raised any concerns about 
them.
Even if I were to conclude that the larger payment ought to have given Metro Bank cause for 
additional checks, Im not persuaded that this would have stopped Mr M from going ahead 
with the payment. Ive established that UFX was regulated at the time it offered services to 
Mr M. And Ive noted that theres no credible evidence available in February 2019 to suggest 
with any degree of certainty that UFX was operating a scam. Im not convinced that Mr M 
would have done anything differently had Metro Bank contacted him and hed carried out 
additional research on UFX. 
I note Mr M has said that this service has upheld other complaints hes made about different 
financial businesses regarding payments to UFX. Its important to note that we consider 
each case on its merits. Each case is different and while it may be that Mr Ms other cases 
relate to payments sent to UFX, it doesnt automatically follow that the considerations 
relevant to each case will also be the same. In this decision, Ive considered the merits of the 
case before me.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman