DRN-2973427
The complaint
This complaint is about a joint residential mortgage that Mrs & Mr P have with Kensington 
Mortgage Company Limited. At its highest level, the complaint is that Kensington hasnt 
treated them fairly in its approach to dealing with arrears that have accrued on the mortgage.
What happened
At a closer level, Mrs & Mr Ps complaint can be broken down into the following bullet points:
capitalisation of arrears without their knowledge or consent, the amount of the 
capitalised arrears and that this was applied to the mortgage balance rather than 
being paid to them;
Kensingtons decision to lend to Mr P, who is self-employed. Mr P says that his 
employment status is reflected in Kensingtons interest rate, and so Kensington, in 
issuing a mortgage offer, implicitly agreed to sporadic payments rather than the full 
payment each month; and
Kensingtons arrears-handling, which has caused distress to Mrs & Mr P.
The mortgage offer was issued on 23 December 2005 by the original lender which Ill refer to 
here as M. The mortgage was transferred to Kensington immediately after completion.
By way of a jurisdiction decision issued in January of this year, a fellow ombudsman made 
the following ruling on our remit to consider the complaint:
Wed already considered the complaint about capitalised arrears, and another 
ombudsman had issued a final decision in August 2019; we wouldnt look into it 
again.
Mrs & Mr P had waited too long under the time limits in our rules to complain about 
the lending decision; this meant the complaint was time-barred and therefore out of 
our jurisdiction.
We could consider the complaint about arrears-handling but only in respect of what 
had happened since March 2014 when Kensington replied to an earlier complaint 
about this subject, giving Mrs & Mr P six months (i.e. until September 2014) in which 
to refer the complaint to us. Mrs & Mr P referred their complaint to us in 2019; this 
meant the complaint was time-barred and therefore out of our jurisdiction for events 
before March 2014. 
The case then went back to an investigator to consider the merits of the complaint as it 
related to arrears-handling since March 2014. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded Kensington was materially at fault in its handling of the 
arrears on the mortgage in the period since March 2014, and didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mrs & Mr P have asked that it be referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. Its up to us to decide what evidence we need to decide a complaint, 
where we should get it from, and what weight we should attach to it once we have it. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes Mrs & Mr Ps latest email, received after the investigator gave them a further 
extension of time to respond to his assessment. Mrs & Mr P say that they hope that after 
reviewing the case, I will give them more time to make a final submission. Its our judgement 
to determine when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion. Having read 
everything that both parties have said and provided, Im satisfied Mrs & Mr P have already 
had ample time to make their final submission (the investigators view was dated 
9 July 2021) and that I have all that I need to determine this complaint.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
First of all, Ive looked at the decision my fellow ombudsman reached on our remit to 
consider Mrs & Mr Ps complaint; having done so, I agree with her decision, and the reasons 
behind it, and so I wont be revisiting it. To be clear, my review of the merits of the complaint 
is confined to arrears-handling since March 2014. Thats not say I wont reference earlier 
events or those relating to the other aspects of the complaint, but if I do, it will be for context 
only.
Its a common misconception that the rules of mortgage regulation require lenders to provide 
forbearance. What they actually require lenders to do is consider each set of individual 
circumstances fairly to decide if forbearance should be provided; the two things arent the 
same. Wed expect a lender to consider offering help to consumers going through a 
temporary problem, especially in situations where it can be seen their situation is likely to 
improve. 
The dilemma here is that Mrs & Mr Ps difficulty in getting control of the arrears on their 
mortgage has been anything but temporary. The pressure to do so must have been (and I 
imagine continues to be) immense for Mrs & Mr P; of that I am in no doubt. But my 
impartiality means I must also have regard for Kensingtons point of view. 
Amongst the steps a lender might consider taking to help consumers in arrears are:
adding the arrears to the main balance; i.e. capitalising the arrears; 
agreeing a lower rate; 
switching temporarily from capital repayment to interest-only; and
extending the term.
Capitalisation (and to be clear, Im not referring here to the automatic capitalisation that has 
already been the subject of the complaint we decided in 2019) of arrears is a concession, 
and an onerous one at that. It permanently increases the mortgage balance by the amount of the arrears, and commits the borrower to repaying that higher balance over the mortgage 
term, with all the extra interest that goes with it. That requires a higher contractual monthly 
payment than the consumers are already, by definition, struggling to pay. 
 
For that reason, lenders tend to have strict qualifying criteria; as an example, its not 
untypical for borrowers to be required to pay the existing full contractual payment in full and 
on time for a minimum of twelve consecutive months. Even if that is achieved, it doesnt 
guarantee capitalisation will be approved; its merely a pre-condition before lenders will even 
consider capitalisation. An inherent part of Mrs & Mr Ps situation is that Mr Ps income, and 
therefore by extension their ability to maintain payments, isnt regular. 
As far as a lower rate is concerned, its worth pointing out that no borrower is entitled to a 
lower rate; lenders have to consider context and individual circumstances in all cases. Most 
lenders, when asked to provide a new rate to a borrower with an arrears history, require the 
arrears to be cleared in full and then the mortgage kept up to date and arrears-free for a 
minimum period (a year is not untypical) before theyll consider offering a new rate. 
Thats because most rate deals come with an early repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage 
ends during the term of the deal. If a borrower still couldnt afford the payment under a new 
deal, they might still be at risk of the property being taken into possession and then sold. If 
that happened, then the ERC clause would be activated resulting in an extra amount being 
added to the closing balance on sale. So lenders typically guard against that risk by insisting 
on an arrears-free period before considering a new rate deal.
Switching temporarily from capital repayment to interest-only wasnt an option because the 
mortgage was already interest-only. Lastly, extending the term wouldnt help because that, 
too is something that only benefits borrowers who have a capital repayment mortgage, by 
making the monthly payment lower and theoretically more manageable. 
Whatever shortcomings Mrs & Mr P have perceived about Kensingtons arrears 
management, the underlying difficulty for them is that theyve never got themselves to a 
point where any of the afore-mentioned forbearance options, or any others that I havent 
specifically referenced, were feasible options. Ultimately, Mrs & Mr P havent been able to 
persuade Kensington that they have a realistic and affordable plan for getting on top of their 
arrears. 
I appreciate there are reasons for that, but it isnt appropriate for me to form my own 
judgement on what an affordable and/or viable payment plan might have been, and impose 
it, retrospectively or otherwise, on Kensington (or on Mrs & Mr P for that matter). Its not my 
role to analyse Mrs & Mr Ps finances and decide how likely it is that they could have 
afforded to pay Kensington a particular sum each month to clear the arrears in a realistic 
timescale. That is, and must always remain, for Kensingtons commercial judgement to 
decide. 
As far as legal action is concerned, first some context: Mrs & Mr P have been in and out of 
arrears for almost a long as the mortgage has existed. Kensington has taken them to court 
before, and twice been given a possession order. At the time I write this, it hasnt sought to 
enforce any order. Legal action was covered in the final decision on the complaint about 
automatic capitalisation in 2019. So Im limited to looking at whats happened more recently.
At the time of the investigators view in July 2021, the arrears were on the cusp of £90,000:  
Mrs & Mr Ps monthly mortgage payment is nearly £3,000, so unless theyve paid anything 
since then, itll now be around £95,000; thats approximately 20% of the total debt. Whilst 
they might not think so, Kensington has shown remarkable patience and leniency towards 
Mrs & Mr P for a very long time. Its not obliged to do so indefinitely.However unwelcome it might be, losing ones home due to mortgage arrears is not an 
impossibility, and nor is it something that I can say is inherently unfair. That may be an 
uncomfortable message for Mrs & Mr P to hear, but not every arrears situation is readily 
resolvable, and it isnt necessarily a regulatory failing on a lenders part if a solution that suits 
all parties isnt found. 
One of the fundamental principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money owed to it. It would be inequitable and 
inappropriate for me to remove that right from Kensington in a final decision on Mrs & Mr Ps 
complaint, regardless of their wider situation. If that eventually leads to court action, that may 
well be unwelcome to Mrs & Mr P but in all the circumstances I cant say its unfair. If that 
does happen, the eventual decision will lie with the court, which is how it should be.
That brings me to the fees and charges that have been applied; again Im confined to 
considering whats happened since March 2014, but in addition to that, I note that the 
redress applied in respect of the automatic capitalisation complaint included fees and 
charges refunds up to May 2018. In reality, Im therefore looking at fees and charges applied 
since May 2018. There are made up of arrears charges, field agent charges and legal costs.
The starting position is that lenders generally are permitted under the mortgage terms to 
apply fees and charges to cover the additional cost of administering a mortgage account that 
is in arrears. Such charges are typically set out in a separate tariff of charges. 
But lenders also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where fees have been 
applied in accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, well still give 
separate consideration to whether theyve been applied fairly. One situation where we 
generally find that arrears fees or charges havent been applied fairly is if, in the month when 
a fee or charge has been applied, the customer has paid either the contractual payment or a 
different amount agreed as part of a payment arrangement. Thats just one example 
amongst several well take into account when assessing fairness.
Ive looked at the fees and charges Kensington applied after May 2018; Ive also looked at 
Mrs & Mr Ps payment record during that period, and the legal work carried out on 
Kensingtons behalf. Using the fairness test mentioned in the previous paragraph, I dont find 
that any of the fees and charges applied after May 2018 were applied unfairly.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions the determination with which Mrs & Mr P have 
brought the complaint. They see error or wrong-doing in almost everything the business and 
its representatives have done (or not done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and 
entirely understandable. 
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint. But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or 
anomalies in what both sides have said and done from time to time. Be that as it may, I have 
to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at things objectively, sometimes 
taking a step back and focussing on the broader picture. Thats what Ive done. Having done 
so, I cant find in Mrs & Mr Ps favour, however much they think I should.
Mrs & Mr P dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Kensington will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions 
a court might impose, Mrs & Mr Ps right to take legal action against Kensington over the subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. They 
wouldnt necessarily have to initiate court proceedings of their own to do that. 
In the event Kensington was to take possession proceedings, Mrs & Mr P could, if they 
wished, ask the court to consider all of the arguments theyve presented here as part of their 
defence. There would then be an opportunity for the court to decide whether, in all those 
circumstances, it would be fair to give possession of the mortgaged property to Kensington.
For completeness, and to be clear, Im not saying Kensington should or will take legal action;
Im merely reminding Mrs & Mr P that it can. There are new circumstances in play as a result 
of the unprecedented effects of the worldwide pandemic, and lenders have to respond fairly 
to the current situations their borrowers present them with. In Mrs & Mr Ps case there is the 
added complication that the mortgage term has now expired (it did so after this complaint 
was referred to us) and the entire mortgage is now overdue for repayment. 
Again, however, I mention that merely for context. My decision here has not considered what 
is happening now; it has only considered what happened between March 2014 up to 
July 2019 when Kensington issued its final response referring Mrs & Mr P to us. But I think I 
would be remiss if I didnt mention here that the courts powers to suspend possession in 
relation to a mortgage that has reached the end of its term are very different from those in a 
situation where the mortgage still has several years to run. I think it might be helpful for Mrs 
& Mr P to take some advice from one of the free debt advisory agencies such as Citizens 
Advice, StepChange or Shelter about their situation. We can provide Mrs & Mr P with 
contact details for those agencies, if theyd like us to.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, or make any order or award against Kensington Mortgage Company Limited. My 
final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman