DRN-3684376
The complaint
Mr H complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim in 
connection with his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Advantage, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include 
claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Advantage responsible for their acts or 
omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a compact diesel-engine hatchback, first 
registered in 2014.
For the year from June 2021, Mr H had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with 
Advantage. The total cost was about £290.00. Any damage claim was subject to an excess 
of £445.00.
Unfortunately, on 3 December 2021, a third party hit Mr Hs car, causing serious damage to 
its front and offside. After he got home, Mr H rang Advantage. It arranged collection of his 
damaged vehicle.
Advantage considered the third party was at fault. Advantage put Mr H in touch with a car 
hire company who supplied a petrol-engine SUV.
In mid-December 2021, Advantage said Mr Hs car was a total loss. After an initial valuation 
of £4,923.70, Advantage increased its valuation on about 10 January 2022 to £5,296.00, 
which Mr H accepted. After deducting the excess of £445.00, Advantage paid Mr H the 
balance of £4,851. He returned the hire car, under protest.
From mid-January 2022, Mr H complained to Advantage about its handling of the claim.
From early February 2022, Mr H got a new car and asked Advantage to put it on cover under 
the policy. Advantage charged an additional premium of £131.70 plus a £20.00 amendment 
fee.
By a final response dated early February 2022, Advantage apologised for charging the 
£20.00 amendment fee, and refunded it with £10.00 compensation. Otherwise it turned down 
Mr Hs complaint. Mr H brought his complaint to us without delay.
He also complained about the first telephone call and subsequent delays. By a final 
response dated early March 2022, Advantage turned down that complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Advantage had acted fairly.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The welcome letter said he would have a courtesy car.
Advantages get- out clause is unreasonable.
Advantage didnt address all the points in his emails.
The bottom line is that he should not be worse off than prior to the accident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the policy documents, I see that Mr H had estimated the value of his car at £4,800.00. 
Any damage estimated at a high proportion of its pre-accident value would make the car a 
total loss.
The welcome letter listed benefits including Replacement car.
But that was subject to the terms of the policy including the following:
" About the replacement car service 
You wont be eligible for a replacement car if your Car is stolen or considered to 
be a Total Loss/write-off 
The replacement car service is only available if you use your Insurers Nominated 
Repairer 
The replacement car will be provided by your Insurers Nominated Repairer 
The service is only available while your Car is being repaired 
The replacement car will usually be a group A vehicle, such as a Ford Ka "
So the policy didnt entitle Mr H to a hire car if his was considered a total loss. Thats not an 
unusual policy term and I cant say its unfair.
The policy terms also included the following:
You, or any insured driver, must: 

Give your Insurer all the information and help they ask for including any 
documentary evidence to back up your claim
Your Insurer has the right to: 
Take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim 
Take legal action over any claim. 
These actions may be taken in your name or the name of any insured person.
So after Advantage had made an outlay to Mr H, it had the right to use his name in 
proceedings against the third party. Thats not an unusual policy term and I cant say its 
unfair.
The policy terms also included the following:
If your Car is declared a Total Loss, and youve already paid the premium in full, no 
refund will be made for the Car in question, even if the cover for the Car is later 
cancelled. This may not apply if your Insurer is able to recover all losses from a Third 
Party. In this case Insurers may sometimes refund the Premium paid and, if they do, 
well pass that refund on to you.If your claim is settled on a Total Loss basis and you dont replace your Car within 30 
days of being issued the settlement payment well cancel your policy
The accident caused Mr H a shock. From the recording of Mr Hs first call, Ive noted a poor-
quality telephone line. I consider that Advantage couldve handled the call better. And I 
consider that this added to Mr Hs distress and inconvenience. But I dont consider that this 
was at a level where it would be fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to pay Mr H 
compensation.
Mr H had the protection of the insurance policy. But that was subject to the policy terms. So 
he might be left with some costs that were not insured. 
Mr H also had a potential claim against the third party, including for uninsured losses. But 
Advantage hadnt agreed to help him recover such losses.
I accept that Mr H didnt get a hire car until about 7 December 2021 and he didnt get a 
choice of vehicle. I accept that, compared to his diesel hatchback, Mr H incurred extra fuel 
costs for the petrol SUV. 
In assessing Mr Hs claim, I wouldnt expect Advantage to take into account the value of the 
fuel in the tank. Mr H accepted the pre-accident valuation of £5,296.00.
Mr H says he had to return the hire car on short notice. But I accept Advantages statement 
that it paid Mr H on 10 January 2022  and he returned the hire car on 18 January 2022.
In any event, Mr H had the benefit of the hire car for long after mid-December 2021 when 
Advantage decided his was a total loss. He had that benefit for weeks longer than the policy 
terms entitled him to. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to pay 
compensation in respect of the hire car.
And after he had to return it, Mr H incurred other transport costs. But the policy didnt cover 
these costs and I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to reimburse them.
From my review of the file, Im satisfied that Advantage progressed Mr Hs claim in a in a 
reasonable time, in a reasonable way and with reasonable communication with Mr H.
In late March 2022, the third partys insurer reimbursed Advantages outlay. The third party 
insurer also reimbursed Mr Hs excess of £445.00. I wouldnt expect the third party insurer to 
reimburse any of his premium and I dont find that it did.
Mr Hs policy was due to expire or be renewed in June 2022, by which time the claim had 
been settled as non-fault on his part.
Mr H has found the claim process unfamiliar and difficult. He hasnt given details of any other 
points that Advantage shouldve answered. My review hasnt found Advantage responsible 
for any unfair treatment or shortcomings at a level that call for compensation. So I dont find 
it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman