DRN-3126633
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, declined their 
application to port their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had a mortgage with Halifax that they took out in 2019. It had a fixed rate of 
interest for five years. And if the mortgage was repaid within that five-year period an early 
repayment charge (ERC) would apply.
Around June 2020, Mr and Mrs R contacted Halifax as they were looking to move home and 
were interested in porting their mortgage. On 25 August 2020 Mr and Mrs R told Halifax 
theyd found a property they wanted to buy.
On 3 September 2020 Mr and Mrs R paid a fee for a valuation to be carried out on behalf of 
Halifax. And I understand this took place a few days later. After the valuation was completed 
Halifax indicated it was willing to lend as requested.
On 17 September 2020, Mr and Mrs Rs solicitors informed Halifax that the vendors who the 
property was being purchased from had only owned the property for a few weeks but were 
selling due to a change in circumstances. They asked for confirmation if this affected 
Halifaxs decision to lend.
Halifax confirmed it was not willing to lend because of this new information. It said its policy 
was that it would not provide a mortgage where the purchased property had been owned for 
less than six months.
Mr and Mrs R obtained a mortgage from another lender and went ahead with the purchase 
of the property. They paid an ERC when redeeming their Halifax mortgage.
Mr and Mrs R complained to Halifax that its decision was unfair. They were unhappy that 
theyd not been made aware of Halifaxs criteria relating to length of ownership sooner. And 
they asked that it refund the valuation fee and the ERC theyd had to pay.
Halifax said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. So, the complaint was referred to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into matters but didnt think Halifax had done anything 
wrong. He said the application to port had been declined fairly, in line with Halifaxs lending 
criteria. He didnt think Halifax was required to set out each of its lending criteria before the 
application was made. And he couldnt say on balance that Halifax shouldve been aware 
sooner that this property would not meet its criteria. So, he felt the valuation fee and ERC 
had been charged correctly and didnt think they should be refunded.
Mr and Mrs R did not agree with the investigators opinion and still felt Halifax had acted 
unfairly. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage offer from 2019 explained that their mortgage could be ported but 
any applications to do so are assessed in line with the lending policy at that time. The 
mortgage offer also explained that if the mortgage were repaid before the end of the fixed 
interest rate period, an ERC would be payable.
Halifax has provided evidence that its lending criteria, at the time of the request to port, 
includes not providing mortgages on properties where the selling party has owned the 
property for less than six months (with certain exceptions). Halifax has explained that this 
criterion is related to money laundering regulations which it must comply with. And I dont 
think this explanation is unreasonable. But in any event, a lender is entitled to decide its own 
criteria. And the circumstances under which it is willing to lend is a matter of Halifaxs 
commercial judgement and not something I can require it to change. 
The property that Mr and Mrs R were purchasing had been owned by the sellers for less 
than six months. And Halifax has shown that it was not covered by any of the acceptable 
exceptions to its policy relating to this. As a result, this application fell outside of Halifaxs 
lending criteria. Mr and Mrs R have said that they think this policy is unfair. But again, Halifax 
is entitled to decide its own lending criteria. 
Mr and Mrs R are also unhappy that this part of Halifaxs lending criteria is not set out in the 
mortgage terms and conditions or on other widely available documents. But I wouldnt 
expect all aspects of Halifax criteria to be publicised, as they are commercially sensitive and 
to do so would potentially leave them open to manipulation.
So, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs R, based on what Ive 
seen, I dont think Halifax made an error or acted unreasonably by declining this application.
Mr and Mrs R proceeded to repay their mortgage. As a result, Halifax charged an ERC, in 
line with the terms of their mortgage. As the application was declined fairly, I cant 
reasonably require Halifax to refund that ERC.
Mr and Mrs R are also unhappy that they paid the cost of a valuation as part of the porting 
application process, which they think couldve been avoided if Halifax had explained its 
criteria around length of ownership sooner. 
A valuation is a common part of a mortgage application. And here the cost was payable by 
Mr and Mrs R. Ive seen evidence that the valuation was correctly carried out, so the service 
paid for was provided. And Im satisfied this was not refundable, if the application ultimately 
didnt go ahead.
As Ive explained, I dont think Halifax is required to make all aspects of its lending criteria 
public. I would expect it to discuss relevant criteria that may apply to an application, where it 
had knowledge that they might do so. But based on what Ive seen, Halifax didnt become 
aware of the ownership status of the property Mr and Mrs R wanted to buy until their solicitor 
informed it, after the valuation had taken place. 
As a result, I dont think Halifax made an error by requiring the valuation here, as it only later 
came to light that the application was outside of its lending criteria. And I havent seen 
anything that leads me to say, on balance, Halifax shouldve been prompted to make further 
enquiries relating to this issue sooner. So as a result, I dont think Halifax needs to refund 
the cost of the valuation here.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman