DRN-1547312
The complaint
Miss K complains that she was unaware there would be an outstanding sum payable when 
Santander Consumer (UK) plc (Santander) agreed to rejection of a car taken out with a fixed 
sum loan agreement. She is also not happy she had to pay for repairs to the car. She would 
like the costs incurred reduced.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here 
again.  Instead Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons: -
Miss Ks fixed sum loan agreement included £3,673.51 of negative equity that 
accrued when the dealership settled a previous finance agreement for part exchange 
of Miss Ks car.  Miss K would have been aware of this sum when she took out her 
agreement. We wouldnt normally expect negative equity to be written off when 
rejection of a car is allowed. So, I think its reasonable to expect this sum to be 
repaid.
Miss K has told us had she been aware of this sum she would have kept the car. I 
cant be sure that would have been the case since the problems Miss K had with the 
car were sufficient for her to decide to reject it.
When Santander agreed to Miss Ks rejection of the car it paid her £500 
compensation in acknowledgement, she was unaware of the negative equity debt 
and for the delay in dealing with her complaint. I think this is a reasonable level of 
compensation in the circumstances.
Miss K has given us invoices totaling £364.76 for work she had done to the car prior 
to rejection.  I agree with our investigator that Miss K should not have to pay for these 
as they related to the issues that led to rejection of her car. I am pleased that 
Santander has agreed to refund this sum.
My final decision
For these reasons my decision is that I uphold Miss Ks complaint and I order Santander 
Consumer (UK) plc to refund Miss K £364.76  for work carried out on her car
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
