DRN-3270845
The complaint
Miss N complains about the valuation offered by Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
following a claim on her motor insurance policy. Shes also unhappy with the service she 
received.
A representative has supported Miss N in bringing this complaint, but for simplicity Ill mainly 
refer to her in this decision.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Advantage are responsible for 
it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
In March 2021 Miss Ns car was unfortunately hit by another car and ended up being written 
off. Advantage offered a valuation of £7,519 which she wasnt happy with, saying a valuation 
of £9,000 would be fairer. She also felt there had been a lack of contact and delays in the 
claim leading to frustration. She was unhappy the email with the offer of £7,519 didnt 
explain how to dispute the offer. And, she wanted her concerns dealt with separately, but 
Advantage insisted on dealing with them all in one. Overall, she felt Advantage were 
completely inept at handling her claim.
In June 2021 Advantage replied to Miss Ns complaint. They said they couldnt identify any 
delays in the claim, the email didnt say how to turn down the offer but she turned it down 
anyway, and it can be easier to have all complaint points addressed in one complaint.
Unhappy with this, Miss N asked us to look into things  reiterating her main issue was about 
the valuation, which Advantage hadnt addressed in their response.
One of our Investigators looked into things, and overall felt Advantage had handled things 
fairly, so wouldnt be asking them to do anything further. He also explained other issues 
raised after Advantages final response letter in June 2021 wouldnt be considered under this 
complaint  and Miss N would have to raise a new complaint.
Miss N didnt accept this outcome, saying she was given several complaint references, but 
wasnt told her concerns would be addressed in one complaint response. She added the 
valuation offer was refused, but a person not in the know might not have realised they could 
do this  and that Advantage didnt tell them the payment could be made and matters could 
be taken further. Advantage only said this after she instigated it. And, for the main issue, she 
still didnt think the valuation was fair and in line with what she found at the time.
So, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Before deciding this complaint, it was noted Miss Ns representative had asked for all the 
information we had to be provided to him. This has since been done, and having done so, he 
said he didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Miss Ns complaint in considerably less detail than she has. If Ive not reflected something 
thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it 
relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but 
merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This 
also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every 
question raised unless I think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Valuation
Itll help to explain that its very difficult to value second-hand cars and it isnt the role of our 
service to value Miss Ns car. But our general approach is that we look to assess whether 
the insurers offer is reasonable.
To do this, we look at the valuations Advantage used when calculating their offer. We usually 
expect insurers to get valuations from motor trade guides  which is what they did. These 
are used for valuing second-hand cars. But well also take into account the evidence 
provided by both parties. This might include engineers reports, information provided by 
dealers and adverts, amongst other things.
We think trade guides are generally more reliable, mainly because their valuations are based
on research across the country and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations. We dont find adverts particularly persuasive as these are essentially 
asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as 
they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices  and therefore provide us with a fair 
market value for the type of car being assessed.
As well as getting information from the trade guides, Advantage also got two adverts 
showing values of £7,385 and £7,669. The first of those cars had 4,000 less miles than 
Miss Ns, and the second around 6,000 less miles. Both cars are similar to Miss Ns and give 
an average figure of £7,527  very close to Advantages offer of £7,519.
Miss N has provided evidence she says showing a car was valued at £7,998, and that car 
dealers arent negotiating their prices currently due to the market for second-hand cars. 
Shes also said a number of features on the car havent been factored into the offer  which 
made her car more desirable. 
But I think its important to reiterate that I cant value Miss Ns car  Im simply looking at 
whether Advantage have made a fair offer. Theyve used the trade guides, plus two adverts 
which appear at least similar to the car Miss N had  and reached a figure of £7,519. This is 
in line with one of the trade guides, and is virtually identical to the adverts. Given that, I think 
Advantage have made a fair offer, and I wont be requiring them to increase it.
 Lack of contact and delays during the claim
From the information Ive seen Advantage were first contacted on 22 March 2021, Miss Ns 
car was deemed a total loss on 25 March 2021, and the offer for the car was made the 
following day. 
Advantage say they have a three day timescale for assessing the car  which was met with 
the report coming in on the third day after the notification. So, I dont think Advantage 
delayed anything unreasonably at this point. 
Ive then looked at the remaining history between then, and 21 June 2021 when the final 
response letter addressing these concerns was issued.
Ive not identified any significant gaps. I can see on occasion a call back wasnt made when 
it should have been, but overall I think Advantage provided a good enough service that I 
wouldnt uphold this element of Miss Ns complaint.
The valuation email not saying how to turn down the offer
Miss Ns concern on this is that the email she received only told her how to accept the offer, 
not how to dispute it.
I cant change Advantages processes, I can only look at the impact its had on their 
customers and if theyve been treated unfairly.
While I understand Miss Ns perspective, I cant see that this has caused her any detriment. I 
say that because she replied to the email, disputing the valuation offered. So, although the 
email didnt say how to dispute it, Miss N did so anyway. 
Addressing complaint points separately
Miss N wanted separate complaints registered for each issue she wanted to raise  rather 
than them all being added to the existing complaint.
Similar to my above thoughts on Advantages processes, I cant change how they wish to 
record additional issues that are linked to an existing complaint, I can only look at the impact.
I can see this approach frustrated Miss N, but I cant see it negatively impacted her ability to 
raise the concerns she wanted to. Looking at the notes, I can see she begun raising 
complaints a few days into the claims handling process and raised more as time went on. 
So, overall, it seems Miss N was able to raise her concerns, and Advantage have looked to 
address them for her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman