DRN-2400978
The complaint
Mr A is complaining about the sale of a whole of life assurance policy by Endsleigh 
Insurances (Brokers) Ltd. 
What happened
Mr A says he was visited at his student accommodation in 1973 by a representative of 
Endsleigh. At the time, he was 21 and soon to be married. He says the representative 
suggested Mr A take out a whole of life assurance policy. This was set up to start on 1 
January 1974, with monthly payments of just over £2.
Mr A says he was given the impression that although his payments into the policy would be 
small he would get a good savings pot from it at some point in the future, so he thought it 
would be a good idea. 
In June 2019, Mr A was reviewing his finances and thought he might as well cash the policy 
in. He was surprised to find out hed receive just under £1,500, having expected significantly 
more than this. 
Mr A complained  saying hed paid more into the policy than he got back. He said he didnt 
expect the surrender value to be less than hed paid into the policy. He said he wouldnt 
have taken out the policy if hed known  but was under pressure from the Endsleigh 
representative and wasnt given any written information or a chance to reflect or reconsider. 
Endsleigh didnt reply to Mr As complaint, so he came to our service. When our investigator 
asked Endsleigh about it, they said they had no records about the sale in 1973 as so many 
years had passed. So, they said, they were unable to investigate Mr As complaint.
Our investigator said there wasnt enough evidence to say that Mr As policy was mis-sold 
and so she didnt uphold Mr As complaint. Mr A wasnt happy with this. He said he thought 
there was a general understanding that these sorts of policies were mis-sold. And he said he 
thought Endsleigh should have kept a record of what theyd done at the time. Mr A asked for 
an ombudsman to review his case  so its come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate itll be a disappointment to Mr A, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres very limited information available to me about the sale of Mr As whole of life policy. I 
have the policy certificate, which shows the monthly premiums and the sum assured. And I 
have Mr As testimony. Ive also seen that Mr As policy provider said it was sold to him by 
Endsleigh. But theres nothing else which documents what was said between Mr A and the 
Endsleigh advisor.
Mr As commented that Endsleigh should have kept their records. But the sale was 46 years 
ago  I dont think its reasonable to expect them to keep records for that long. And its not a 
regulatory requirement.
Ive thought about what was required of businesses selling life assurance in 1973. This was 
before the Financial Services Act came into force in 1988  so there was much less in the 
way of regulation than there is now. Representatives providing advice had three obligations:
a duty not to make negligent mis-statements
a duty to disclose material information, if the representative gave information; and
a duty (if the representative gave advice) to advise with reasonable skill and care.
As part of this, an advisor needed to ensure that the policy was appropriate for the 
consumers needs and circumstances at the time. 
Thinking about the obligations set out above, I havent seen any evidence that the 
representative made negligent mis-statements. In respect of material information, Mr A has 
complained that he wouldnt have taken out the policy if hed known he might receive less 
than hed paid in. So its clear he now considers this material information. But I cant say this 
was material at the time. As a life assurance policy, the primary intention of the cover was 
that Mr As dependents would receive an amount of money in the event of his death. I can 
see the sum assured was disclosed to Mr A  its on his policy certificate. 
Even if I considered that the cash-in value was material information, I havent got any 
information about what Mr A was told about surrendering his policy. So I cant say that the 
representative failed to disclose material information.
Finally, I need to consider whether the representative advised with reasonable skill and care 
and ensured that the policy was appropriate for Mr A. I appreciate he was young at the time, 
but hes told us that he was about to get married. And hes described the premiums as being 
low. So Im satisfied it was an appropriate policy for Mr A to have as it was an affordable way 
of giving his wife-to-be some financial security in the event of his death.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman