DRN-3964794
The complaint
Mr Q complains about recovery action taken by Arrow Global Limited and its agents when 
seeking to recover a debt.
What happened
In early 2021 Mr Q received contact from solicitors acting for Arrow. The solicitors asked 
Mr Q to make contact and discuss arrangements to repay an outstanding debt. Mr Qs 
explained he was unaware of any outstanding debt with Arrow. Mr Q spoke with the 
solicitors in April 2021 but refused to provide personal information to complete the security 
questions. 
At the end of April 2021, the solicitors sent Mr Q notice it had started legal action against him 
on Arrows behalf to recover the outstanding balance. In May 2021 Mr Q spoke with 
solicitors and asked to raise a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) but didnt complete the 
verification process. As a result, the DSAR wasnt completed. Mr Qs explained that despite 
asking for information about the debt, neither Arrow or its solicitors sent him any evidence to 
show how it came about or what it related to. 
Mr Q submitted information to the court and the legal action was stayed. Mr Qs told us the 
court told Arrow to forward evidence concerning the outstanding debt to Mr Q within 28 days 
but no further information was provided. 
Arrow later contacted Mr Q again, requesting repayment, and he raised a complaint. Arrow 
issued a final response and said it had acquired a debt in his name in 2016 and that its 
agents attempted to collect at another address. But as no contact was received Arrows 
agents completed a tracing exercise via the credit reference agencies and found Mr Qs 
details. Arrows solicitors contacted Mr Q about the outstanding debt at the address it traced. 
Arrow said it was limited in the information it could give Mr Q as he declined to complete the 
security questions. 
Arrows final response also advised it had referred the debt to court after no agreement to 
pay was reached and added legal fees to the balance. Arrow confirmed no County Court 
Judgement had been obtained and didnt uphold Mr Qs complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Qs complaint. They didnt think Arrow had 
provided a reasonable level of evidence that linked Mr Q with the debt it was seeking to 
collect. The investigator looked at a copy of Mr Qs credit file but didnt find any links to the 
address where the credit card debt was registered. The investigator noted Arrow had failed 
to send a copy of the credit agreement and upheld Mr Qs complaint. 
The investigator recommended that Arrow should stop pursuing Mr Q for the debt and pay 
him £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Arrow asked to appeal and said it had provided evidence to show it linked Mr Q to the 
account in question. Our investigator didnt agree and asked Arrow to supply further 
supporting evidence but no further information was provided. As Arrow asked to appeal, 
Mr Qs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all of the evidence Arrow has provided in this case. I note we havent been 
given copies of the original credit agreement, statements, default letters notices of 
assignment or any other correspondence that predates Arrows ownership of the debt that 
links it to Mr Q. Arrow says its provided supporting information that shows it correctly linked 
the debt to Mr Q. But Im not persuaded the information on file shows a clear link to Mr Q. 
Arrow has pointed to a copy of an email provided by one of its agents that confirmed the 
trace is likely correct. But no supporting evidence to verify the way the addresses were 
linked has been provided. The screen shot Arrow more recently supplied doesnt show either 
the sale address or the address Arrow found for Mr Q. 
Mr Qs provided a copy of his credit file and I note theres no reference to the address 
registered when the account was sold to Arrow. Taking all the available evidence into 
account, I havent been persuaded Arrow has demonstrated its fairly pursuing Mr Q for the 
outstanding balance of the debt its seeking to collect. As a result, I agree with the 
investigator that Mr Qs complaint should be upheld. 
As Im not satisfied Arrows provided reasonable evidence that shows Mr Q is the borrower, 
Im going to tell it to stop chasing him for the outstanding balance. Im satisfied the situation 
has caused Mr Q an unreasonable level of trouble and upset, including being referred to the 
courts. So Im also going to award £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr Q. 
In my view, that figure fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr Q. Im also going 
to tell Arrow to ensure theres no impact to Mr Qs credit file. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Arrow Global Limited to settle as 
follows: 
- Cease pursuing Mr Q for the debt in question
- Ensure theres no impact to Mr Qs credit file
- Pay Mr Q £250 for the distress and inconvenience causedUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman