DRN-3136016
The complaint
Mr W complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) declined a claim under his home 
insurance.
What happened
Mr W had a Tesco home insurance policy. In May 2021, he discovered water had come 
though his roof causing damage to a bedroom ceiling and carpet. His builder made some 
emergency repairs to the roof tiles. Mr W made a claim on his home insurance. 
Tesco appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyors report said the cause of 
damage was, Defective roof tiles causing the rainwater to penetrate into the building during 
heavy downpours. More specifically, he said the tiles appear to have been frost attacked 
over the winter and cracked. The surveyor told Mr W his policy wouldnt cover the damage 
to the roof but would cover the water damage inside his home. He estimated the cost of 
these repairs at about £600. 
However, Tesco then declined the claim. It told Mr W that because the damage to the roof 
was caused by wear and tear, the damage to the roof and the bedroom werent covered by 
his policy. It offered Mr W £50 to apologise for its surveyor misinforming him.
Mr W was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He wants Tesco to 
honour its initial offer to settle his claim and pay compensation for misleading him. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He found that 
the damage wasnt covered by Mr Ws policy, so he didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Tesco to decline the claim. He was satisfied that its £50 offer to apologise for its surveyors 
mistake was fair.
Mr W disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Mr W asked us to fine Tesco for misleading him. That isnt something that this service 
can do. Instead, that would be a matter for the UKs financial regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
Like most polices, Mr Ws cover only makes Tesco liable for damage caused by certain 
insured events. The damage needs to be caused by one of the insured events listed in his 
policy. 
Page 14 of Mr Ws policy booklet shows hes covered for loss or damage caused by a storm. 
The policy booklet defines a storm as: A single violent weather event with wind speeds 
exceeding 55mph, and/or snowfall exceeding 30cm in depth within a 48 hour period, and/or 
torrential rainfall at the rate of at least 25mm per hour. 
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions we ask: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed.
So the first thing Ive got to consider is: were there storm conditions on or around the date of 
the claim? 
The local weather records for the area show that neither the wind speeds nor rainfall in May 
2021 met the policy definition of a storm. Ive also checked the Met Offices website and its 
information for the 2020/21 storm season. This doesnt show any named storms hitting the 
UK in May 2021. I dont doubt that there were periods of bad weather during this time, but I 
havent seen anything to support the presence of a one-off storm event. 
This means Im satisfied that the weather conditions immediately before Mr W discovered 
the damage to his home dont meet the policy definition of a storm. So I dont think it was 
unfair for Tesco to reject his claim on that basis.
Mr Ws policy documents show that he was also covered for accidental damage to his home. 
Ive thought about whether Tesco should have settled his claim under that part of his policy. 
However, there are exclusions to that cover, set out in both the policy booklet and the 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). These include:
Damage caused by frost.
Damage caused by water entering the home.
Loss or damage that occurs gradually over time or by wear and tear. 
Im not totally persuaded by Tescos conclusion that the damage was caused by frost. The 
surveyor took photos of the roof using a telescopic camera pole  which I dont think is 
unreasonable  and inspected the internal damage to ceiling and walls in the bedroom. 
However, he didnt go onto the roof or inspect the areas of damage around the tiles that Mr 
Ws builder replaced. So I dont really see how he could conclude the damage was caused 
by frost. 
But the other two exclusions are clear and, in my opinion, are reasonable. Based on those, I 
dont think the claim for the interior water damage would be payable under the accidental 
damage cover in Mr Ws policy.
Mr W says Tesco agreed to pay the claim and it isnt acceptable for it now to refuse to pay 
out. 
I understand why Mr W is frustrated. However, Im satisfied that this was an unfortunate 
mistake by the surveyor which Tesco spotted and rectified very quickly. The surveyor told  
Mr W he was covered on 1 June; Tesco told him this was wrong the following afternoon. I 
havent seen anything to suggest Mr W had arranged and paid for the repairs by the time 
Tesco told him he wasnt covered, so I dont think he incurred any financial loss because of 
the surveyors error. I think Tescos offer of £50 to apologise for this is fair.
For the reasons above, I dont think Tesco acted unreasonably when it declined Mr Ws 
claim. I think its £50 offer to apologise for its surveyors mistake is fair. If Tesco hasnt done so already, it should pay this to Mr W. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman