DRN-1344749
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) unfairly delayed 
recording his credit card account as in default. He says it also recorded incorrect information 
on his credit file in October, November and December 2013.
What happened
Mr C has a credit card with Barclaycard. He says he missed a payment in October 2013. But 
Barclaycard didnt record his account and as being in default until September 2014. He says 
that it should have defaulted the account after three to six months missed payments.
Barclaycard said that it incorrectly recorded missed payments on Mr Cs credit file In 
October, November and December 2013, and January 2014 when he had made payments.
Mr C says as a result of what happened he was declined credit and was forced to take more 
expensive borrowing. He says that this has caused him financial difficulty and mental health 
problems. Mr C adds that he was unhappy with the way that Barclaycard dealt with him 
when he complained. 
Our investigator didnt think the default had been recorded incorrectly. He said that the first 
missed payment was March 2014, so it was correct to record the default in September 2014. 
The investigator said Barclaycard should pay Mr C £150 to reflect the incorrect information it 
recorded on his credit file between October and December 2014. But he didnt consider that 
was the sole cause of the difficulty Mr C had in obtaining credit.
Barclaycard didnt accept what the investigator said. And neither did Mr C. He said 
Barclaycard told him that it had misreported information in October, November and 
December 2013  but the investigator said the first missed payment was March 2014. Mr C 
said this incorrect information would clearly have affected his ability to obtain credit.
Mr C said he disagreed that Barclaycard hadnt used bullying tactics during his complaint 
call. He said that they threatened to close his new credit card account because it wasnt 
aware of the previous account. Mr C said that it should have known about it from his 
application and credit file. 
Mr C said the £150 compensation didnt reflect the impact on him and would not punish 
Barclaycard so that it didnt make the same mistakes again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has provided a copy of his credit file from 2019. That shows that he missed payments 
on his Barclaycard from October 2013 until September 2014 when Barclays recorded the 
account as being in default. But the evidence Barclays has given us shows that the account 
was actually up to date until February 2014, with a missed payment in March 2014. 
Barclays has an obligation to record true and accurate information on its customers credit 
files. Usually, a default would be recorded where an account is three to six months in 
arrears. Based on the information available to me, Barclays did that. So I dont consider it 
was unreasonable to record the default in September 2014.
The information recorded between October 2013 and February 2014 on Mr Cs credit file by 
Barclays was wrong. So I need to decide what is a fair and reasonable way for Barclays to 
put that right. The starting point for me is to put Mr C back in the position he would have 
been in had Barclays not made a mistake. Barclays has already agreed to remove the 
record of the incorrect missed payments between October 2013 and January 2014. It ought 
to have removed the missed payment from February 2014 too. But that has fallen off Mr Cs 
credit file now as it was more than six years ago. So I dont consider Barclays needs to 
amend his credit file any further.
I understand the impact that this matter has had on Mr C. But its important to note Barclays 
mistake was recording incorrect information between October 2013 and February 2014. The 
information recorded after that (including the default) is likely to have had a much greater 
impact on Mr Cs ability to obtain credit. I think it is difficult for me to reasonably conclude 
that Mr Cs difficulties have been caused by the incorrect information recorded by Barclays 
rather than the later conduct of the account. And I havent been given any persuasive 
evidence that Mr C had applications for credit declined between October 2013 and February 
2014 that were as a result of the incorrect information. 
I note Mr Cs points about the way he was dealt with when he complained. But I can only 
look at complaints about certain things  and complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. So 
I cant decide if Barclays handled Mr Cs complaint fairly. It has, however, provided evidence 
that it suspends all the credit card accounts where a borrower has defaulted in the last six 
years. It has explained that until Mr C complained, it hadnt linked the defaulted account and 
the open account, as Mr C had used a different address to open the new account. So it 
appears to have suspended the new account for legitimate reasons.Putting things right
Overall, I consider the investigators recommendation of £150 is a fair amount to reflect the 
inconvenience Mr C has suffered in trying to sort this matter out and in any worry the 
incorrect information has caused him. But it is not intended to compensate him for all of the 
difficulties he has set out, as I cant say they were as a result of the mistake Barclays has 
made here. Nor is it intended to punish Barclays or act a deterrent. I dont have the power to 
award compensation for those reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank Plc should pay Mr C £150 for any trouble and upset 
he has experienced as a result of this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman