DRN-3957131
The complaint
Ms A and Mr J complain because QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) proportionately settled their claim 
following a fire at their home.
Reference to QIC includes its agents.
What happened
Ms A and Mr J took out a Home Insurance policy online to cover their buildings and contents 
with QIC in May 2021. In November 2021 there was a catastrophic fire at their property and 
Ms A and Mr J submitted a claim. When validating the claim, QIC said that Ms A and Mr J 
had misrepresented the cost of replacing the contents in their home when they took out the 
policy. QIC considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which QIC says 
entitles it to only pay a proportion of the total claim.
Ms A and Mr J dont agree. They say they made a typographical error. But they also say the 
policy they had provides them with enough cover to replace the contents in their house. So, 
no proportional settlement should apply. An investigator at our service reviewed the 
complaint and said QIC hadnt done anything wrong by paying a proportion of the claim only. 
Ms A and Mr J dont agree with the investigator and theyve asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 January 2023. That provisional 
decision is below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning on 
upholding it. Ill explain why.
QIC says Ms A and Mr J failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when they told it how much it would cost to replace all the contents in their home. QICs 
deemed this a careless misrepresentation and it has offered to pay a proportion of the total 
claim only.
The issue I need to decide is whether QIC has acted fairly and reasonably in applying the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) to the settlement 
of Ms A and Mr Js claim. (I note that QIC has referenced the Insurance Act 2015 in its final 
response, which is incorrect). My role allows me to make a decision based on what I believe 
to be fair and reasonable taking into account all the circumstances of the complaint. And, 
having done so, I think the complaint should be upheld. 
Ive looked at the question that Ms A and Mr J were asked online. They were asked How 
much would it cost to replace all the contents in your home, including valuables? Ms A and 
Mr J said £10,000. 
Having considered the question asked, I think Ms A and Mr J are being asked to give their 
opinion or an estimate on what they think it might cost to replace the contents of their house. 
After all, until such action actually needs to happen the precise cost of replacing their 
contents would be unknown. So, given that an opinion is being requested, and theres no 
suggestion Ms A and Mr J acted dishonestly, I dont think that can amount to a 
misrepresentation. So, its not appropriate to consider CIDRA here. Our approach in this 
type of scenario would be to think about whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, 
bearing in mind the full purchasing journey, including any questions asked and information 
provided.
Given the evidence Ive seen, £10,000 doesnt seem like an appropriate estimate or opinion. 
Ms A and Mr J say that the £10,000 figure provided by them as a cost to replace their 
contents was an honest typographical error. And they argue that this figure shouldnt matter 
because they say even though an error was made, this £10,000 figure was not used by QIC 
to underwrite the policy. Ms A and Mr J argue that this figure was used alongside the other 
estimate figures they provided to QIC to propose various insurance products and they were 
required to choose one. 
Ms A and Mr J say they had a normal customer journey through the sales process and were 
given the option to take either a silver policy or a bronze policy. Bronze has contents 
cover up to £60k. Silver has contents cover up to £75k. 
They chose the Silver product which provides £500,000 for buildings cover, £75,000 for 
contents cover and £100,000 to cover alternative accommodation. They say having been 
offered and having accepted contents cover for £75,000 they had no need to revert to QIC to 
highlight the error theyd made by erroneously presenting £10,000 as the value to replace 
the contents in their home. They say that in their honest opinion, having received and read 
the insurance schedule they believed they had insured their contents for £75,000 and they 
say this represented a reasonable estimate of the value of the contents in their home. Ms A 
and Mr J have quoted from Economides v Commercial Assurance Co Plc and argue that 
there was no obligation on them to take steps to provide an exact valuation of their contents 
at the time they took out the policy. They argue their only duty is to provide an honest 
estimate. 
I agree that the figure of £10,000 that was given as an opinion or estimate was not a 
reasonable estimate. And I can see that QIC do provide a pop-up box on its website at the 
point this question is asked explaining whats required. But I note that Ms A and Mr J say the 
figure they had entered was an honest mistake. And Im persuaded by what theyve said. 
They say they did realise theyd made an error, but they say this error was immaterial as 
when they looked at the insurance schedule, they noted that under the heading contents 
information the contents sum insured is £75,000. 
And I agree. Looking at the policy schedule provided I think it gives the impression that Ms A 
and Mr J had cover for up to £75k of contents. It doesnt clearly convey that Ms A and Mr J 
only had cover for £10k, or that they needed to estimate the value of all their items to decide 
whether £75k is enough. I think any diligent consumer would read contents sum insured on 
the schedule and believe they had cover up to £75,000. And in the context of the full 
purchasing journey I think it was reasonable for the Ms A and Mr J to think they had cover of 
£75k, and they acted reasonably based on that understanding. I think they reasonably 
understood that the answer they gave to the question, led them to receiving £75k in contents 
cover and they saw no need to update the £10k figure. The only other option they say that 
was presented was Bronze cover for £60k, and this wasnt chosen. There was no further 
mention of contents replacement of £10k only. So, Im satisfied, given the policy documentation and the overall purchasing journey that Ms A and Mr J believed they had 
cover up to £75k. 
The next question is whether it was reasonable to estimate £75,000 for the contents of Ms A 
and Mr Js house? Its clear theres a disagreement over what is a reasonable cost to 
replace the contents of the house. Ive seen numerous different estimates on file, £82,001 
for fire damaged contents only, and a valuation of all contents from QIC for £108,764.97. Ms 
A and Mr J say they are willing to accept they may have slightly underestimated the 
replacement cost of their contents at £75,000, and now that theyve set out a detailed 
inventory of contents they say their contents should be valued at £89,728.81. QIC says that 
in light of the situation, its agreed to stop the value at risk at £100k.
So, looking at this I think the most reasonable estimate is between £75k and £100k. And 
QIC has told us that if Ms A and Mr J had cover up to £100k for contents it wouldve sold 
them a Gold policy for a higher premium. As the reasonable estimate is likely over £75k but 
likely under £100k, our approach would be to say that QIC can proportionately settle the 
contents claim only according to the amount of premium paid vs amount that should have 
been paid for the policy with the higher contents cover. 
So, in short, CIDRA doesnt apply here. I think that QIC need to settle the contents only part 
of the claim proportionally as Ive set out above.  And as CIDRA doesnt apply and there is 
no buildings or alternative accommodation misrepresentation alleged, these shouldnt suffer 
a proportionate settlement. This means the buildings and alternative accommodation claims 
should be unaffected and paid in full, not proportionally. 
Ms A and Mr J have also raised the financial and emotional impact of this claim. In response 
to our investigators view Ms A and Mr J said theyd raised issues over the conduct of QIC 
and its lack of support to a vulnerable family, which has not been addressed. Theyve also 
raised the lack of provision of comparable alternative accommodation and other handling 
concerns.
Our investigator said that these issues hadnt been dealt with in QICs final response and 
suggested that Ms A and Mr J should raise a separate complaint. 
However, Ms A and Mr J have since advised that in their letter dated 31 January 2022, they 
did highlight these issues, and this letter was sent before the final response. As such, QIC 
are aware of the issues. It just hasnt dealt with them. But I will deal with them here.
It was weeks before Christmas and this family of five, with three children all with different 
special needs diagnosis were rendered homeless. The letter to our service says the absence 
of a full and proper payment of the claim meant Ms A and Mr J had to borrow from lenders, 
friends and family. They say this shortfall meant their alternative accommodation wasnt 
suitable for their family and they say the claims process was stressful and QIC didnt treat 
them very well even with their vulnerabilities. They even say they had to source their own 
builders for emergency repairs.
I acknowledge this was a very distressing situation for the whole family. But I can only look 
and consider whether QICs actions, or lack of action made things worse at this distressing 
time.  A lot of what happened occurred because there was a proportional settlement being 
paid. And as Ive now provisionally decided that this approach was incorrect, Im minded to 
ask QIC to pay some compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
In terms of having to source builders and complete emergency repairs, QIC has advised that 
its local network contractor had experienced an outbreak of Covid19, and that after a 
discussion with Ms A she agreed to liaise with another local contractor to make the roof safe and watertight. This initially took two weeks and then it took a further three weeks to 
complete the work. I know this sounds like a long time, but Im conscious that QIC did pay 
Ms A for this work, and also that the emergency work happened over the Christmas period. 
So, Im not inclined to find that the delays were unreasonable. Once the property was made 
safe, the scope of works and itinerary of contents was provided to QIC in approximately six 
days. So, again I dont find that there were unreasonable delays.
But I think its clear that there was major distress and inconvenience suffered by Ms A, Mr J 
and their family because QIC only paid a proportional settlement. I understand that this was 
a really distressful time for everyone, and I empathise with everything that the family has 
been through. As I think QIC handled this claim incorrectly Ive considered an award where 
the impact of a mistake has caused considerable distress, upset and worry and significant 
inconvenience and disruption that needed a lot of extra effort to sort out. As such, alongside 
asking QIC to now reconsider the claim in full, Im also planning on recommending that QIC 
pays £750 in compensation to Ms A and Mr J for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent my provisional decision on 13 January 2023.
QIC hasnt responded to my provisional decision. 
Ms A and Mr J have responded via a third-party representative. Ms A and Mr J have made 
two points based on my provisional decision. The first one is to do with the proportionate 
settlement of the contents claim. The second is clarification on whether 8% interest is due on 
any outstanding payments to be made.
Ms A and Mr J say that as I determined that CIDRA doesnt apply, any contents payment 
made should be made based on the contents average clause as per the policy terms and 
conditions and not a proportional settlement based on premium paid.
I appreciate and understand the point Ms A and Mr J are making. And whilst the average 
clause term is in the policy and clearly worded, the key to this is that both parties are treated 
fairly and reasonably. So, we have to weigh up what it says in the policy terms and consider 
what is fair. 
As I set out above our approach would be to say that QIC can proportionately settle the 
contents claim only according to the amount of premium paid vs amount that should have 
been paid for the policy with the higher contents cover. Paying a percentage of the premium 
yet possibly receiving a higher percentage of the claim value doesnt sound fair. The impact 
on the insurer of Ms A and Mr J providing an unreasonably low estimate was only receiving 
a percentage of the premium it should have done. So, a reasonable remedy is for the 
consumer to only receive that same percentage of the claim value in return. As such QIC 
should settle the contents only part of the claim proportionally, based on the difference 
between the premium Ms A and Mr J paid and the premium they shouldve paid for £100k of 
cover. 
Further to this the buildings and alternative accommodation claims should be unaffected and 
paid in full for the reasons Ive set out above. And as per the separate correspondence I sent 
to both parties, 8% simple interest should be added to all monetary claim amounts that 
remain outstanding. This 8% interest should be calculated from the time the original settlement was made to the date of payment by QIC. QIC should also pay Ms A and Mr J 
£750 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused as set out above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Limited to:
settle the contents only part of the claim proportionally based on the proportion of 
premium paid vs what shouldve been paid.
settle buildings and alternative accommodation claims in full.
8% simple interest should be added to all of these amounts from the date the initial 
part of the claim was paid, up to the date QIC make the settlement.
Pay Ms A and Mr J £750 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
for the reasons Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman