DRN-1397885
Complaint
Mrs E says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs E bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a store card. It covered her in 
case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Es store card application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional features. It gave 
a brief overview of what the policy was for and what it cost. There was a box Mrs E could 
sign if she wanted to buy PPI, or which could be left blank if she didnt want it. Mrs E signed 
specifically for PPI, separately for signing for the store card as a whole. So I think that AXA 
made Mrs E aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at 
the time.
AXA didnt give Mrs E tailored advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. They also didnt have to give her information about competitors policies. They 
did have to give Mrs E enough information to decide if this PPI policy was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs E about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs E chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like she 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. 
Mrs E didnt have any other significant cover or staff benefits, and only had limited savings. 
I understand Mrs E was entitled to certain government benefits, but they were not an 
alternative cover to PPI or a replacement for her salary. I also understand her friends and 
family may have been happy to help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to 
help when needed. And this policy meant she wouldnt have to ask other people to repay her 
store card. So the policy could have really been useful for Mrs E in case something went 
wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs E could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have 
put her off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman