DRN-2045609
The complaint
Mr D complains that IG Index Limited unfairly closed his account. He complains that this 
action forced him to transfer his holdings to another broker and gave him an unreasonably 
tight timeframe to do so. Mr D complains that this transfer caused him a financial loss.  
What happened
Mr D had a share dealing account with IG. In May 2020 Mr D complained to IG about certain 
shares he held. In its final response, IG didnt uphold his complaint about those shares. And 
it took the opportunity to give him 30 days notice that it was closing his account. It relied on 
the terms and conditions applicable to the account which said that it could terminate or 
suspend this agreement and any arrangements hereunder with you by giving you 30 days 
written notice. It explained that after 30 days, Mr D would be unable to open new trades and 
his account would be to set to closings only. It also said that within 90 days of the notice, 
Mr D was required to instruct IG as to what he wanted to happen to his holdings (whether 
they should be transferred or sold). If no instructions were received within that timeframe, 
then IG would reserve the right to dispose of his assets and transfer the proceeds to an 
account in his name. 
Mr D complained. He raised detailed queries about his portfolio and specific issues around 
some of his holdings and dividend payments. He also fundamentally disagreed with IGs 
decision, and considered he was being penalised for having raised complaints about IGs 
service in the past. He disagreed that the terms that he originally signed up to contained the 
termination clause IG referred to, and disputed that he had seen or agreed to any updated 
terms. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint, but didnt consider it should be 
upheld. In short, the investigator concluded that IGs terms and conditions allowed it to 
terminate Mr Ds account without reason by giving 30 days notice. He explained that this 
was a common term in these types of account. He acknowledged Mr Ds submission that he 
hadnt received the updated terms, but he considered that even if he accepted that, it 
wouldnt change his findings because the termination clause was virtually the same in the 
original terms and conditions. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. In short, he said:
His original agreement with IG didnt include the termination clause, and therefore 
any/all later amended versions of the same core termination provision are not valid. 
Even if such clause was applicable, it could only be implemented reasonably and 
fairly  and thats not what happened in his case. 
The investigator shouldve taken into account the only reason IG implemented the 
clause was because he complained about its service. He said that this wasnt fair 
because he was clearly entitled to complain under the terms and so his account 
shouldnt have been closed because of this. 
There was therefore clear evidence that IG had acted unreasonably and vindictively 
in response to his previous complaints, some of which had been upheld by this 
service, and the investigator shouldve taken account of this. 
There was some further correspondence between the investigator and the consumer, largely 
covering the same points. So as agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid I dont have much to add to what the investigator has already told Mr D. Despite 
his submissions to the contrary, Im satisfied Mr D accepted and therefore ought reasonably 
to have read and understood the terms and conditions of the account when he opened it with 
IG. Clause 26(3) of these terms allowed IG to give Mr D 30 days notice that it intended to 
close the account. 
I acknowledge there have been updates to the terms and conditions, as is often the case 
with these types of accounts, and I consider that it was Mr Ds responsibility to be aware of 
these changes and decide whether or not to accept them  bearing mind that not accepting 
the updates to the original agreement wouldve involved the account being suspended and 
Mr D having to transfer elsewhere anyway. 
For simplicity, Ive only referred to the original terms and conditions because for the 
purposes of this decision, the wording of the relevant termination clause has not materially 
changed. 
Whilst I understand why Mr D considers IG shouldnt have terminated his account, I dont 
agree that it has done so unfairly or unreasonably. Ultimately, as the investigator has pointed 
out, IG offers a trading platform and it is entitled to decide who it does business with. The 
term itself is clear that all IG needs to do is provide the required notice, which it did in this 
case. So, in short, IG has acted in line with the terms when giving Mr D notice that his 
account would be closed. 
I acknowledge Mr D feels strongly that this decision was vindictive and taken off the back of 
a number of previous complaints he had raised about IGs service. Ive considered Mr Ds 
submissions about this very carefully. Mr D had clearly been dissatisfied with a number of 
aspects of IGs offering. To be clear, Mr D was absolutely entitled to raise complaints about 
IGs service, and expect those complaints to be investigated and resolved in line with the 
regulators rules  or otherwise investigated by this service as I understand happened on 
occasion. But I also consider that IG was equally entitled to re-evaluate whether it was best 
placed to continue to provide a service to a customer who, based on his communications 
with it, appeared to expect a service which IG was evidently unable to consistently provide to 
his satisfaction. 
Given this background and circumstances, Im not persuaded this was a vindictive decision. 
Instead Im persuaded that IG simply concluded, given the several complaints previously 
raised, that it would not be able to provide Mr D a service that met his expectations. In the 
particular circumstances of Mr Ds case, and given the applicable terms, Im not persuaded 
IGs decision was in any way unreasonable or unfair. 
All that being the case, I agree that such decisions require careful implementation. 
So I would expect IG to treat its customers fairly by ensuring that consumers be given 
sufficient time to take mitigating action once the notice of termination has been given. And, 
where customers find themselves particularly exposed to market risk (for example as in Mr Ds case given the size of his portfolio), I would expect IG to ensure it remained flexible 
when implementing its decision. 
In Mr Ds case, Im not persuaded IG has implemented its decision to close his account 
unfairly. I dont agree with Mr D that IG gave him a particularly tight timeframe to take the 
relevant action. IGs notice gave him:
30 days during which his account would operate as normal. 
At the end of the 30 days, a further 60 days in which Mr D would be able to only 
close trades, transfer out and provide future instructions to IG. 
In subsequent correspondence IG also confirmed that Mr D wouldnt be charged for holding 
cash or delisted stock in his IG account. 
Im not persuaded these terms were particularly onerous, as Mr D essentially had three 
months to decide where to transfer his account to. Im not clear why a longer timeframe 
wouldve helped, and Ive seen insufficient evidence to conclude on balance that in the 
particular circumstances of Mr Ds case the above timeframe was unfair. 
In any event, I can see that in subsequent correspondence with IG, it has also agreed 
actions, beyond its normal process, which are specific to Mr Ds particular circumstances  
Im referring here to the issues regarding dividend payments not yet paid to his account, 
lines of stock currently delisted and having a named contact at IG for future instructions 
around transfers among other specific issues. 
Given all this, Im not persuaded theres more that IG couldve done to facilitate Mr Ds 
transfer to another broker while minimising the risk to his holdings. In that regard, I note Mr D 
has mentioned the possibility of IGs decision to close his account causing him a financial 
loss  but Ive not seen any evidence of such a loss.
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account 
allowed IG to terminate its relationship with him by giving him 30 days notice  which it did. 
Ive considered the overall notice period it gave Mr D, as well as the way it accommodated 
Mr Ds specific circumstances in relation to how his holdings would be transferred, and Ive 
concluded that it didnt treat him unfairly or unreasonably. For these reasons, Im satisfied IG 
has done nothing wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 
17 September 2020.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman