DRN-3752922
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as C complains Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined
their buildings insurance claim.
Mr M has brought the complaint on behalf of C. So, for ease, I will refer to him below.
All references to Aviva also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here.
Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 26 September 2022. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has provided detailed submissions to support Cs complaint. I want to assure him Ive
read and considered everything hes provided carefully. However, my findings focus on what
I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt intended as a
discourtesy, but the purpose of my intended decision isnt to address every single point the
parties have raised or to answer every question asked.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by C, and Aviva, and reach what I think is a
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
A definition of a storm is not provided in the policy. But Avivas report provided information
showing wind speeds of up to 54mph around the time the roof damage presented itself.
From checking weather records in Cs postcode at the time the damage was reported to
have happened, I can see wind speeds of around 48 mph were recorded. And, there was a
named storm around the same time, which affected the region C is situated in.
So, I do think adverse weather conditions were present. Ive therefore considered whether
this adverse weather couldve caused the damage reported.
Damage has been reported to the roof, where fixings have come away and damaged a
concourse below. It is possible for high winds to cause tiles and fixings to come away from
roofs. But I also need to consider if the weather conditions were the main or dominant cause
of the damage.
Aviva provided a report, including a number of photos from surveying the roof. Its report
notes a number of defects throughout the roof, such as missing mortar, moss and vegetation
growth, slippage and cracked roof tiles. In the area specific to the damage being claimed for,
Aviva noted there was heavy moss growth on mortar and tile slippage. Avivas report
concludes the damage has occurred due to gradual deterioration and not the adverse
weather.
Having reviewed the photos available of the roof, I do note its general condition throughout
does appear to be consistent with what Aviva has said in its report. For example, photos
show the condition of the chimney stack to be poor  with moss growth and missing mortar.
Mr M has pointed out that C has regularly maintained the roof, having it inspected annually
by a roofer. So, he asserts any issues would have previously been raised and addressed.
But Ive not seen any information to support what observations or maintenance has been
carried out to the roof previously. So, I havent seen anything which confirms this. I would
also query why, if that had been the case, so many issues with the roof have now been
highlighted.
Mr M has also questioned why previous adverse weather or storms have not served to
highlight the issues with the roof. But by nature, gradual deterioration is as the name
suggests, gradual. And the deterioration has become sufficient to the extent the issues have
presented themselves as and when they did.
Ive also considered what Mr M has said about the insurance principle of proximate cause.
Mr M has said in the well-established principle of English Law that where there are
concurrent proximate causes, if one cause is an insured peril and the other is not insured the
policy should respond in full. Mr M thinks even if wear and tear is the cause of the damage,
the proximate cause was a storm and without an exclusion of wear and tear the claim should
be met in full.
Ive considered this but it first must be shown the claim falls under one of the insured perils
the policy covers. So, if Im persuaded storm force winds were present, but not damage
caused by storm, we only have damage caused by wear and tear or gradual deterioration.
So, there arent concurrent causes here. And that means the principle set out in the law isnt
relevant in this case.
I appreciate Mr M says the damage happened around the time of the storm and means the
storm must have been the cause of the damage.
But, at this service were interested in the underlying cause of the damage. And for the
reasons given above; Im more persuaded the damage has occurred in the way Aviva has
said. And the storm just highlighted it.
If the deterioration and wear and tear wasnt present, Im not persuaded the weather
conditions recorded wouldve caused the type of damage.
And as it hasnt been shown that the claim falls under one of the insured perils the policy
covers, I think its fair for Aviva to decline this part of the claim.
So, for these reasons I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva responded to say it had no further comments.
Mr M didnt agree with my provisional findings and has provided a further, detailed response. 
I confirm I have read and considered this response in full. I wont detail this in full here, but in summary Mr M feels I have misinterpreted some of what C has said in submitting its claim  
for example that their roof was inspected annually by a roofer, or the damage happened 
around the time of the storm. 
Mr M reiterated that the storm was the only true proximate cause of the damage. He said 
even if gradual deterioration had occurred, the only time it presented itself was during a 
storm, which is an insured peril under the terms of the policy.
Mr M said he believed my provisional findings, particularly relating to the underlying cause of 
the damage, were wrong in law.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr M has said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my reasoning. 
Our service isnt a court of law. While we take relevant law and industry practice into 
consideration, we make decisions on a fair and reasonable basis  which itself is set out in 
the DISP resolution rules found in the FCA handbook.
When considering storm claims. Our service considers three key questions.
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage has said to 
have happened?
As I set out in my provisional findings, A definition of a storm is not provided in the policy. 
But Avivas report provided information showing wind speeds of up to 54mph around the 
time the roof damage presented itself.
Weather records in Cs postcode at the time the damage was reported showed wind speeds 
of around 48 mph. And, there was a named storm around the same time, which affected the 
region C is situated in.
So, I do think adverse weather conditions were present.
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
It is possible for high winds to cause tiles and fixings to come away from roofs.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
As I set out in my provisional findings Avivas report notes a number of defects throughout 
the roof, such as missing mortar, moss and vegetation growth, slippage and cracked roof 
tiles. In the area specific to the damage being claimed for Aviva noted there was heavy moss 
growth on mortar and tile slippage. 
There are extensive photos of the roof and its general condition throughout does appear to 
be consistent with what Aviva has said in its report. For example, photos show the condition 
of the chimney stack to be poor  with moss growth and missing mortar.
Mr M has clarified that a roofer cleared the gutter, typically annually, and would point out 
anything they could see, from a relatively low level, that required repairs. And, that nothing 
was pointed out in recent years.  Ive not seen any information to support what observations were made, and as Mr M has 
said  this wasnt an inspection. So, Im not persuaded this means there wasnt the presence 
of any issues or defects with the roof that have now been highlighted in Avivas report.
So, my reasoning remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, Im more 
persuaded the damage has occurred in the way Aviva has said. And the storm just served to 
highlight them.
And as it hasnt been shown that the claim falls under one of the insured perils the policy
covers, I think its fair for Aviva to decline this part of the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman