DRN-2072521
The complaint
Mr V complains about the service he received in a branch of TSB Bank plc when he tried to 
transfer some money to buy a car.
What happened
Mr V has a current account with TSB and went to his local branch to make a transfer as he 
wanted to buy a classic car. This was a private purchase he was making through an online 
market place. However, Mr V felt that TSBs representative was obstructive as they refused 
to make the transfer until it had been confirmed that the vehicle existed and was as 
advertised. Mr V complained that the transaction had been dealt with inappropriately, and 
hed been treated in a patronising way. 
He said that motor vehicles were advertised on a first come, first served basis. Hed agreed 
to buy the car but had not been able to pay a deposit to secure it and so the seller couldve 
sold it to another interested party. He said the car was a very rare, historic vehicle and he 
was unlikely to have been able to purchase a comparable car if he was unable to buy this 
one. Mr V said he had bought and sold cars for many years but was treated in a 
condescending manner. He said the representative had only agreed to make the transfer he 
wanted when he was called by the vehicle recovery driver hed arranged to collect the car 
from the seller, and they confirmed that it existed. Mr V felt that TSB should pay him 
compensation of £250. 
TSB said that its representative was following the banking protocol to help identify where 
customers may be in the process of being defrauded. TSB said that making such a payment 
would be unusual for Mr Vs use of the account, and hed said the transfer was to buy a car 
he hadnt actually seen so this raised concerns. It said its representative had suggested that 
Mr V wait until the recovery service arrived at the sellers address and could confirm the car 
was as described.  It apologised that Mr V had felt hed been caused inconvenience and had 
his time wasted, as this wasnt its intention. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that it was reasonable for a bank to put security processes in place to protect both it and 
its customers. The investigator acknowledged that Mr V had been inconvenienced and had 
been left feeling anxious about making the payment to the seller of car, and she said TSB 
had apologised for this. Mr V had been able to make the transfer, and the investigator didnt 
think he had been caused a financial loss. 
Mr V didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Mr Vs strength of feeling about this matter. And I understand his point that 
this was his money to do with as he wished. 
However, in the circumstances here, TSBs representative was looking to protect Mr Vs 
money by making sure that he wasnt the victim of a scam through processing the transfer. I 
dont think it was the case that the representative was doubting Mr Vs ability to ensure that a 
purchase he was making was genuine, or to conduct his own financial and buying decisions. 
It was more that they were following the banking protocol as they were concerned about the 
transfer Mr V was wanting to make and it was an unusual transaction for how he normally 
uses his TSB account.
 
I know that Mr V feels that the actions TSBs representative took were unreasonable and 
overzealous, and that the delay in making the transfer caused him stress, anxiety and worry. 
And I can understand that having to try and overcome the representatives concerns about 
making the transfer in an area where there were other customers near will have been 
difficult. Its unfortunate that it seems the representative was unable to leave their position at 
the time to take Mr V to a more private area of the branch.
 
TSB has said it is sorry that Mr Vs impression was that this situation caused him 
considerable inconvenience; unnecessary drama and wasted his time. It has apologised that 
Mr V was left feeling that he was treated in a patronising manner. But I dont think TSB was 
mistaken by looking to protect Mr V from possibly being the victim of a scam, even though 
he said he was willing to sign a disclaimer indemnifying TSB from any loss if the transfer did 
turn out to be a scam.
Mr V has suggested that the account may have been mis-sold to him as hes had a previous 
experience with another bank where it had refused to act on his instructions, and Mr V was 
reassured that this wouldnt happen with TSB. However, the terms and conditions of Mr Vs 
account set out the circumstances in which TSB may refuse to make a payment. I 
understand that these wouldve been provided to him when the account was opened, and 
they were available to view on TSBs website.
Taking everything into account, I dont think TSB acted wrongly or unreasonably in initially 
refusing to go ahead with the transfer Mr V wanted to make without asking further questions 
to follow the banking protocol. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman