DRN-2316253
The complaint
Ms K has complained that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages acted 
unfairly and unreasonably when it paid service charges (plus costs) to solicitors instructed by 
the ex-management company of her leasehold property.
What happened
Briefly, Ms K owns a leasehold property on which she has a mortgage. The mortgage was 
originally taken out with another lender, but is now owned by Topaz. The mortgaged 
property is not Ms Ks main residence.
For many years Ms K has been in dispute with the former management company of the 
block where her property is situated over service charges. 
Its clear there has been confusion over the years, but I wont go into that in this decision as 
it isnt relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
Topaz was sent a County Court Judgment (CCJ) and a notice under Section 146 of the 
Law of Property Act 1925 on behalf of the ex-management company. Topaz checked with 
the claimant that the court order had not been set aside; the claimant confirmed it had not. 
On 16 April Topaz wrote to Ms K. It said payment would be made by Topaz as there was a 
court order, and for the same reason it couldnt consider any disputes Ms K may have. It 
said payment would be made after 10 working days, to give Ms K time to resolve things 
herself.
Ms K emailed Topaz on 22 April to say she was in dispute with the ex-management 
company and she said no payment should be made.
Topaz made the payment on 30 April and opened a new sub-account on the mortgage from 
which it debited that sum. 
Unhappy with what had happened, Ms K complained to Topaz. It apologised for making the 
payment early; due to the fact the Easter bank holidays had been overlooked, payment had 
been made after eight working days, rather than ten working days. Topaz said it wouldnt 
charge interest on the sum for 12 months to give Ms K time to get the judgement set aside. 
Other than that it rejected the complaint as it said it had made the payment to protect its 
interests.
Ms K complained to us. The crux of the complaint is that Ms K says Topaz shouldnt have 
made the payment as she was challenging the judgement. An investigator looked at the 
complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She was satisfied that Topaz had acted fairly 
and in accordance with the account terms and conditions. Ms K disagreed with the 
investigators findings and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Law of Property Act 1925, the freeholders are able to forfeit the lease where there 
is a breach of the lease. A Section 146 notice is served by the freeholder on the leaseholder 
and on any mortgagee (in this case, Topaz). It specifies the breach complained of (here it 
was unpaid sums due to the freeholder or its agents), and the notice requires the 
leaseholder to remedy the breach and pay costs. The notice must give a reasonable amount 
of time for them to do so.
If a lease is forfeited, then it is cancelled and no longer exists. The implication of this for 
Topaz is that it would no longer hold any security, so it is a serious situation which Topaz 
had to deal with.
The account terms and conditions allow Topaz to pay sums that are legitimately due and 
demanded in order to preserve its security. A demand for payment pursuant to a CCJ, along 
with a Section 146 notice, is a legitimate demand. Im satisfied that, before paying the 
demand, Topaz verified with the claimant that the CCJ hadnt been set aside. Given the 
seriousness of the situation  where Topazs security was at risk due to the Section 146 
notice  Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Topaz to pay these amounts. 
Im also satisfied that Topaz is entitled to debit the amount it paid out to the mortgage 
account. I think Topaz acted fairly by saying it would give Ms K 12 months to get the CCJ set 
aside before it started charging interest on that sum as it didnt have to make that 
concession.
As soon as Topaz was told that the CCJ had been set aside it contacted the claimant to 
request the funds be returned, and upon receipt of the funds it paid those to the mortgage 
sub-account that it had opened. As that happened within the 12-month interest-free period 
the account was closed without any financial loss to Ms K.
Whilst Topaz made the payment two days sooner than it should have done, Im satisfied that 
had no material impact on what happened. Thats because Topaz was clear in its letter than 
the payment would be made as the amount has already been judicially determined so 
anything other than action to make the payment by Ms K wouldnt be enough to stop matters 
progressing. 
The letter was clear that Ms K continuing to dispute things wouldnt be enough, so unless 
Ms K made the payment herself within those ten working days  which Im satisfied she 
wouldnt have done  then payment still would have been made, albeit two days later than it 
was. 
Please note we are unable to consider any disputes you may have, as we have 
received a judicial determination for the charges due. Therefore without prejudice to 
your dispute, we will pay the amount in order to protect our security. Any dispute you 
have will need to be taken up directly with the claimant.
As interest wasnt charged on the sum then Topazs mistake in making the payment two 
days sooner than it should had no material impact and so I make no order or award of 
compensation for that error.
Ms K says she should be paid compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
her. But as Im satisfied Topaz didnt act inappropriately in making the payment to the 
claimant as there was a Section 146 notice backed up with a judicial determination I cant 
award compensation to her for anything relating to this matter.I understand Ms K wants safeguards put in place to stop things like this happening to other 
customers in the future. Were not the regulator and so Ive no power to do that. If Ms K 
thinks Topaz  and other lenders  should review their procedures then thats a matter she 
can take up with the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) directly. The regulator 
doesnt deal with individual disputes, so it wont look at this specific complaint again, but it 
can look at the broader picture if it feels thats something that needs to be reviewed.
In terms of this individual dispute  which is all I can consider  Im satisfied Topaz was 
allowed to make the payment albeit it should have waited a further two days before it did so. 
Im also satisfied that in any event there has been no financial loss to Ms K as the funds 
were refunded by the claimant and the mortgage sub-account closed with no interest being 
charged by Topaz on the sum.
As Topaz was allowed to make the payment I cant uphold this complaint therefore I cant 
award Ms K compensation for her stress, time and effort.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms K to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.  
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman