DRN-3639481
The complaint
Miss S complains that Amtrust Europe Limited caused delays when handling a claim under 
her legal expenses insurance policy, and unfairly declined it.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes anyone working on their behalf including claims 
handlers.
What happened
In March 2021, Miss S made a claim under her legal expenses insurance policy for an 
employment dispute. Shed already been using a solicitor; proceedings had been issued; 
and the court documents were ready. Miss S asked for cover under the policy for a barrister 
to represent her at the hearing only. 
Amtrust assessed the claim to see if its something the policy would cover. The found the 
issue the court was considering occurred in 2018, but the home insurance provider said the 
policy was only taken out in 2020. Because of this, Amtrust told Miss S that it couldnt accept 
the claim. 
Miss S provided information to show shed had a home insurance policy since 2018. But as it 
didnt show if legal expenses cover was included, Amtrust asked the home insurance 
provider about this. The answer wasnt provided until mid-May 2021, which caused Miss S a 
great deal of worry as her hearing was listed for early June.
Once the policy had been confirmed, Amtrust asked solicitors to carry out a legal 
assessment on the prospects of success. It was told the same day the solicitors had a 
conflict of interest, so another firm was instructed. 
The solicitors believed the claim didnt have reasonable prospects for success, which is 
needed for there to be cover under the policy. So Amtrust declined the claim. Miss S was 
told this outcome less than two weeks before her hearing date. Miss S went to court and was 
successful in her claim. 
Miss S has raised several complaint points over the handling of her claim, and although I 
wont list them all, the main issue is that shes unhappy with the length of time Amtrust has 
taken to handle her case. And that the decision to decline her claim was unfair.
The complaint was brought to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. As Miss S 
didnt accept the outcome, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has a brain injury which affects how shes able to communicate, especially when 
dealing with a complex process involving an insurance claim and the employment tribunal. I 
wont go into the full details of this disability and the impact it has on her. This is because Im 
satisfied that everyone involved in this complaint are aware of the details and I want to make 
sure Miss S personal circumstances are kept confidential. 
However, I want to assure Miss S that Ive taken this into account when considering her 
complaint.
Id also like to assure Miss S that although Im aware I may have described some of the 
complaint points in far less detail and in my own words, Ive read and considered everything 
shes told us. Im satisfied I understand the complaint and I dont need to comment on every 
point individually, or possibly in the level of detail she would like, to reach what I think is a 
fair outcome. This isnt meant to be impolite, but we are an informal service.
Delays 
Amtrust received Miss S claim on 26 March 2021 but it wasnt until 17 May 2021 that 
it was able to complete its claims assessment. From a review of the file, home 
insurance provider took a long time to confirm the policy. Im satisfied Amtrust 
couldnt help this but  it did all it could to chase the response.
Once the policy was confirmed and the claims assessment completed, Amtrust 
asked a firm of solicitors to complete the legal assessment. This was done on 18 
May 2021. Unfortunately, the solicitors said they had a conflict of interest, but this 
isnt something Id expect Amtrust to know beforehand as its a check the solicitors 
will do when theyre asked to look at the claim. Im satisfied Amtrust sent the claim to 
another solicitors firm the same day, avoiding any more delays. 
The solicitors provided their assessment of the claim on 28 May 2021  eight working 
days after being asked to look at it. Im satisfied this was something Amtrusts could 
help. But because the file was large and the case was complex, I dont think this was 
an unreasonable amount of time that wouldve needed Amtrust to chase an answer. 
Overall, I havent been able to identify any delays which I can fairly hold Amtrust responsible 
for. I appreciate Miss S was very stressed about the hearing date and she was only told 12 
days before that her claim wasnt covered. But Miss S didnt ask Amtrust to consider her 
claim until after proceedings had been issued and a hearing date set, so Amtrust was always 
going to be under pressure to make a decision quickly. And it has to assess the claim 
correctly even if they are under pressure.
Legal assessment
The terms and conditions of Miss S policy say that a claim must have reasonable 
prospects of success which are described as being more than 50% chance of 
winning. 
This is a requirement of almost all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its 
unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt normally 
want to pay the cost if told its unlikely they will win. And we wouldnt expect a legal 
expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding like they did here, we wouldnt 
decide if the solicitors were right. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted 
fairly. As long as theyve got advice from lawyers qualified in that area of law, we wont normally question if they should trust that advice, unless we think it was 
obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes.
In this case, Amtrust has got a legal assessment from its solicitors it often uses who 
believed the claim didnt have more than 50% chance of winning. 
Im satisfied the advice is clear and well-reasoned, and its from a lawyer qualified in 
employment law. I dont agree the solicitor only had a quick look at the case, a 
detailed review was carried out on the key documents that were important to the 
case. So I havent seen anything to say Amtrust couldnt rely on it.
Miss S was told she had a right to get a legal opinion of her own, at her own cost, to 
argue the rejection of her claim. Amtrust said that if the opinion disagreed with theirs, 
it could reconsider its decision. I appreciate why Miss S choose not to do this given 
that the hearing was close. 
I know Miss S won her case at court. But this doesnt mean that it had reasonable 
prospects of success or that the solicitors advice was wrong. I say this because the 
policy limit for cover is more than 50%, so even a claim that doesnt meet this level 
still has up to 49% chance of winning.
Im satisfied Amtrust were able to rely on the legal advice of the solicitors and that the 
decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy terms and fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman