DRN-3045098
The complaint
Mr B complained that Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) told him he needed to pay an 
excess of £100 when it accepted his claim. 
Mr Bs mobile phone provider deals with claims and complaints on behalf of Chubb, but for 
ease, Ill refer to all actions and comments as those of Chubb. 
What happened
Mr B took out a mobile phone insurance policy with Chubbs predecessor in January 2017. 
Chubb began underwriting the policy in 2020. 
Mr B contacted Chubb at the end of May 2020 to make a claim, after his phone fell from his 
wheelchair and the screen was damaged. Chubb accepted the claim as accidental damage. 
It told Mr B it would send a refurbished phone and Mr B would need to pay an excess of 
£100. Mr B told Chubb he was not aware that there was an excess on his policy and said it 
was too much, given that repairing the phone would cost Chubb £136. Mr B also said he 
would struggle to pay. Mr B submitted a complaint and cancelled the claim and the policy. 
Chubb responded and said the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy explained that he would 
be charged an excess for each successful claim, and so this cost could not be refunded or 
waived. In relation to cancelling the policy, Chubb said it understood Mr B wanted a full 
refund for the years he had been paying for the policy, but it didnt agree to this. 
Mr B was unhappy with the response from Chubb and so complained to this service. He said 
being asked to pay the excess is unfair as he didnt know about it, and he cant afford it. 
Mr B said he got the phone repaired at a cost of £30. But he said Chubb told him this would 
invalidate the policy. Mr B also said he didnt know he would get a refurbished phone 
following a claim. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B did not agree with what our 
investigator said so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I first of all want to reiterate to Mr B that most insurance policies include an excess charge. 
This is the amount of the cost of the claim that must be paid by the policy holder each time a 
claim is made. And the approach this service takes is that its fair for insurers to charge an 
excess, as long as its been made clear to the policy holder that it will be charged, as well as 
the amount to be charged. 
I sympathise with Mr B, and having listened to the calls he made to Chubb its clear he was 
not expecting to have to pay an excess and would have struggled to find £100. But my role 
is to look at whether Chubb did anything wrong here. Specifically, whether it did enough to 
provide Mr B with information to show he would need to pay an excess. And Im satisfied it 
did. Ill explain why. 
Ive seen the policy documents and its mentioned in several places that an excess would 
need to be paid, as well as letting Mr B know what the excess amount was. The original 
policy terms and conditions, which were unchanged in relation to the excess when Chubb 
took over as underwriter in 2020, state: 
 
If your phone is lost, stolen, accidentally damaged or breaks down, you could get a 
replacement the next day. Providing your claim is successful, there will be an excess of 
£100.
And listed under Important things to know the policy documents say: If You make a 
successful claim You will need to pay an Excess.
What Ive listed above are just some of the references to the excess in the policy terms. So, 
Im satisfied Chubb made it clear that an excess would be charged, as well as the amount of 
the excess. I realise Mr B said he would have struggled to pay the excess amount, but I 
have to be fair to both parties and I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Chubb to set 
aside the excess when its an amount that was clearly stated in the policy documents that 
both parties agreed to when Mr B took out the policy. 
Mr B also said he thought it was unreasonable for Chubb to say it would replace his phone 
rather than repair it, which Mr B sees as the more inexpensive option. Again, Ive looked at 
the terms of Mr Bs policy and these say: 
We will replace Your Mobile Phone or Connected Device if: it stops working normally as the 
result of anything that happens by accident during the Period of Cover;
So Im satisfied the terms make it clear that Mr Bs phone would be replaced rather than 
repaired in the event of accidental damage. 
Mr B also complained he was told by Chubb that if he made his own arrangements to have 
the phone repaired, then this would invalidate his policy. However, Ive listened to the call 
between Mr B and Chubb and Im satisfied that what Mr B was actually told was that if he 
didnt have the phone repaired by an authorised repairer then it might invalidate his 
warranty. This is the guarantee from the manufacturer that comes with the phone and it can 
sometimes be the case that having repairs done by an unauthorised repairer means the 
manufacturer wont allow further claims to be made to it under the warranty. I think it was 
important for Chubb to point this out to Mr B, given that he told it he wanted to cancel the 
claim and so possibly make his own arrangements to have repairs carried out. And Im 
satisfied he wasnt told his insurance policy would be invalidated. 
I know that Mr B was also concerned about the age of his phone in comparison to the cost of 
the insurance contract during the three years it was in place. But the terms advise Mr B that 
this contract runs for a maximum of 60 months, unless cancelled. And it advises Mr B to 
check from time to time that the insurance continues to meet his needs. So, once the 
contract has been taken out, Im satisfied the onus is on Mr B to periodically check that the 
policy is still suitable for him. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr B, but I could only ask Chubb to take a different course 
of action if I thought it had made an error here or acted unfairly, and Im satisfied thats not 
the case.   My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman