DRN-2078331
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) have failed to uphold a
claim she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2020.  In that decision I explained 
that unless I was provided with additional evidence that led me to change my view, I was 
expecting to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
An extract from that provisional decision is set out below.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont currently agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and 
Im expecting to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs B made a claim through them for
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances,
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the
supplier.
I think theres sufficient evidence there has been a breach of contract and that Nationwide
were therefore unreasonable when not upholding Mrs Bs claim. I say that for the following
reasons:
I think its reasonable to say there was a breach of the implied terms of the contract
when the repair first failed in May 2019. I say that because the repair that was
completed was unsuccessful and a subsequent visit was required.
During that subsequent visit in June the engineer identified that the fridge wasnt
working because the fan was damaged. I think Mrs B could have reasonably
expected the engineer to note this issue when he first attended in May so, again, Im
persuaded that the original repair failed.
I think theres also evidence that the second repair failed as I can see Mrs B has had
to source another fridge freezer. I dont think she would have had to do that if the one
she had was working satisfactorily. She spent a lot of money on repairs to try to get
her previous appliance working and I think its likely she would have persevered.
Whilst legislation might allow the supplier an opportunity to repair the problem I dont
think its fair to say that legislation allows the supplier a further opportunity to repair
the issue. At that point I think Mrs B would have reasonably been entitled to expect
her money back.
I dont think, in those circumstances, its fair to suggest the supplier made a
satisfactory offer. Given the failures that had taken place, and Mrs Bs disputes about
damage to her property and the alarm system, I dont think she could have been
expected to allow the supplier to enter her property again.
So I think Nationwide should have provided a refund and Ive therefore considered
what should be refunded. I think all money paid to the supplier should be refunded as
Im persuaded its most likely the fridge freezer wasnt successfully repaired.
Nationwide should add 8% simple interest per annum to that refund as Mrs B has
been deprived of the money whilst shes been progressing her claim.
Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to support a payment for the damage to
the alarm system, the floor, or wall.
For these reasons, Im expecting to uphold this complaint.
My provisional decision
Im expecting to tell Nationwide Building Society to refund any payments Mrs B has made to
the supplier. They should add 8% simple interest per annum to the refund from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
Putting things right
Nationwide didnt provide any further information and Mrs B accepted my provisional 
decision so Ive seen no reason to change it.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and tell Nationwide Building Society to refund any payments Mrs B 
has made to the supplier. They should add 8% simple interest per annum to the refund from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman