DRN-2043556
The complaint
Miss G complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited trading at the time as Satsuma 
allowed her to continue to make repayments on her loan, despite it having sold the debt on 
to a third party. She is unhappy that a default was added to her account on 16 September 
2019 and about the lack of contact from Satsuma regarding her agreement and the transfer 
of the debt to the third party. 
What happened
Miss G took out a short-term loan in August 2017 with Satsuma for £1,000. Miss G was due 
to repay £166 monthly over a period of 12 months.
 
Miss G continued to make repayments for the loan in varying amounts until September 
2019. At various points she agreed different repayment plans with Satsuma, sometimes for 
as little as £1 per month. On many occasions Miss G struggled to repay these sums.
In May 2019, Satsuma issued a default notice, after Miss G failed to repay an agreed sum 
towards her loan in April 2019. Miss G then continued to make some repayment. But she is 
concerned that Satsuma sold the debt on to a third party while she was making her 
repayments and that a default was applied to her credit file.
Our adjudicator didnt think Satsuma had done anything wrong in applying the default when 
it did. Miss G disagreed with this view. She said that Satsuma should have placed the 
account in default in April (not in September when it did) and not allowed her to continue 
making repayments to it if it had already sold the loan on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having considered everything carefully, Im sorry to disappoint Miss G but Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I can see Miss G had repayment problems quite early on and based on Satsumas internal 
records, Miss G made payments towards her loan of £1.00 from December 2017 to 1 April 
2018. In June 2018 Miss G repaid £166 but this payment was refunded on the same date 
with a message not to use the debit card for payment - it should have been a cash 
repayment. Miss G continued to repay varying amounts towards her loan. In July she repaid 
£1.00, a few days later also in July she repaid £86.00. 
She then continued once again to repay £1.00 from August 2018 to January 2019. In 
February and March 2019, she made repayments of £10.00 and then repaid £74 in May 
2019, followed by varying amounts until September of no more than £31.
So, all this builds a picture that Miss G was in difficulty making her repayments from early on 
in the repayments for this loan. 
On 1 April 2019, Miss Gs repayment of her loan to Satsuma in accordance with her 
agreement failed. So, at this point the continuous payment authority was then removed from 
her agreement. Miss G was informed by text message on 1 April 2019 that her payment had 
been refused and asked Miss G to contact it to make repayment. Subsequently a payment 
arrangement of £10 a month (which fulfilled the criteria of the default notice) was removed 
altogether on 18 April 2019 due to non-payment. It seems that Satsuma didnt want to apply 
a default earlier on. In theory it could have applied it in April 2019 when she again fell into 
arrears. But as Miss G got back in contact and rearranged a new payment arrangement to 
repay £10 per calendar month, I think this likely prevented the default from being applied at 
that time. Satsuma might have been trying to assist Miss G and as a result did not default 
the account.
Satsuma sent a final response letter to Miss G about her complaint on 6 December 2019. In 
it, Satsuma said it sent the default notice on 18 May 2018. I have asked for a copy of the 
default notice from Satsuma, but it hasnt replied to my request. So, I have to decide whether 
on the balance of probabilities the default notice was sent to Miss G and when it was sent. 
That means that I have to decide what is more likely to have happened.
 
On balance I think it was probably sent to Miss G on 18 May 2019. Miss G was behind in her 
repayments at this time and this date also coincides with the events that took place in Miss 
G not keeping up her repayment of her loan in accordance with her agreement and the 
subsequent default notice and selling the debt to a third party.
Satsuma says the default notice told Miss G that she was in default and in relation to making 
repayments it said If you fail to do this, your credit agreement will be terminated and your 
debt passed for debt collection. This may result in court action being taken against you 
which is likely to add further costs to your balance. We will also register a default with the 
Credit Reference Bureau, which could affect your ability to obtain credit in the future.
Satsuma also said that the default notice also made Miss G aware she had 28 days in which 
to contact it to make an arrangement or payment towards her arrears and whilst payment 
was being made it wouldnt look to apply the default to Miss Gs credit file.
Miss G continued to make repayments. These were for different amounts. So, although the 
arrangement to repay her debt had been cancelled it doesnt seem as though Satsuma 
applied the default to Miss Gs file. After 5 September 2019, Miss G made no repayment at 
all and because of this, the default notice was now effective on 16 September 2019.
In relation to passing the debt onto the third party this appears to have taken place on 16 
September 2019, once Miss G stopped her repayments in accordance with the terms of the 
default notice and when the continuous payment authority was no longer being met. So, Im 
satisfied that Satsuma wasnt collecting repayments from Miss G after it had passed her debt 
to a third party. 
Satsuma had the debt the whole time Miss G was repaying her loan  Satsuma said it sold 
the debt onto a third party on 16 September 2019 when the default was added. Which is 
something that Satsuma was entitled to do. So, Miss Gs debt was not sold on while she was 
repaying her loan repayments as she believes. The letter from the third party to Miss G that 
she has kindly provided is dated on 2 October 2019.
 
Satsuma could have issued a default notice before it did as Miss G had struggled to repay 
her debt throughout the term of the loan. But as it more likely issued it in May 2019 then it couldnt have applied the default on Miss Gs credit record earlier as that would have been 
prior to issuing the notice. And prior to this it looks like various repayment plans were 
arranged so its likely Satsuma was trying to help Miss G.
When Satsuma agreed terms of repayments, Miss G still struggled to repay even for 
amounts as low as £1. In 2019 Miss G was unable to keep to her repayment plan for £10. 
So, Im sorry to disappoint Miss G but I cant uphold her complaint. I dont think Satsuma did 
anything wrong in applying a default notice, noting the default on her credit file or in selling 
on the debt to a third party. And I think the timing of serving the default notice, applying the 
default to Miss Gs account and selling it on to a third party was in line with the difficulty 
which Miss G was having in repaying her loan amounts and keeping up with her repayment 
plans agreed.
My final decision
For the reasons et out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Provident Personal Credit 
Limited doesnt need to do anything further to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman