DRN-3900484
The complaint
Mr L complains that Skrill Limited closed his account unfairly.  
What happened
Mr L received notification that Skrill was closing his account with immediate effect, but he 
would still be able to withdraw any remaining funds from it. Mr L was unhappy with this as he 
did not feel he had breached the terms and conditions. In addition to this, he had missed out 
on the most recent monthly cashback promotion connected to loyalty points, and his account 
was tied with a number of online wallets, meaning withdrawing and transferring funds was 
now difficult.
Skrill issued a final response in which it explained it had closed the account in line with the 
terms and conditions. Any loyalty points remaining at account termination would be 
unavailable for an exchange, as per the terms and conditions of the promotion. Mr L 
remained unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and agreed that the account had been closed in 
line with the terms and conditions, so Skrill had not made an error in doing so. And they 
confirmed Skrill is not required to provide a reason for this. 
Mr L disagreed with the outcome and maintained he had not breached the terms and 
conditions of the account. As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. I think Skrill has 
acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances and I do not think it has made an error 
when closing Mr Ls account. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Mr L says his account should not have been closed as he had not breached the terms and 
conditions. Skrill has said that they closed the account in line with the terms and conditions 
and they followed the appropriate process. 
Skrill sent Mr L a letter explaining they were withdrawing his banking facilities with them with 
immediate effect, but he was still able to withdraw funds as there was a positive balance 
remaining on the account. Looking at the terms and conditions of the account, it states Skrill 
may suspend or terminate an account without notice if, among other things, Mr L had 
breached the conditions of the terms of use. Looking at this, Im satisfied that Skrills 
decision to close the account without notice was made in line with the relevant terms and 
conditions. 
Mr L is unhappy that Skrill have not set out their reasons for closing his account. However, 
they are not required to do so. I have reviewed Skrills evidence and rationale for making this 
decision and I dont think they reached it incorrectly or unreasonably. From what I have 
seen, I think that they followed the correct process, so I cant see they have made an error in 
the circumstances.  
Mr L has also mentioned that he has missed out on the most recent cashback loyalty 
programme due to the account closure. Skrill has explained that any points remaining at the 
time of account termination are unavailable for exchange. Ive reviewed the relevant rules for 
the loyalty programme and can see that in order to take part you must be a qualifying 
participant. In order to be a qualifying participant you have to have an active Skrill account. 
As Mr L no longer had an active Skrill account, I think it is reasonable that he no longer had 
access to the loyalty programme and the points within it. 
Considering everything available to me, I think Skrill closed the account fairly and did so in a 
reasonable manner. So, I do not think they have made an error in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint against Skrill Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman