DRN-4297157
The complaint
Ms D and Mr W complain about Great Lakes Insurance SEs decision to avoid their buildings 
insurance policy after they made a claim for damage caused by an escape of water.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
In short, Ms D and Mr W took out a home insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes to 
cover the buildings (not contents) of their property.
The policy was bought on 2 December 2022 with an inception date of 8 December 2022.
Ms D and Mr W made a claim on 15 December 2022 after an escape of water caused by 
frozen pipes damaged their property. The claim is for around £30,000.
When they reviewed the claim, Great Lakes decided that the policy should be avoided on the 
basis that Ms D and Mr W had made a misrepresentation when they bought the policy.
They said Ms D and Mr W had been asked whether the property was their main residence 
and theyd said that it was. 
Great Lakes said that, in fact, the property was in the process of being sold when the policy 
was bought. At the time, Mr W was living and working abroad. It had been vacated and 
emptied before the escape of water occurred. And so, they say, it was not Ms D and Mr Ws 
main residence at the time of purchase or inception of the policy.
Great Lakes have confirmed that they do not regard the alleged misrepresentation as 
deliberate or reckless. So, they avoided the policy and returned the premiums, in line with 
the provisions of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act (CIDRA).
Ms D and Mr W werent happy with this and made complaint to Great Lakes. And when 
Great Lakes maintained their stance, Ms D and Mr W brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Great Lakes had acted unfairly in avoiding the 
policy. They said it was true to say, on 2 December 2022 when the policy was bought, that 
the property was Ms D and Mr Ws main residence. So, there was no misrepresentation 
when  on that specific date - they said that it was.
Great Lakes didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be clear at the outset that my decision is only about whether Great Lakes acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in concluding that Ms D and Mr W made a misrepresentation (as 
per CIDRA), which led to them avoiding the policy.
I cant comment at this point on whether Great Lakes should or should not settle the claim 
and pay for the repairs to the property. Great Lakes havent looked at that yet  
understandably since they avoided the policy before they got to that question.
Im going to uphold this complaint - Ill explain why below. But, as I say, that does not 
necessarily mean I think Great Lakes should pay out on the claim. The policy has a number 
of conditions and exclusions which Great Lakes are entitled to consider before they 
determine how to respond to the claim.
Im upholding the complaint because I think it was  very literally  true that Ms D and 
Mr Ws main residence on 2 December 2022 was the property in question.
Im aware Mr W was working away at the relevant time. To be blunt, I dont think that 
matters. Policyholders will at times work away and/or take extended holidays. That doesnt 
mean the insured property isnt their main residence  at least not by any reasonable 
definition of that term.
Im also aware that Ms D and Mr W were fully intending to sell the property  and to do so 
relatively soon  at the time they bought the policy. Contracts were exchanged, as I 
understand it, on 14 December 2022.
And Im willing to conclude that on balance, they knew when they bought the policy that they 
were moving out in the very near future. Removals were carried out five days after the policy 
was bought.
That means Ms D and Mr W bought a policy they knew was very likely to have a limited 
usefulness for them. But they were entitled to buy a policy and not leave their property 
uninsured for a period of time. 
And neither the fact they were intending to sell  nor the fact they had removals arranged  
means they misrepresented the facts on 2 December 2022, when they said the property was 
their main residence, before they completed the sale and/or had their belongings removed. 
This is a very finely balanced decision for me because I can see Great Lakes argument that 
Ms D and Mr W knowingly bought a policy and said the property was their main residence 
knowing full well that it wouldnt be their main residence less than a week or two later  and 
very possibly before the policy actually came into effect. 
Im also aware that if they had sought a policy from Great Lakes or another insurer and been 
entirely upfront about the situation, they might not have been provided with a policy or might 
have been given a different or more expensive policy.
Im also very aware that it could be argued that Ms D and Mr W would and/or reasonably 
should have known, when they were asked the specific question when they bought the 
policy, that Great Lakes werent asking out of mild curiosity as to whether it was their main 
residence at that specific moment in time. 
It wouldnt be entirely unreasonable to suggest that Ms D and Mr W might have thought, at 
the time, that Great Lakes were likely more interested in what the situation would be during 
the time that the policy was actually in force.However, on balance, I come back to this fundamental point  Ms D and Mr W were asked a 
fairly clear question about their main residence. There werent any qualifications, caveats or 
further instructions about that question. 
I cant see either that there was anything to suggest to Ms D and Mr W that if their current 
circumstances were temporary, or they were unsure how to answer the question, they 
should contact Great lakes to discuss things.
Ms D and Mr Ws answer to the straightforward question they were asked was literally 
correct at the time.
On that basis, Im upholding this complaint. On balance, there was no misrepresentation (as 
defined in CIDRA) in this case.
Putting things right
Great Lakes told Ms D and Mr W they were returning their premiums. They also confirmed 
for us later that they regarded the alleged misrepresentation as careless rather than 
deliberate or reckless.
Because Ive decided that there was in fact no misrepresentation, Im going to require Great 
Lakes to reinstate the policy  at least for the relevant period. That period would be up until 
the date the house was finally sold, when the policy became in effect redundant.
Great Lakes should re-claim from Ms D and Mr W the premiums to cover that period. They 
should then consider the escape of water claim under the terms and conditions of the policy.
Great Lakes will also need to remove from their own databases  and from any external 
databases to which theyve contributed  any record which suggests the policy was avoided.
In effect, the records should show that Ms D and Mr W cancelled the policy themselves  as 
from the date the house was sold. Thats what would have happened if Great Lakes hadnt  
erroneously in my view - avoided the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms D and Mr Ws complaint.
Great Lakes Insurance SE must:
reinstate the policy  with effect from the date it was avoided to the date Ms D and Mr 
Ws house was sold;
consider Ms D and Mr Ws claim relating to the escape of water in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy; and
remove any record  internal or external  that suggests the policy was avoided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman