DRN-2406820
The complaint
Mr A complains that he and his friend didnt received a Recommend a Friend (RAF) 
payment from Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
Mr As friend forwarded him an email which contained a referral link for Nationwides RAF 
scheme. Mr A clicked on the link, submitted the application and thought that he and his 
friend would be paid £100 each after 28 days after the switch had been completed.
After this time had passed and Mr A had not received the incentive, he contacted Nationwide 
to see what the delay was. He was told that he needed to wait 30 days after the switch, not 
28 days and to wait another two days. 
Three days later Mr A contacted Nationwide again as he had not received the £100. When 
reading his switch reference number, the call handler told him he believed the
issue was Mr A read a letter i as a number 1 and input the switch reference incorrectly.
Mr A complained to Nationwide and said that he had completed the RAF application 
correctly and that they should honour the £100 payment for himself and his friend. 
Nationwide said in their final response letter that the RAF terms and conditions had not been 
met. The application was in two parts, with both needing to be completed correctly, but Mr A 
hadnt completed part 2 of the switch form within 90 days of his friend submitting the 
recommendation. They acknowledged they had given Mr A incorrect information over the 
telephone twice. On the first occasion the call handler had not checked to ensure the terms 
and conditions had been met when she suggested that they had been met. On the second 
call, the handler said it was because the switch reference given was incorrect. Considering 
these errors Nationwide apologised and credited £100 to Mr As account. 
Mr A brought the complaint to our service as he said he did complete part 2 of the RAF 
application and so Nationwide should pay him and his friend £100. He also complained 
about the cost of the calls to them and asked for a further £15 to compensation. 
An investigator looked at the complaint and said that the terms and conditions state if both 
part 1 and part 2 of the RAF scheme isnt completed within 90 days of the referral date, both 
the recommender and the customer would be unable to claim the £100 bonus. Even if the 
account switch reference number had been inputted wrongly, the second part would have 
still shown as complete. 
The investigator also noted that while Mr A had provided extracts from news stories about 
other customers; experiences with the RAF scheme - this service treats every case 
individually. So he couldnt reasonably say that Nationwide should award Mr A the bonus 
just because they did so with other customers and the investigator said Nationwide do not 
need to take any further action.
Nationwide agreed with the view of the investigator, but Mr A did not and asked for the case 
to be looked at by an ombudsman for the following reasons - Nationwide said that he didnt 
complete part 2 of the application, but Mr A said he did and they have not provided evidence 
to substantiate their claim.. He added they have never denied he opened the account via the 
RAF link but seem to agree he was referred from a friend. Mr A said the terms and 
conditions were not made (available) to him prior to opening his account.  Lastly, he added if 
the terms and conditions were that important then they should have been sent separately, 
prior to applying for his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, I have arrived at the same conclusions as the investigator  and for very
much the same reasons.
The terms of the promotion that Mr A hasnt qualified for were provided to Mr A before he 
submitted his application. These included a section that explained that there are two steps to 
the application process here  and that Step 2 will require the recommended friend (here 
Mr A) to complete a recommendation through a link. The full switch  being the overall 
application process included this second step - needs to be done within 90 days.
The terms of the promotion that Mr A hasnt qualified for were provided to Mr A before he 
submitted his application. These included a section that explained that there are several 
steps to the application process here  and that one step will require the recommended 
friend (here Mr A) to complete a recommendation form. The full switch  being the overall 
application process including this step - needs to be done within 90 days.
I think thats ultimately what happened here. I realise that Mr A believes he had filled in the 
information he thought was needed to be eligible for the promotion. But, Im satisfied he 
didnt complete the second part of the application. I say this as Nationwide have provided 
information from their records to show that this is the case. They said they would have still 
received the second part of the application even if there had been an error with the 
information, as their systems would have shown a tick next to eligibility being met, but they 
didnt here. So with this in mind, Im satisfied  on balance of the evidence  that Mr A didnt 
complete the application in the way Nationwide needed.
I have looked at the news articles Mr A has sent. But, I must stress that each complaint 
brought to this service is treated on its own merits and I can only give my decision based on 
the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties accept that Mr A was not given the correct information on phone calls and so 
Nationwide have paid him £100 to compensate him for this. I think this is fair as it would 
have been frustrating for Mr A to be given incorrect information and contact Nationwide at 
his expense. Nationwide has also said that if the cost of the calls were over £10 for Mr A to 
contact them with evidence and they will refund the call costs. He hasnt done this to date 
from what Ive seen, But if he would now like to take Nationwide up on this, he is free to do 
so.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman