DRN-1543857
 
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with his account switch 
incentive.
What happened
Mr S switched his account to Nationwide in 2018 to take advantage of its account switch 
incentive which offered a payment to him and a friend. He says during the switch process he 
e-mailed a Nationwide staff member to explain that he had one eligible direct debit but was 
told that as long as the second direct debit was set up before the switch, that would meet the 
requirement. Mr S says he didn't receive the incentive and was told that was due to only 
having one eligible direct debit. He says he was forced into setting up a direct debit he didn't 
want using a system he doesn't trust.
Mr S says he complained about what took place and Nationwide ignored the e-mail 
exchange until he pointed it out. He says he then found £75 in his account without 
explanation. Mr S says he in summary has been treated badly and ought to have been told 
about the £75 and that he hadn't met the switch eligibility criteria. He would like the switch 
incentive for him and his friend.
Nationwide says the switch incentive terms and conditions say a minimum of two existing 
direct debits on the old account must be transferred as part of the switch process. It says the 
switch process started on 22 October 2018 and Mr S e-mailed its staff member on 29 
October 2018 which meant it was too late to set up a second direct debit. Nationwide 
accepts its staff member ought to have told Mr S that, and also accepts there was a delay in 
responding fully to Mr S's complaint and taking those e-mails in consideration. It has 
apologised and paid Mr S £75 compensation.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought Nationwide had dealt fairly 
with the complaint by paying a fair level of compensation. The investigator thought that Mr S 
should have been given the correct information that he wasn't eligible for the switch 
incentive. But even if he had, there wouldn't have been anything he could have done to 
become eligible at that stage. The investigator didn't think Mr S had suffered a financial loss 
and thought Nationwide had responded to his complaint within a reasonable time period.
Mr S doesn't accept that view and says his complaint was not about money but the 
investigator in any event has not taken into account the time and inconvenience 
Nationwide's actions had on him. He says he has suffered a financial loss and says he 
would have honoured a mistake such as the mistake Nationwide's staff member made. He 
also says Nationwide accused him of lying, and he would have told it to have kept the £75 if 
he knew what it was for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise Mr S will be disappointed by 
my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about what has taken place. And I also 
accept that he has spent a considerable amount of time dealing with this complaint and 
providing us with details of what took place.
I have looked at the switch incentive terms and conditions and I can see they make clear 
that to receive the incentive - two existing direct debits must be transferred as part of the 
switch. I'm satisfied Mr S didn't meet that condition as he didn't have two existing direct 
debits in place and the second direct debit was set up after the switch process had started. 
So I don't think Nationwide made a mistake or acted unfairly by concluding Mr S didn't meet 
its switch incentive terms and conditions.
I appreciate what Mr S says, that Nationwide ought to have told him that but didn't at the 
time. We are not Nationwide's regulator and so it's not our role to tell it how it runs and 
operates its business. That means we can't, for example as in this case, tell it that it should 
write to customers in these circumstances. 
The issue in this case is that Mr S asked a Nationwide member of staff about the direct debit 
criteria and was given incorrect advice. I accept that the staff member ought to have 
checked the position before e-mailing Mr S, and ought to have told him that he wasn't 
eligible under the incentive rules. I appreciate what Mr S says about his concern about 
setting up a direct debit and I also accept he was caused unnecessary inconvenience in 
doing so. But I'm satisfied that Mr S was not eligible for the switch incentive and I don't think 
it fair to order Nationwide to pay that incentive in those circumstances. And I can't fairly order 
Nationwide to honour what Mr S says he was told, as I think if he had been given the correct 
information, the outcome would have been the same- that he wouldn't receive the incentive.
I have made clear that I find Mr S was caused inconvenience as a result of the incorrect 
advice. And I accept that Nationwide didn't take the e-mail exchange into account when it  
first investigated Mr S's complaint, which had the result of delaying its final response. I have 
no doubt that caused Mr S frustration as he would have been aware of the contents of those 
e-mails but I have not seen any evidence that Nationwide lied about the existence of the e-
mails. I also accept that it would have been preferable for Nationwide to have told Mr S that 
it intended paying him the £75 compensation before crediting his account.
Overall I accept Nationwide has made mistakes in how it dealt with this complaint. But I'm 
satisfied it has fairly apologised for what took place and has paid what I think is a fair and 
reasonable level of £75 compensation. I understand that Mr S says this complaint is not 
about the money but about how he was treated and that he would have acted differently if 
his staff member had given incorrect information. I hope Mr S appreciates, as I have 
explained, that is not something I can order Nationwide to follow or require it to do. 
I accept it's unlikely Mr S will accept my decision, but I'm satisfied this brings an end to what 
we in trying to soft out this complaint informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society has dealt fairly with this complaint and I 
don't require it to do anything further in the circumstances of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
David SinghOmbudsman