DRN-4275916
The complaint
Mrs R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct wont refund money she lost 
as a result of a scam. 
What happened
Mrs R was in the process of purchasing a property. Unfortunately, her email account was 
compromised. This led to her communicating with fraudsters rather than her solicitor. The 
fraudsters were able to direct her to pay their own account, instead of the solicitors. Mrs R 
sent around £370,000 to the fraudsters account, but all but £50,200 was later recovered.
On 18 May 2022 she attempted to make a payment of £1,200. While making that payment 
she received a message informing her that the account details she entered could not be 
checked using the Confirmation of Payee (CoP) scheme. She chose to proceed. She was 
then asked the purpose of the payment, which she selected as Making a large purchase 
(e.g. house or car). She was presented with a warning that is discussed later in this 
decision. This payment was stopped by First Directs fraud team, but because of the time of 
day they were unable to speak to her and the payment was therefore reversed. 
The following day Mrs R attempted to make another payment  this time for a smaller 
amount - £200. She received the same CoP message. She was again asked for the purpose 
of the payment, but on this occasion she selected Buying goods and services and therefore 
received a different warning message (that was largely irrelevant to her circumstances). 
Later that day Mrs R attempted to make a further £50,000 payment to the same account 
details. That payment was stopped by First Direct for fraud checks. During that call Mrs R 
said that shed confirmed the account details over the phone. She also made a similar 
statement in relation to a subsequent larger payment. 
When her solicitor advised they hadnt received any money, Mrs R contacted First Direct to 
report the fraud. She acknowledged that during a call with the bank shed incorrectly advised 
it that shed spoken to her solicitor to confirm the account details, when, in fact, shed only 
received the account details over email. She accepted that shed made an error in telling the 
bank shed verbally confirmed the account details but she argued that First Direct hadnt 
done enough to warn her about this kind of scam. So, she asked First Direct to pay 50% of 
her loss as well as reimburse her (significant) legal costs. 
First Direct refused and the matter was referred to our service. One of our Investigators 
considered First Directs liability under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) which requires its signatories to reimburse victims of 
APP scams like this one in all but a limited number of circumstances. The Investigator 
disagreed that First Direct could fairly rely on either exception it sought to rely on. They 
thought that Mrs R hadnt ignored an Effective Warning as neither the written warnings 
provided to her or the telephone call met the definition of Effective under the CRM Code. 
They also thought that Mrs R held a reasonable basis for believing that she was actually 
dealing with the solicitors, due to the complex and sophisticated nature of the scam and the 
fact that First Direct, during the call prior to the £50,000 payment, hadnt explained why it 
was asking Mrs R how shed checked the account details.
So, they recommended that First Direct pay Mrs R £50,000 and 8% simple interest per 
annum on that amount from the date First Direct declined Mrs Rs claim under the CRM 
Code to the date of settlement. In addition, the Investigator thought that First Direct should 
pay Mrs R £100 compensation to reflect its poor customer service, but didnt recommend it 
refund Mrs Rs legal fees. 
First Direct disagreed. In summary, it said:
-The written warning provided in relation to the first smaller payment was Effective. It 
advised Mrs R to check emails for spelling and grammatical errors and to check for 
even very small changes in the email address they are received from.
-First Direct didnt need to go into further detail about email interception scams during 
the calls because it was entitled to rely on Mrs Rs response, on more than one 
occasion, that she had checked the account details over the phone. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
In advance of my final decision, both parties agreed that the outstanding loss was £50,200, 
rather than £50,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Mrs R is responsible for transactions shes authorised 
herself. But, as already set out, First Direct are a signatory of the CRM Code and it needs to 
demonstrate that any of the exceptions to reimbursement apply in order to fairly decline her 
claim. In this case, it seeks to rely on two of the exceptions:
1) Mrs R ignored an Effective Warning
2)Mrs R made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing that the payee 
was the person she was expecting to pay. 
Did Mrs R ignore an Effective Warning? 
Mrs R cannot be said to have ignored an Effective Warning that she didnt receive. So while 
First Direct might feel justified in not going into further detail about email interception scams 
once it had established that Mrs R had verbally confirmed the account details, it cannot 
demonstrate that it provided an Effective Warning during the telephone call prior to the 
£50,000 payment.
As mentioned, the warning that Mrs R received when she attempted to make the first 
payment in dispute addressed the risks of Buying goods and services and wasnt 
particularly relevant to her circumstances, so I havent discussed it here. 
Under the CRM Code a warning must, as a minimum, be understandable, clear, specific, 
impactful and timely. As noted, Mrs R only saw the warning most relevant to her 
circumstances when she was attempting to make the £1,200 payment, which was later 
reversed. As the warning wasnt displayed as part of the payment journey which caused Mrs R loss, its arguable whether it could meet the definition of timely under the CRM Code. But, 
even if I considered the warning to be timely, I dont think it met the definition of Effective for 
other reasons.
The warning reads as follows:
Caution this could be a scam
WARNING  If someone has told you to mislead us about the reason for your payment and 
choose the wrong payment type, stop. This is a scam.
Fraudsters may pretend to be a genuine business by impersonating them, often using emails 
and invoices. They may ask you to change existing payment details or provide you with new 
details to send your payment to. This could involve a payment you are expecting to make or 
a onetime payment.
What you need to do before making the payment
-Check where youre sending the money or why the payment details may have been 
changed, by contacting the person or company using a phone number you have 
checked is genuine.
-Examine the email address to ensure its the correct company or person.
-Check for any changes to the senders email address. These could be very minor. 
For example, there could just be one character different. 
-Check for any grammatical errors in the email or correspondence, or a change in the 
content or formatting compared with any previous correspondence.
-Even if youre expecting to make the payment, you should still complete these 
checks.
Visit our Fraud Centre for further guidance on how to undertake the required checks before 
proceeding.
WARNING 
By choosing to continue, you agree youve read our warning and are happy to proceed. You 
accept we may not be able to recover your payment if it is sent to a fraudsters account. If 
youre unsure, please stop immediately.
While this warning does contain some useful and relevant information, I think it lacks impact 
overall. The first part of the warning relates to an entirely different type of scam and, in my 
view, the average reader is likely to lose interest after realising that this part of the warning 
doesnt apply to them  particularly given the features of this type of scam. So, I dont think 
the warning is impactful and I dont think it meets the definition of an Effective warning 
under the CRM Code. And, in the circumstances, I dont think Mrs R moved past the warning 
unreasonably. 
Did Mrs R make the payment without a reasonable basis for belief?
Its first important to state that there were highly sophisticated aspects to this scam. The 
fraudster was in contact with both Mrs R and her actual solicitor. The fraudster sent Mrs R 
emails that had as attachments the results of searches that she reasonably believed could 
have only come from her solicitors (which, of course, they had). She was also able to ask 
questions of the solicitors and receive responses. Its evident that she strongly believed that 
the emails had come from her solicitor. Ive also reviewed the contents of the fraudulent emails and, on the whole, I dont think there 
was anything particularly concerning about their contents that might have alerted her to the 
possibility that they had been changed or altered. 
So, Mrs R had very compelling reasons to think that the emails had come from her solicitors 
and wouldnt reasonably have been alerted to the fraud by the contents of the emails alone. 
The fraudsters were also able to explain away a lack of a positive Confirmation of Payee 
result. They said that the account the money was being sent to didnt offer this facility. Thats 
true of some accounts, so isnt an entirely implausible explanation and its clear that Mrs R 
didnt find it so. 
In addition, Mrs R thought she was taking sensible steps to guard against risk after receiving 
the negative CoP result (albeit a different risk  that there was an error in the account details 
shed been given) by making a smaller payment to the account and checking it was received 
before making the larger one. This indicates to me that she wasnt generally being careless 
and was showing caution consistent with the significant value of the transactions.
It can also reasonably be inferred from these actions that if she recognised that there was a 
more than negligible risk that the emails hadnt come from her solicitor, she would have 
taken appropriate steps to counter that risk. So, Ive thought about whether she ought to 
have recognised that risk. 
Mrs R told the bank on more than one occasion (though only once prior to making the 
£50,000 payment) that shed verbally confirmed the account details. Specifically, Mrs R said 
that she spoke on the phone to the solicitors. I dont think this is ambiguous. The fact Mrs R 
went onto make a similar statement in relation to the later £199,000 payment doesnt 
suggest it was a slip of the tongue either. Mrs R says that, professionally, she understood 
spoke to mean emailed but the use of not just spoke, but spoke on the phone makes it 
difficult to see how Mrs R could have believed this.
I think Mrs R must have thought that it was irrelevant whether shed spoken to the solicitors 
or emailed them and the bank were just trying to clarify whether she was confident that the 
account details were correct. As Ive set out, I think that there were very strong reasons for 
her to believe that the emails had come from her solicitor. So, Ive thought about whether it 
was still reasonable for her to hold that belief in light of the events leading up to that payment 
 specifically the written warning and conversation she had with the bank.
In her complaint to our service Mrs R did not deny all knowledge of this kind of scam, only 
that she didnt know how prevalent it was. The warning Ive set out above did explain the risk 
here. Its not clear whether she read that warning at all, or in any detail. But, even if shed 
read a little more than the opening statement of that warning, she would have at least a 
general awareness of the risk. But I dont think a general awareness of the risk was enough 
here. In order to find that Mrs R lacked a reasonable basis for belief, I need to find that she 
understood that there was a risk in her specific circumstances and she decided to proceed 
regardless. She would have needed to have studied the warning in some detail to better 
appreciate that there was a risk that her emails had been intercepted. And, as Ive already 
set out, the warning wasnt effective, I dont think Mrs R unreasonably moved past it and, 
while it contained a number of quite prescriptive steps, it didnt explain that fraudsters could 
seamlessly insert themselves into genuine correspondence, as they had in this case.
During the call prior to the £50,000 payment little was done to explain the context of the 
question about how the account details were obtained. This is understandable, but it does 
mean there was little to shake Mrs Rs belief that she was dealing with the genuine solicitor. I 
think, on balance, she failed to understand the importance of the question being asked and believed, reasonably, that the steps she was taking were the necessary steps to ensure that 
the funds went to the correct account. 
Had First Direct explained in any detail why this question was being asked and that it was 
imperative that she should contact her solicitor by phone regardless of how sure she was 
that any emails were genuine, then my view on this point would have likely been different. 
I dont think the fact that First Direct relied on Mrs Rs statement has much relevance here  
the test is whether Mrs Rs belief was reasonably held, not whether First Direct could have 
prevented the scam or were correct to process the payment. And though I think this is a 
finely balanced point and I consider Mrs Rs response to First Directs question to be 
careless, given the complexity and sophistication of the scam overall, I dont think First 
Direct can rely on this exception to reimbursement and I also dont think her actions amount 
to gross negligence (another exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code). 
That means First Direct should refund Mrs R in full under the provisions of the CRM Code. It 
should also pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date it declined her 
claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement. 
Mrs R has asked First Direct to reimburse her legal fees. While I understand why she 
instructed solicitors  given the amount of the loss and the need to act quickly  I am not 
going to ask First Direct to reimburse those costs. Mrs R could have, without charge, 
complained to all parties involved in the dispute and our service.
Finally, in relation to compensation, I consider the Investigators award of £100 for a piece of 
correspondence that was sent out in error to be reasonable. I can imagine that this caused 
further distress at an already difficult time.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mrs R: 
-The outstanding loss - £50,200 
-8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date it declined her claim 
under the CRM Code to the date of settlement, less any tax lawfully deductible.
-£100 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman