DRN-2455035
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J complain that Bradford & Bingley Plc (Bradford & Bingley) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr J and Mrs J arranged a further advance on their mortgage with a representative of 
Bradford & Bingley in January 1993. During the application they were also sold a MPPI 
policy that covered Mr J against accidents, sickness and unemployment. This was all 
arranged in a meeting. The policy and mortgage ended in 2007. 
Mr J and Mrs J say they were mis-sold the MPPI policy. They say the forms were completed 
by the representative from Bradford & Bingley and they signed them. They say they were 
advised the loan would be looked at more favourably if they took it. They say they werent 
given a choice and didnt need it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr J and Mrs J do not agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr J and Mrs Js case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr J and Mrs Js complaint for the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr J and Mrs J during the meeting with a 
representative in 1993. Ive looked at what they have said about how the policy was sold 
 including that they were told it would help their application if they took it. But this sale 
took place many years ago and memories do fade over time. So, I have also needed to 
look at the sales documentation from the time of sale to get an understanding as to what 
more likely than not happened. 
I can see that there is a separate application form for MPPI and this has been signed by 
Mr J. This would suggest to me that Mr J and Mrs J would have known it was a separate 
product. So, after seeing this, and although I cant be sure what was said in the meeting, 
I think its more likely than not Mr J and Mrs J were given a choice to have the policy and 
the chose it. 
It looks to me that Bradford & Bingley recommended the MPPI to Mr J and Mrs J, and 
because of this, it had a responsibility to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr J as the 
sole policy holder. And it looks like it was suitable based on what Ive seen of Mr Js 
circumstances at the time.
Mr J says he held at least 12 months sick pay with no stated limitation at the time of sale. 
This is an unusually high amount than I would normally see. Mr J also says he had 
savings and shares. The sale took place many years ago and so understandably it is 
difficult to obtain documentation from this time such as terms and conditions of 
employment (sick pay) or bank statements (savings). although Mr J has provided 
documentation about his shares. With this all in mind I think its more likely Mr Js 
existing provision to pay his mortgage if he wasnt working was not as substantial as he 
recalls and because of this I think he would have found some value in having the cover 
provided by the policy. I could also not find any other reason that would make the policy 
unsuitable for him such as a restrictive or limiting term.
Bradford & Bingley has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI 
that Mr J and Mrs J took out. But I cant be sure if it clearly disclosed the costs of the 
policy to them in the meeting. That said, even if it did, I dont think it would have affected 
Mr J and Mrs Js decision to take the policy with their further advance for the same 
reason that I think the policy was suitable.
Its possible Bradford & Bingley didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr J wouldve been affected by any of these. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr J and Mrs J, but I do not uphold their 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I do not uphold Mr J and Mrs Js complaint and so Bradford 
& Bingley Plc does not have to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman