DRN-1565699
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about commission charged by The Share Centre Limited (TSC) on his 
online share account.
He is unhappy because he believed the account was using one commission option, but it 
was actually using a different option, and he feels this was unclear, and that he has been 
overcharged.
What happened
Initially, Mr W opened an online share account with TSC. He was asked to choose between 
two commission options: either Standard Dealer or Frequent Dealer; the key difference 
being the rate of commission charged. Standard Dealer trades are charged at 1% of value, 
subject to a minimum of £7.50, whilst Frequent Dealer trades are fixed at £7.50 per trade, 
with a quarterly account fee of £24. He selected Frequent Dealer.
A few days after the account had opened, TSC sent Mr W two letters, one requesting 
identification documents, and one noting his preferred dealer option and asking him to pay a 
minimum of £24 to the account to cover the quarterly fee. The second letter stated that if the 
cash was not received within 7 days, then the option would revert to standard commission.
One week later, Mr W sent TSC an Individual Savings Account (ISA) transfer-in form by 
post, where he requested this second account be set up with the Standard Dealer 
commission option.
Around two weeks after that, no cash had been received in the online share account, and 
TSC sent a further letter telling Mr W that this account had reverted to Standard Dealer. 
Around eight months later, Mr W used his online share account to trade in large size.  He 
believed that he was using the Frequent Dealer option which is cheaper for larger sized 
trades, and he feels he was overcharged.  He also thinks TSC ought to have made it clearer 
that his account was at standard commission. He would like TSC to refund the difference 
between what he was charged and the lower rate.
After making his complaint to TSC and remaining unsatisfied at their response, he brought it 
to our service where an investigator looked into it. The investigator felt that TSC had acted in 
a fair and reasonable way when informing Mr W of the change in dealer status.
Mr W disagreed and so the complaint was passed on to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint, and I will explain why.It is clear where Mr Ws frustration over commission rates comes from, and why he is 
unhappy; he set up the online share dealing account one way, but subsequently found he 
has been charged using a different commission structure. 
However, TSC has provided copies of letters it sent to Mr W from around the time the 
account was opened, and it is my view that these were sent to Mr W.
Given that Mr W promptly replied to the first letter - providing TSC with his identification 
documents - it seems unlikely to me that he did not receive the second letter sent the same 
day which explained the need to deposit cash in the account and what would happen if he 
did not.
Mr Ws ISA transfer-in form, asking that a second account be opened, is relevant because 
TSCs platform only allows a user to select one of the dealer options across all of their 
personal accounts.
Shortly after this, TSC wrote to Mr W, saying that the online share account had now reverted 
to standard commission  the letter had a bold heading saying Cancellation of Frequent 
dealer option.  Again, it seems unlikely to me that he would not have received this letter.
Whilst its true that TSC did not try another way to contact Mr W about the change, its my 
opinion that they took reasonable care in informing him, and it was reasonable to assume his 
tacit approval in the circumstances, given that he had:
a) not deposited cash in the online share account to cover the quarterly fee, and 
b) sent in a request to set up his transferred in ISA with the Standard Dealer option.
It is not clear from the information I have seen as to why it took Mr W up to eight months to 
notice the change. However, the TSC platform shows that the user can see which 
commission option is selected, and also during the trade process just ahead of proceeding 
with the order, the user is shown the approximate cost of commission for each trade. At this 
point, before trading, Mr W would have been able to check the commission, and decide 
whether or not to proceed.
Mr W says that he does not trade often, but he would have saved money using the Frequent 
Dealer option as he was trading in large size. Whilst this is no doubt true, and allowable 
under TSCs commission structure, he would have been able to switch to Frequent Dealer 
by requesting a change to TSC at any point.
With regards to Mr Ws complaint that TSC ought to have explained the dealer options to 
him more clearly, his account is Execution Only, so TSC is not obliged to advise on the 
best dealer option for users.
Whilst this is not the outcome Mr W would have liked, it is my opinion that TSC has acted in 
a reasonable and fair manner and so I wont be asking them to refund the commission 
charged.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against The Share Centre Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.Christian Holder
Ombudsman