Page 1 of 4The complaint
Mr C complains about the suitability of the advice he was given in 2013 by an appointed 
representative of Openwork Limited, to transfer his personal pension plan (PPP) to an 
alternative provider. 
What happened
In 2013 Mr C met with Openwork to discuss his retirement planning and review his pension 
arrangements. A fact-find completed by Openwork noted the following regarding Mr Cs 
personal and financial circumstances:
He was married with one dependent and was 65 at the time of the advice
He was self-employed and owned his own business with earnings from this of around
£20,000 per annum
He had joint savings of £50,000 and his main residence was worth £350,000
He was already in receipt of his state pension and taking benefits from another PPP.
His remaining PPP was held with provider [X] and was made up of:
A Retirement Annuity Contract (RAC) which carried a guaranteed growth rate to the
fund value of 4% (approx. 3.2% after charges). No further payments could be made
into this plan. (Fund value - £12,120.40 and transfer value - £14,521.40)
A Defined Contribution (DC) pension invested in the With-Profits fund (fund value -
£54,416.33 and transfer value - £58,884.27).
Total guaranteed growth across both plans was £1,480.29 per year.
Mr Cs attitude to risk (ATR) was recorded as cautious and it was noted that he was an 
inexperienced investor.
His financial objectives showed that he wanted to take his remainin g PPP benefits aged 68 
and that this shou
ld provide him with a minimum annual gross pension income of £22,000 
(including his existing pensio n income). His objectives fo r the PPP wer e also:
To provide a guaranteed minimum additional income at age 68
To provide death benefits for his wife from a fund which could still grow in value from
exposure to investment markets.
DRN-3684016Page 2 of 4Openwork advised Mr C to transfer his [X] PPP into a retirement portfolio held with an 
alternative provider [Y]. He paid an initial advice fee and agreed an on-going fee of 0.5% in 
order to receive annual financial reviews.
In July 2021 Mr C complained to Openwork that the transfer advice it had given him in 2013 
hadnt been suitable, and hed lost out financially as a result. But Openwork didnt uphold his 
complaint. It said, in summary, that the advice to transfer was suitable as it met his financial 
objectives and the fund selected matched his ATR. It also made specific reference to some 
points raised by Mr C, but as both parties are aware of these I dont propose to repeat them 
here. Openwork also thought hed made his complaint outside of the required time limits, so 
didnt consent to it being considered by our service. 
Mr C didnt agree so complained to our service. Our services jurisdiction over the complaint 
was the subject of an ombudsmans decision, which concluded that Mr Cs complaint was 
within our jurisdiction and therefore one that our service could consider. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She thought the plan with 
[Y] matched Mr Cs objectives of providing his required retirement income and death 
benefits, and the selected fund matched his ATR. In summary, she thought:
[Y] provided Mr C with a guaranteed minimum level of income at his selected 
retirement date, which his PPP held with [X] did not.
The death benefits provided by [Y] meant the funds remaining in the plan after his 
death would be available to his wife either as income or a lump sum. And [X] did not 
offer this benefit.
The guaranteed growth to the income base from [Y] was greater than that provided 
by [X].
But Mr C didnt agree. He gave a detailed and lengthy response to which Openwork 
responded. I dont propose to repeat the detail of the exchange here as both parties are 
aware of the points made and responses given, but no agreement could be reached so Mr C 
asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of detailed points and provided a lot of evidence, and I have 
looked at it all. Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to 
the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focussed on what I consider to be the heart of the 
matter, whether the advice to transfer from provider [Y] to [X] was suitable, rather than 
comment on each point in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr C. Rather it reflects 
the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
And having considered everything, I agree with the view of the investigator, for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
When assessing the suitability of the advice given to Mr C by Openwork, I have to consider it 
in light of the information available when the advice was given, and not by using hindsight. 
Ive also looked at it in the context of the rules and guidance in existence at the time. Page 3 of 4Within the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated 
business to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Openwork advised Mr C 
were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Openwork, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objectives and risk profile. 
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements of COBS 9.2.2R, 
Openwork needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice 
met Mr Cs objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the 
requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
I note that Openwork had had an ongoing client relationship with Mr C for a number of years. 
And an updated fact find was completed for the advice given in 2013. So Im satisfied that 
Openwork had carried out sufficient enquiries to establish the necessary information about 
Mr Cs circumstances, his financial objectives and his ATR.
So although Im satisfied Openwork had done enough to comply with the requirements to 
gather information, for the transfer to be in Mr Cs best interests it would usually need to 
have a good chance of significantly improving on the benefits available in the existing PPP 
provided by [X]. And having seen the suitability document produced by Openwork which 
contained its recommendation to transfer, I can see it has done this. It has broken down the 
benefits of the proposed PPP from [Y], it showed how those matched his objectives of a 
guaranteed minimum income on retirement, and the required death benefits, and showed 
how these werent possible if he remained in the PPP from [X].
I understand that Mr C is concerned that the information provided in the suitability report, 
specifically regarding the growth rate in the plan [Y], was inaccurate (my emphasis):
Switched total transfer amount (this is higher than the fund value used by [X] to which 
the guaranteed growth rates apply) to [Y] of £73,365.67, less initial adviser charge 
(3%) of £2200.97 leaves (£71,164.7 less first year on-going adviser charge of 0.5% = 
£355.82) £70,808.88 to be invested. This will attract a minimum growth of 3.5% after 
all charges i.e. £2,478.31 added to the secure income base for the first year.
Mr C believes this is factually incorrect, because the 3.5% growth rate is before charges. 
And Openwork accept that this wording is incorrect, and it should have read 3% after all 
charges or 3.5% (not including adviser charges). But having considered this point I dont 
think it likely it would have made a difference to either the advice, or what Mr C decided to 
do. I say this because his objectives in 2013 were clear  to secure a minimum guaranteed 
income at his selected retirement date, and to secure improved death benefits for his wife. 
So the growth of the fund wasnt his primary objective, but guaranteeing his income and 
improving the death benefits available were - and these benefits were not available with his 
current provider [X] but were provided by transferring to [Y]. And the investment funds within 
[Y] matched his cautious ATR.
Its important to note that I consider that theres sometimes more than one product or 
approach that might meet the consumers circumstances and objectives. Another adviser 
might take a different approach, but that doesnt mean what was originally recommended 
was unsuitable. Mr C has said that the advice hes recently been given supports his 
conclusion that the initial advice was unsuitable. But Im afraid I dont agree. In 2013 his Page 4 of 4circumstances were different, and the advice given wasnt unsuitable as it matched his 
objectives and ATR at the time. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman