DRN-2705769
The complaint
Mr M complains AXA Insurance UK Plc have unfairly declined his contents insurance claim 
for his bike.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
AXA declined the claim. From looking at the policy I can see it says cover isnt 
provided:
Unless there are signs of damage caused by the thief (or thieves) to access the 
item(s), or they used violence or deception to steal Your item(s), or the item(s) were 
under Your Personal Supervision at the time of the theft;
In order to have a successful claim Mr M would need to meet the above conditions 
and it is for him to prove he has a valid claim. My role is to decide whether this term 
has been applied fairly by the business
In June 2020 Mr Ms bike was stored in a communal area of a block of flats. Mr M 
said the bike was noted as being there when his wife returned home late in the 
evening, but it was discovered missing the following day
I can see from the claim notes no damage was reported in relation to the main 
building. The initial notes say Mr M believed the bike couldve been taken by 
someone who had access to the building. There was no reported damage, so I can 
see why Mr M would have thought this is a likely explanation
Mr M later said he believed someone used deception to gain access to the building 
this was an explanation of what possibly happened given by the Police. Our 
investigator said there was no evidence or information available to support this was 
definitely the cause
Mr M said this is contrary to what AXA said in their response to him and he was 
advised, although there had been deception used to enter the building, no deception 
was applied directly in order to steal the bike - and this was why they declined the 
claim.
Ive looked at the correspondence between Mr M and AXA. Following AXA initially 
declining the claim, it was investigated again by their technical team. I can see they 
said:
[Mr M} has suggested below that someone may have used deception to gain entry 
there is no evidence of this. In addition, the exclusion states 'deception to steal your 
item(s)'. The suggestion is that deception may have been used to gain entry to the 
property, not to steal the bike (for example, if a person poses as a Police Officer and 
asks to borrow your phone and you give it to them and they run off, that could be 
considered deception being used to steal the item)."
Considering what AXA said I dont agree with Mr Ms comments. I think this means 
AXA considered what Mr M said, and offered further theoretical explanation to what 
he said, but their opinion remained the same - that no evidence had been provided 
that deception had been used to gain entry
Mr M said AXA have not been able to clearly define the meaning of deception in 
relation to the policy and the term is ambiguous and unenforceable. But the facts of 
how the bike was stolen are unknown  and there is no evidence to support any likely 
cause, including any form of deception.
The term allows the claim to be met if the bike was stolen by deception, but the 
circumstances of the theft are unknown, and while possible explanations have been 
provided, there is no information to support these explanations. So Im not satisfied 
this term has been met. And, I conclude AXAs decision to decline the claim is not 
obviously wrong and I wont be interfering in it
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman