DRN-3145166
The complaint
Mr B, acting on behalf of the estate of Mrs B, complains that National Savings and 
Investments (NS&I) acted without the correct authority regarding premium bonds owned by 
the late Mrs B.
What happened
Mr B says when his mother went in to care he found premium bonds belonging to both his 
mother and his late father. He contacted NS&I and says he was told to complete a form 
which he did and a payment of £75 was made. He then received a letter asking for power of 
attorney for his mother which he chose not to provide at that time. After his mother passed 
away he contacted NS&I about her premium bonds. He then received conflicting information 
about when the premium bonds had been cashed. Mr B says he contacted NS&I on several 
occasions to try to resolve the issue.
NS&I issued a final response letter in January 2021. It said it received a death of holders 
form in August 2020 and it then wrote to Mr B to say that Mrs Bs account had been repaid in 
December 2016. It then incorrectly sent a letter saying the account was repaid after receipt 
of the death of holders form for which it apologised and offered to pay £30 for the upset and 
inconvenience caused.
Our investigator accepted that NS&I had repaid the late Mrs Bs bonds in December 2016. 
They said NS&I had provided a copy of a repayment form that had been signed by the late 
Mrs B. They noted Mr Bs comments about his mother not being capable of completing the 
form at the time but noted that her bank account details were on the form and evidence had 
been provided to show the payment was made to the account. They said that NS&I had 
accepted that it had sent incorrect information about the date of payment and they thought 
the offer of £30 was reasonable for this. Based on the evidence they didnt uphold this 
complaint. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view. He said his late mother couldnt have claimed 
personally as the paperwork was found when he cleared the house and it was in the loft 
which the late Mrs B wouldnt have been able to access. He said Mrs B was in a nursing 
home from September 2016. He thought his late mothers premium bonds had been cashed 
and her account closed without the power of authority and so unlawfully.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B was initially concerned that his late mothers premium bonds hadnt been cashed. He 
was then concerned that this had happened without the correct authority and that a closing 
statement hadnt been provided.
I have looked through the evidence provided and can see that a form was completed in 
November 2016 containing Mrs Bs details and requesting that all bonds be cashed after the 
next draw. NS&I has confirmed this happened in December 2016 and so this appears to be 
in line with the signed instruction form.
I note Mr Bs comments about this late mother not having the capacity at the time to 
complete the form, but the form does include her correct details and I have nothing to 
suggest this form wasnt correctly completed. As the form asked for the premium bonds to 
be cashed and this took pace, NS&I has explained that the balance was reduced to nil. It 
said that when a claim is processed by the team that deals with claims after death a letter is 
sent out which is what Mr B had received in regard to his late fathers premium bonds. 
However, as Mrs B had applied personally to have her premium bonds repaid then a letter 
wouldnt have been sent.
I note the concerns Mr B has raised about the process and authority regarding the 
repayment of his late mothers premium bonds. However, I do not find I have enough to say 
that NS&I did anything wrong. As the repayment was received into the account that had 
been requested on the form completed and signed in 2016 I do not find that there has been 
any detriment to the estate of Mrs B.
There was an issue with the incorrect information being provided about the date of the 
repayment, but NS&I apologised for this and paid £30 compensation which I find reasonable.
Therefore, overall, I do not require NS&I to do anything further in response to this complaint.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman