DRN-4211665
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wouldnt refund money he lost in a scam.
What happened
What Mr B says:
In October 2019, Mr B received a cold call from a Japanese number. The caller was said to 
be representing a firm who were dealing with the reissue of shares in an old company Mr B 
previously held shares in  which I will refer to as company A. 
Mr B recalled he had owned shares in A previously, and the scammer sent him a copy of a 
share certificate. Mr B was asked to send £6,362.09 to enable the reissue of shares and was 
told the money would be returned within days. No funds were returned. 
He was then contacted by a solicitor from another firm  who said there were warrants 
attached to the shares (enabling more shares to be bought) and if he wanted to take 
advantage of those, he should pay more money  so Mr B made the second payment of 
£20,548.91.
Mr B was then told that another investor couldnt afford to buy their warrants and Mr B 
agreed to buy those  sending another £43,789.89.
Mr B was then told he needed to pay £30,522.20 to get the shares released  which he did.
No funds or shares were received and Mr B lost touch with the scammers. He then realised 
he had been scammed. He called Lloyds on 5 December 2019 to ask that the second 
payment should be recalled. He contacted Lloyds again on 13 January 2020 to say he had 
been the victim of a scam. (continued)
The payments made by Mr B were:
Date Payment Benefic
iaryAmount
18 October 2019 Online international payment - euros 1 £6,362.09
29 October 2019 Online international payment - euros 1 £20,548.91
7 November 2019 Online international payment - euros 2 £43,789.89
26 November 2019 Online international payment - euros 2 £30,522.20
Total loss £101,223.09
Mr B says he feels shame and embarrassment because of what happened. He has young 
children who depend on him. He has had to seek financial help from his family, which was 
embarrassing for him. He has had to re-mortgage two houses to raise money to live. Hes 
been depressed and experienced sleepless nights.
Mr B says the payments were high value, to a new payee, and in foreign currency. This was 
unusual, and so Lloyds shouldve intervened. If they had done so, the scam wouldve been 
uncovered and stopped. Mr B said Lloyds should refund the money he paid, plus 
compensation of £500.
What Lloyds said:
Lloyds said they couldve done more to protect Mr B. They refunded 50% of the third and 
fourth payment, plus 8% per annum simple interest (£7,453.20). They paid compensation of 
£150.
Our investigation so far:
Mr B said that wasnt enough and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator agreed with 
what Lloyds did to resolve Mr Bs complaint. But he also said Lloyds shouldve intervened in 
the second payment.
But - he also said Mr B couldve done more to protect himself  he had some investment 
experience; and he couldve done more research into company A. If he had, that wouldve 
shown that A had gone into liquidation, and there had been publicity about scammers 
targeting previous investors in A. So  he said Mr B should bear 50% of the losses of the 
second, third and fourth payment. 
Lloyds agreed with this, but Mr B didnt. He said he couldnt have contacted company A - as 
they had gone into liquidation. And as he was dealing with what he thought was a known 
intermediary, he shouldnt be expected to have done further due diligence. And so Mr Bs 
complaint has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im sorry to hear that Mr B has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that he 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Mr B didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, he is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to online payments made to a UK beneficiary 
and in this case, the payments were made an overseas account. 
I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B when 
he made the payment, or whether they should have done more than they did. I have 
considered the position carefully.
Lloyds have told us that none of the payments in question were triggered for further 
investigation when they were made. So  I need to consider if that was reasonable, or not.
I looked at Mr Bs account, and I think its fair to say he made a number of fairly high value 
payments from time to time as follows:
- January 2019: £2,135
- February 2019: £1,250
- March 2019: £5,170
- June 2019: £1,703
- July 2019: £2,000
- September 2019: £4,635
So, I can see why the first payment wasnt identified and held by Lloyds for further inquiries  
it wasnt sufficiently out of character with how Mr B used his account.
And - theres a balance to be struck: Lloyds has obligations to be alert to fraud and scams 
and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction 
as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, I think 
Lloyds acted reasonably in processing the first payment.
I then looked at the next three payments  and clearly, they are of a much higher value than 
was normal for Mr B; and were international currency payments. So  I agree that Lloyds shouldve looked more closely at them, withheld the payments, contacted Mr B, and asked 
him questions about them. But they didnt.
So here, I agree that on balance, Lloyds should be liable in the first instance for the value of 
those three payments  totalling £94,861.0. 
But  thats not the end of the story. I must consider if Mr B could also have better protected 
himself, and whether its reasonable that he should bear some of the loss, and I think he 
should. I say that as:
- He had some experience in investing: as he held shares in A already and told Lloyds 
he had invested in other shares from time to time.
- He was initially asked to pay £6,362.09 which was to be repaid to him within a few 
days. It wasnt  but Mr B still went ahead with the other payments. I dont think that 
was a reasonable thing for Mr B to do.
- The expected returns arent completely clear in what Mr B has told us and Lloyds. 
But it appears that he was told he had £16,000 worth of shares which would be worth 
£48,000 at the time of the first payment. This, to me, seemed too good to be true.
- It appears Mr B paid out more than £100,000 without taking any third party, 
independent advice about the expected returns he could make, or the status of 
company A.  I think its reasonable to expect him to have done so. This wouldve 
uncovered the history of company A and the incidence of scammers associated with 
it.
- As our investigator said, a simple online search on company A wouldve revealed 
that it was liquidated in 2008 and had been the subject of many scams  whereby 
investors in it were contacted by scammers in the same way as Mr B was. But I didnt 
see evidence that Mr B investigated A sufficiently  and I think its reasonable to 
expect him to have done so, given the amount of money involved.
- He was contacted by two different persons from two different firms about company A 
and its shares  which shouldve sounded suspicious to Mr B .
- The payments were to two different payees  which shouldve sounded suspicious to 
Mr B, when they were for the same purpose  to release and deal in shares in 
company A.
Therefore, I think its fair to ask Mr B to share 50% of his losses with Lloyds. Lloyds have 
already refunded the amount of the third and fourth payment, plus interest at 8% per annum 
simple, plus compensation of £150. I agree with that.
This decision is that Lloyds should also refund 50% of the second payment of £20,548.91, 
i.e. £10,274.45, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.
Recovery
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether Lloyds took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost funds. I can see that they initiated contact 
with the overseas bank on 5 December 2019 for the second payment (Mr B asked Lloyds to 
recall this payment then), and on 13 January 2020 for the other payments - which is when 
Mr B advised Lloyds of the scam. So  Lloyds did what they should have. But they were 
advised there were no funds left to return to Mr B. I note that its the case that where an 
overseas bank is involved, the chances of recovery are lower than for a UK bank.Mr B has argued that when he contacted Lloyds on 5 December 2019 to request a recall of 
the second payment, Lloyds should then have started a scam investigation. I listened to the 
call. In it, Mr B asked for a recall  and said it had been agreed with the recipient that it was 
to be returned. He didnt state it was a scam  and therefore I dont think its reasonable to 
expect Lloyds to have done anything until January 2020.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must:
Refund 50% of the second payment of £20,548.91, i.e. £10,274.45, plus interest at 
8% per annum simple from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman