DRN-3476345
The complaint
Miss L says Healthcare Finance Limited (HFL) has unfairly declined her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Below, Ive summarised the material facts in this case:
On 5 November 2019, Miss L borrowed £1,399 from HFL to pay for invisible aligner 
treatment from a company Ill call Business A.
Regrettably, Business A ceased trading on 29 November 2019 after its parent 
company went into administration.
Miss L learned of Business As insolvency in January 2020 when she searched online. 
As she hadnt received her aligners, she emailed Business A on 21 January 2020 to 
cancel the contract and request a refund of her deposit. The loan broker (the broker) 
also received this email. I understand Miss L also called the broker on several 
occasions.
On 2 February 2020, the broker emailed Miss L to say it expected the aligners to be 
delivered by the end of the month.
Miss L received her aligners at the end of February 2020. However, an information 
booklet she received with her aligners referred to a personalised movement chart, 
which Miss L says she did not receive.
Above all, Miss L is unhappy that Business A didnt provide any aftercare.
Miss L contacted us in March 2020. She said she should only have to pay the cost 
price of the aligners and wanted the broker and/or HFL to adjust her loan accordingly.
On 4 August 2020, the broker replied (on behalf of HFL) to say:
the supplier set up two email accounts to continue to provide support (and 
these accounts were still active)
Miss L was told about these email accounts on 3 March 2020
Miss L hadnt made some of her contractual payments  and had tried to 
recover some shed made via chargeback
it had reviewed the terms and conditions and it didnt think aftercare was 
included in the contract price  instead, it was merely customer support
Miss L had purchased bespoke medical equipment (the aligners) not an 
ongoing service or guarantee of a certain outcome, and as the aligners had 
been delivered, its says the contract was fulfilled.
In November 2020, Miss L emailed us to say she was at the end of her treatment. She 
said the aligners hadnt straightened her teeth and had caused some dental issues 
that will need correcting by an orthodontist. And she complained that HFLs records 
didnt accurately reflect what shed paid and when.
In September 2021, Miss L sent us evidence to show Business A wasnt registered 
with the Care Quality Commission (CQC)  and she says it should have been.
One of our investigators didnt think it was unfair for HFL to decline Miss Ls claim 
under section 75 of the CCA.
Miss L disagreed with our investigators conclusions and asked that an Ombudsman 
make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 April 2022, which explained why I was minded to 
uphold this complaint. It included the following provisional findings:
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, 
in certain circumstances, the finance provider is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
In this case, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant. Under sections 9 and 
49 respectively, any goods supplied must be of satisfactory quality  that is, they must 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  and any service 
provided must be performed with reasonable care and skill. Reasonable care and skill isnt 
defined in the CRA. However, its generally held to mean the degree of care and skill to be 
expected of someone who provides those services of ordinary competence and experience.
Did Miss L cancel the contract?
Miss L says she cancelled her contract with Business A when she learned of its insolvency.
Shes referred me to the email she sent Business A and the broker on 21 January 2020. In 
her email, Miss L referred to what appears to be a pre-contract email from Business A, 
which says the aligners go into production within 3 working days and production takes 
approximately 4-6 weeks. She also referred to clause 6.4 of the terms and conditions, 
which says:
If our supply of the products is delayed by an event outside our control then we will 
contact you as soon as possible to let you know and we will take steps to minimise 
the effect of the delay. Provided we do this we will not be liable for delays caused by 
the event, but if there is a risk of substantial delay you may contact us to end the 
contract and receive a refund for any products you have paid for but not received.
In her email, she makes it clear she doesnt want to receive the aligners and, relying on 
clause 6.4, says shes entitled to end the contract and receive a full refund.
Miss L purchased the aligners on 5 November 2019 and received them at the end of 
February 2020.
I dont think I need to decide whether there was a risk of substantial delay when Miss L 
emailed Business A on 21 January 2020, or whether this meant she could end the contract 
in accordance with the terms and conditions or, alternatively, for breach of contract. I say 
this because Miss L subsequently received and used the aligners. In effect, she affirmed 
the contract.
Was aftercare included in the contract price?
The broker (on behalf of HFL) says its reviewed Business As terms and conditions and it 
doesnt think aftercare was included in the contract price. I disagree.
The broker has sent us a copy of some terms and conditions. Its not clear to me if theyre 
the only applicable terms and conditions: they seem to be both a terms of use agreement 
for Business As website and a contract of sale. And they seem to be incomplete. For 
example, clause 6.2 (Warranty) says Business A shall not be liable:for any defects that are caused by failures to follow directions including (but not 
limited to)not providing bi-weekly photo updates
Providing bi-weekly photo updates isnt mentioned anywhere else in the terms and 
conditions. However, on page 8 of the information booklet Miss L received with her aligners, 
it says:
Send us bi-weekly pictures of your teeth via email to [email address]. This is to 
ensure your Smile Guarantee and for our orthodontists to keep track of your 
progress and let you know if they suspect any issues.
This point is repeated on page 16 under the title Send us your pictures:
In order for our orthodontists to properly manage your treatment, you will need to 
regularly send us pictures of your teeth. Not only will this help us keep track of your 
progress, but will be important in the unlikely case our orthodontists suspect issues 
with your treatment.
Miss L has also sent us screenshots of Business As website. A frequently-asked-
questions (FAQ) page includes the following questions and answers:
How do I make sure everything is going well during my treatment?
Your personal care consultant will be in touch via phone and email with you during 
the whole length of your treatment to check-in with you, review your progress and 
answer any questions you might have.

Will I have to meet a dentist?
No, but your treatment is in good hands! One of our dentists will review your case 
and personal treatment plan, and our team of specialists will be supporting you at 
each step of your treatment.
The website also includes the following statements:
Customer service powered by empathy: Teeth straightening isnt a walk in the park. 
Its a marathon. And thats why our customer care team are with you every step of 
the wayfrom treatment to aftercareto offer service built on empathy and 
passion.
We eliminate the need for expensive dental visits by offering the same professional 
orthodontic supervision found in-office through remote teledentistry without 
compromising on quality and safety.
The reference to providing bi-weekly photo updates in the terms and conditions only 
makes sense if aftercare was included in the contract price  and when read alongside the 
information booklet that was included with the aligners.
In any event, section 50(1) of the CRA says:
Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including as a term of the 
contract anything that is said or written to the consumer, by or on behalf of the 
trader, about the trader or the service, if(a) it is taken into account by the consumer when deciding to enter into the 
contract, or
(b) it is taken into account by the consumer when making any decision about 
the service after entering into a contract.
Given the information provided by Business A before and after Miss L purchased the 
aligners  which Ive set out above  Im satisfied that aftercare was either expressly 
included in the contract price or is included by virtue of section 50(1) of the CRA.
What aftercare did Miss L receive?
Much is made on Business As website and in the other materials Ive reviewed about the 
aftercare Miss L could expect to receive: for example, orthodontists will manage your 
treatment and keep track of your progress, a team of specialists and a personal care 
consultant will be with you every step of the way, etc.
The broker (on behalf of HFL) says the supplier set up two email accounts to continue to 
provide support after it ceased trading. However, when Miss L tried to use them in 
July 2020, she received an immediate reply, which said:
Address not found: Your message wasnt delivered to [email address] because the 
domain [ ] couldnt be found. Check for typos or unnecessary spaces and try again.
HFL hasnt provided any evidence to show that this was anomalous or that that the email 
addresses were active at any point after Miss L received her aligners.
Based on the evidence Ive seen so far, Im satisfied that Miss L received no aftercare at all 
and there was, therefore, a breach of contract.
Whats the appropriate remedy, if any, for this breach of contract?
As Im considering the liability of HFL for a like claim, its important I consider what 
remedies or relief a court may order against the supplier in similar circumstances. When 
Miss L first referred her complaint to our service, she said she wanted a price reduction. 
Thats something a court could award in a case like this  and I think its the appropriate 
remedy here.
However, as I dont know how Business A calculated the contract price or the value or cost 
of the aligners and retainers Miss L received, I must, necessarily, paint with a broad brush. 
In the absence of any information which would help me calculate a more accurate award, I 
think a 30 percent reduction in the contract price is fair, practical and proportionate.
If Miss L or HFL think this approach is unfair, they can explain why in reply to this 
provisional decision and tell me what they think I should do instead.
Miss L told us shes paid off her loan in full. In reply to this provisional decision, Id like HFL 
to provide an accurate statement of account. I can then make a clear direction in my final 
decision.
All other matters
Miss L says the aligners havent straightened her teeth and have caused some dental 
issues that will need correcting by an orthodontist. She hasnt explained what those dental 
issues are, or provided any evidence from her dentist or a suitably qualified medical 
practitioner that confirms that they were caused by the aligners and, specifically, that they were caused by a breach of contract, either because the aligners were not of satisfactory 
quality or because she didnt receive aftercare. And the terms and conditions Ive seen 
make it clear that [Business A] does not guarantee a successful treatment outcome. 
Individual results will vary. Ive therefore seen insufficient evidence to safely say there was 
a further breach of contract (or misrepresentation) by Business A for which HFL may be 
liable.
Finally, Miss L says Business A wasnt registered with the Care Quality Commission 
(CQC) and it should have been. Shes also referred me to information on the 
General Dental Councils website about the requirements for corporate dentistry under the 
Dentistry Act 1984  which she says Business A didnt comply with. I understand Miss Ls 
concerns. However, I can only consider HFLs liability for any misrepresentation or breach 
of contract by Business A  not wider questions concerning its compliance with its various 
legal and regulatory requirements.
Miss L has confirmed that shes received my provisional decision and has nothing to add.
The broker (on behalf of HFL) has confirmed that HFL received my provisional decision. It 
says it is willing to accept the decision. However, it says Miss L disputed 13 loan payments. 
It says it was charged £15 for each dispute by its payment provider and asks me to deduct 
the amount it had to pay in fees (£195) from any award I make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, Im required by DISP 3.6.3R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to 
take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As HFL has accepted my provisional decision, and Miss L hasnt asked me to consider any 
further comments or evidence, I confirm my provisional findings. My reasons remain the 
same.
I will, however, briefly address two points.
First, Ive carefully considered the brokers point about fees. From what its said, its not 
clear to me if it (the broker) incurred the fees or if HFL incurred the fees  although I dont 
think it matters. The evidence Ive seen suggests Miss L successfully used Mastercards 
chargeback scheme. In the circumstances, I dont see why she should have to pay any 
fees incurred by either.Second, given the disputed payments, I asked HFL to send me an accurate statement of 
account. It hasnt. I shall therefore make my award on the basis that Miss L has, as she 
says, repaid the loan in full.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Healthcare Finance Limited to 
refund 30% of the contract price with simple interest at 8% per year from the date Miss L 
repaid her loan in full until the date she receives the refund.
If HFL considers it necessary to deduct tax from the interest element of this award, it should 
provide Miss L with a certificate of tax deduction if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman