DRN-2298245
The complaint
Its agreed that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs E says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs E took out at the same time as she applied for a 
store card in November 1998 whilst shopping in the store. 
The policy covered Mrs E in the event she was off work sick or she lost her job unexpectedly 
and became unemployed. It paid 15% of the outstanding monthly card balance while Mrs E 
was off work until she either returned to work or the card balance was cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs E mainly told us that the policy terms werent ever properly explained and it wasnt clear 
to her that having PPI was optional  she said the salesperson largely completed the form 
and she simply signed it thinking she would be getting the store card. Mrs E also told us she 
had no need for the policy as she had good employee benefits and a very secure job.
Mrs E asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint so it comes to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es case.
After looking carefully at the complaint, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain my reasons.
AXA has given us a copy of Mrs Es store card application. At the top of the application form 
that Mrs E signed when she took out her store card theres a section in bold type and block 
capitals headed ACCOUNT COVER. Theres a brief description of the benefits this offers 
and it says: it costs just a penny in the pound on your monthly balance.
Mrs E has signed next to where it says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account 
CoverPlease debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until further notice. 
I dont know what (if anything) was said to Mrs E about the PPI. But I think it wouldve been 
clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs E to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. 
The salesperson may well have filled in some of the details on the form for Mrs E but that 
doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold. Mrs E signed the completed application next to where it 
says: Sign it only if you want to be legally bound by its terms. 
I think its reasonable to expect Mrs E wouldve first read through anything she was asked to 
sign when entering into a new financial commitment. So it seems to me that by signing the form 
Mrs E was indicating that she agreed with the information on the form at the time  even if, 
understandably, she has forgotten this now.  
I havent seen enough information overall to be able to say that AXA didnt make Mrs E aware 
that the policy was optional or that it was added to her account without her consent. On 
balance, I think AXA did enough to make Mrs E aware that she had a choice about buying the 
PPI and that she chose to take it. 
No PPI recommendation was made by AXA. This means that AXA didnt have to check if the 
policy was suitable for Mrs E. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mrs E enough clear 
information to decide if the policy was right for her, taking into account her personal 
circumstances. Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. So I need to consider if Mrs E wouldve acted differently, and not 
bought the policy, if better information had been provided. 
Mrs E was entitled to 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months half pay from her 
employer. 
This policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Mrs E was off work sick or disabled  and 
cleared her card balance if she wasnt well enough to go back to work. The policy wouldve 
paid out on top of sick pay providing Mrs E with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially 
bearing in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled 
and she wouldve had only half her normal pay after 6 months off work sick.
There can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure. And PPI wouldve paid out, in 
addition to any work benefits, providing a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a 
difficult time if she wasnt working. So its fair to say that PPI offered Mrs E better protection 
than she couldve relied on getting through her employer.
For all these reasons, I think the policy offered Mrs E useful benefits in her particular 
situation.  
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But this didnt affect Mrs E. She couldve 
taken advantage of all the main policy benefits. So I dont think its likely that having more 
information about what the policy didnt cover wouldve put Mrs E off taking out the PPI.
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mrs E clear enough information about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But the information Ive seen suggests that she chose to take out the policy when 
she didnt have to. 
The policy provided the cover briefly described on the application form and there was an 
indication of how the cost would be worked out each month. So it looks like Mrs E was 
happy to pay for the PPI at the time as she agreed to pay the monthly premium when she 
filled in the application form.
The policy seems to have been affordable for her when she took it out so thats not a 
reason for me to uphold the complaint. 
Mrs E couldve cancelled the policy at no cost at all within the first 30 days  and she 
couldve cancelled it at any time afterwards at no extra cost if she decided it wasnt 
something she wanted to pay for each month. Looked at overall, given the useful benefits PPI offered Mrs E, I think it unlikely she wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think she still 
wouldve taken out the policy. 
So I dont find that Mrs E has lost out as a result of anything that AXA did wrong  and 
theres nothing it needs to do to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman