DRN-2811817
The complaint
Mr C complains that The One Stop Money Shop Limited was irresponsible in its lending to 
him.
What happened
Mr C was provided with two loans by The One Stop Money Shop. The details are set out 
below.
Loan Date Amount Term (months) Repaid
1 10/04/2018 £300 12 29/03/2019
2 12/02/2019 £700 12 05/09/2019
Mr C says that at the time of the loans, he had several other loans outstanding with other 
lenders. He says he was taking out new loans to repay existing debt and that the loans 
provided by The One Stop Money Shop made his financial situation worse.
The One Stop Money Shop says that it has a detailed credit model which takes into account 
the information Mr C provided as well as third party data to determine affordability and 
creditworthiness. It says that based on its checks the loans were affordable for Mr C.
Our adjudicator didnt think he had seen enough to say that loan 1 shouldnt have been 
provided but he didnt think that loan 2 shouldve been lent. He thought that by loan 2, 
proportionate checks would have shown that Mr C was having problems managing his 
money, was making use of other short term loan providers and it was unlikely he would be 
able to sustainably repay the loan.
The One Stop Money Shop didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said the loans were for 
12 months and werent payday loans and that they were provided for specific one-off events. 
It said Mr C made loan applications after the two loans had been provided and it declined 
these applications due to concerns that Mr C might be becoming reliant on this type of 
borrowing. It said it hadnt recorded any negative information on Mr Cs credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
The One Stop Money Shop needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure that Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the 
repayment amounts and the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that The One Stop Money Shop should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that The One Stop Money Shop was 
required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the 
loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Before the first loan was provided, The One Stop Money Shop gathered information about 
Mr Cs income and expenses and carried out a credit check. Mr Cs declared monthly 
income was confirmed as £1,580 and given the monthly repayments of less than £50 I find 
that the checks carried out were proportionate.
The checks suggested the loan was affordable and having considered the information 
received through the credit check I do not find that this raised concerns that would have 
required further verification to take place.
Therefore, as I think the checks were proportionate and these suggested the loan was 
affordable, I do not find I can say loan 1 shouldnt have been provided.
Loan 2 was provided before loan 1 had been repaid and was for a larger amount, £700. The 
monthly repayments on loan 2 were for around £110 which combined with the repayments 
on loan 1 gave a total of around £160. While this appeared affordable based on Mr Cs 
declared income and expenses, and I note the income was verified, I think that the credit 
check carried out should have raised concerns. The One Stop Money Shop noted that Mr C 
had a county court judgment registered against him in June 2018 and while I understand the 
comments it has made about this, and I accept that consumers requesting these loans often have adverse information recorded on their credit files, I think this should have raised 
concerns that Mr C maybe struggling to manage his money. While this doesnt necessarily 
mean that the loan shouldnt have been provided, I think that further checks should have 
taken place to fully understand Mr Cs financial situation to ensure the lending was 
sustainable.
Had further checks taken place The One Stop Money Shop would have seen that he had 
loans outstanding with three other short term lenders and was paying a higher amount 
towards these each month than he had declared. He also had other transactions on his 
account that should have raised concerns about his ability to manage his money and 
sustainably repay the borrowing.
Given this I think further checks would have shown that Mr C was struggling to manage his 
money and that lending to him at this time wasnt sustainable. Therefore, I uphold this 
complaint in regard to loan 2. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress The One Stop Money Shop should fairly pay in this case Ive 
thought about what might have happened if The One Stop Money Shop hadnt provided 
loan 2 to Mr C, as Im satisfied it ought not have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce The One Stop Money Shops liability in this case 
for what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
The One Stop Money Shop Limited should refund Mr C all interest and charges he paid on 
loan 2 along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. I note The One Stop Money Shop has said no adverse information has been 
recorded on Mr Cs credit file, however if this isnt correct any adverse information regarding 
loan 2 should be removed.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint regarding loan 2. The One Stop Money Shop 
Limited should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman