DRN-3770474
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the fact that Dynamo Cover Limited (Dynamo) renewed her 
motor breakdown insurance policy over four years and said this was done without her 
knowledge. 
All references to Dynamo include its agents. 
What happened
Mrs B took out a motor breakdown policy in 2018 through Dynamo  an insurance broker. 
She said she thought the policy was only for a year but in April 2022 she discovered that her 
policy had automatically (auto) renewed each year since 2018 and that the payments had 
been taken from the card she had provided Dynamo with in 2018. 
She complained to Dynamo and said she wasnt warned the policy would auto renew and 
never received documentation in advance of renewal that gave her the option to cancel. She 
said she was told that she was being sent emails and that those may have gone into her 
junk folder. 
Mrs B complained to us and said if she had received her renewal notice she would have 
cancelled straight away. She said she wanted Dynamo to refund the premiums and any 
additional fees shed paid for the past four years as she did not want a policy after the first 
year. 
Dynamo responded to Mrs B while the complaint was with us and said it was not upholding 
her complaint. It said Mrs B had taken the policy out through a price comparison website 
which meant it was not an advised sale and therefore not a policy it had recommended to 
her. It added that when Mrs B took the policy out via the price comparison website she had 
to agree to its terms, which included the fact that the policy would auto renew, before 
proceeding to pay. It also said that policy documents and its terms of business which it 
provided to Mrs B said that the policy would auto renew and that it would write to Mrs B in 
advance of each renewal to let her know and to give her the option to cancel. Dynamo said it 
wrote to Mrs B 21 days before each renewal and as she did not get in touch to cancel, her 
policy auto renewed.
 
Mrs B said she wasnt happy with Dynamos response. She said she didnt believe that the 
price comparison website would have mentioned the auto renewal. She added that Dynamo 
had sent mock ups of the renewal emails it said it sent her each year and that it also wasnt 
able to find her original agreement. She said she had a copy of the original agreement which 
did not mention auto renewal. She said she didnt think she was the only customer of 
Dynamos to have been unhappy with its actions. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
based on the evidence she had seen, which included the renewal emails and a screenshot 
form the price comparison site, she thought Dynamo had provided clear information to Mrs B 
regarding the auto renewal and that it had emailed her before her renewal was up  as per 
its terms. 
Mrs B didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She reiterated that the original 
agreement with Dynamo did not mention auto renewals and also questioned how accurate 
some of the evidence Dynamo provided was. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
to Mrs B but, based on the evidence I have seen, I dont think Dynamo acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this case. I explain why below.
As I said above, Dynamo is a broker and therefore the intermediary between Mrs B and the 
insurer. It is responsible for the sale and renewal but not the provision of the insurance cover 
Mrs B had taken out. Dynamo said that the cover was provided by different insurers over the 
four years. It was responsible for collecting the premiums on behalf of those insurers and for 
arranging each years cover.
Dynamo said this was a non-advised sale and therefore that it hadnt recommended the 
policy to Mrs B and so it didnt have to ensure that it was suitable for her. This is confirmed in 
its key facts document. 
But even with non-advised sales we expect those who sell insurance (for example brokers) 
to provide consumers with information which is clear, fair and non-misleading so that 
consumers can make an informed decision about whether to buy the policy. And we expect 
brokers to highlight terms which are significant or unusual. In the circumstances, I would 
have expected a statement/term about auto renewal to have been brought to Mrs Bs 
attention before she decided to take the policy out. 
 
Mrs B said that her 2018 policy documents did not say that her policy would auto renew. She 
provided copies of her policy, key facts document, policy schedule and statement of 
demands and needs. I have looked at these documents and none of them mentions that the 
policy would auto renew. Dynamo said due to the passage of time it wasnt able to provide 
the policy documents from 2018 but it provided those for subsequent years. They state that 
the policy would auto renew.
Nevertheless, Dynamo says that its terms of business, which are in a separate document, 
state that the policy would auto renew. It has provided us with a copy which confirms this 
nevertheless it isnt clear which year this document applies to. Our Investigator asked Mrs B 
to provide her own copy; and it appears one would have been available via the online portal 
Mrs B logged onto to get the other four documents; but she said she was no longer able to 
provide this. So the only copy available is the one provided by Dynamo. In the absence of 
any evidence to contradict it, I think, on balance, the terms of business document provided to 
Mrs B when she took the policy out did state that the policy would auto renew. 
But as I said above, I would have expected the statement about the auto renewal to have 
been brought to Mrs Bs attention before she decided to take the policy out. And I am not 
sure that including it in the policy documents or the terms of business would have sufficed 
unless it was highlighted within those documents and unless those documents were 
available to Mrs B before she purchased her policy. Dynamo said they were.
Mrs B took her policy out via a price comparison website which directed her onto Dynamos 
site. Dynamo said that she would have had to tick a box to confirm that she had read the policy, its terms of business and other documents before proceeding. And that that same 
agreement said that the policy would auto renew. It provided a screenshot of that agreement 
which confirms this. 
Dynamo also said that before Mrs B was directed onto its site she would have had to click on 
a proceed to site box which said that the policy would auto renew after 12 months. Dynamo 
provided us with a screenshot of what this would have looked like. The box says This policy 
will automatically renew at the end of the 12 months. You will receive a renewal notice from 
the insurer, and if you wish to opt out of auto renewal, you will need to confirm this with the 
insurer. 
Mrs B said the screenshots are a mock up provided by Dynamo after the event and not 
necessarily what she saw when she took the policy out. Dynamo said they are an archived 
product of what the website looked like and therefore an accurate record of what Mrs B 
would have been able to see at the time. As far as I am aware there are tools that can be 
used to obtain archived webpages so I think, on balance, and in the absence of any 
evidence to the contrary that these screenshots are a reflection of what Mrs B saw in 2018.
So I think Mrs B would have been warned about the auto renewal before she proceeded to 
take the policy out. And I think thats fair and reasonable.
Furthermore, Dynamo has provided us with copies of some of the emails it had sent to Mrs B 
to warn her that her policy would auto renew in 21 days and giving her the option to cancel. 
Mrs B has questioned whether those emails were sent to her at all but from what I have seen 
they were all sent to the correct email address so, on balance, I think Dynamo did enough to 
ensure they were received. 
Dynamo also said that Mrs B would have been aware of the payments that had gone out. 
But as the amounts were relatively low I would not necessarily think that would be the case 
so I am not persuaded by this argument. 
Overall, I think Dynamo did enough to make Mrs B aware of the fact that her policy would 
auto renew. And I think it did enough to warn her before auto renewing each year and that it 
gave her the opportunity to cancel. As such I dont think it needs to pay Mrs B any 
compensation in relation to this. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman