DRN-1820212
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) took too long to clear a 
cheque she paid in via an intermediary business. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on setting out the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Halifax has sent us its process guide for cheques paid in via the intermediary 
business. The guidance explains that the cheque will normally reach the customers 
account the day after its paid in to the intermediary. From that point, it can take up to 
six working days for the cheque to clear. 
Mrs Bs cheque was deposited with the intermediary on 6 June 2019. Halifax says it 
received the cheque from its intermediary on 7 June 2019 and it cleared on 17 June 
2019. Thats a total of seven working days which is in line with Halifaxs process 
guide on clearing cheques. I havent found that Halifax delayed clearing Mrs Bs 
cheque. 
In response to the investigator, Mrs B said that the clearance times for cheques was 
sped up in 2017 and they should clear within two working days. But the guidance Mrs 
B forwarded relates to clearance timescale for cheques paid in via an online banking 
application using a digital image. They dont apply here as Mrs Bs cheque was paid 
in over the counter via an intermediary business. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B but I havent found evidence of a delay in this case. Im 
satisfied Halifax processed Mrs Bs cheque correctly and has dealt with this 
complaint fairly, so Im not telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman