DRN-2678437
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) quoted a renewal price for 
his buildings and contents insurance which was significantly more expensive than the new 
policy he took out with it.
 
What happened
Mr H had home insurance cover with RSA for many years. Over a period of eight years, the 
premium increased from £1300 to £2100. When he received his 2019 renewal quote, Mr H 
contacted RSA to ask for a better price. He went on to cancel his original policy and take out 
a new one with RSA for £600.
Mr H complained to RSA because he thought it shouldve offered him a lower price in 
previous years. RSA explained that it didnt act in an advisory capacity, so any quotes it 
gave were based on the policy Mr H had at the time of renewal. Mr H remained unhappy but 
RSA was satisfied that it hadnt done anything wrong.
Our investigator agreed with RSA to begin with and he didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
However, Mr H supplied evidence of discounts applied to his premiums for 2017 and 2018. 
Although RSA said it didnt have any record of contact from Mr H, our investigator thought 
the evidence supported Mr Hs version of events. He thought it was more likely than not that 
Mr H contacted RSA each year to ask for a better price, and thats why he got the discounts 
in those two years. 
Our investigator thought RSA hadnt treated Mr H fairly. He said RSA should refund to Mr H 
the difference between the premium he paid in 2017 and 2018 and what he wouldve paid for 
the alternative policy in those two years. In addition, our investigator thought RSA should 
pay Mr H 8% simple interest per annum from the date the premiums were paid to the date of 
settlement. 
RSA didnt agree. It repeated that it isnt a broker so it wouldnt have advised Mr H about any 
products. It also thought it was Mr Hs responsibility to ask about specific products to meet 
his needs.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint for the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
Mr H confirmed that his main cause for complaint was the premium increase at his 2019 
policy renewal. He doesnt think its fair that RSA offered him a renewal price on his existing 
policy which ended up being four times as much as the premium for the policy which he went 
on to buy (also with RSA). Because of this he thinks RSA shouldve made cheaper policy 
offers available to him in earlier years too.
I know our investigator explained the different reasons why an insurer might change the 
premium, and why it doesnt necessarily offer specific alternative policies, so I wont go into 
detail about that again here. 
Ive looked at the premiums Mr H paid for the eight years leading up to his complaint. For the 
first four years, the premium fluctuated up and down within a relatively narrow band of under 
£200. Over the next four years, the premium remained consistent to within a few pounds. In 
the final year, Mr Hs policy premium increased by almost £500. This is the point at which he 
contacted RSA to seek a better price or cancel. 
RSA provided a lot of information about its pricing to explain the change in premium. The 
information is commercially sensitive so I cant share it, but I havent seen anything to cause 
me concern about the price increases. Its worth noting, though, that Mr Hs cover increased 
each year because the policy was index-linked, and he made five claims in five years. Im 
satisfied RSA didnt increase the prices unfairly.
RSA originally said it didnt have a record of Mr H contacting it during the policy renewals. 
But, because he got a discounted premium for both 2017 and 2018, our investigator thought 
it was likely that Mr H did call RSA to seek a better price. More recently RSA found evidence 
of Mr H calling during the 2018 renewal and it gave him a discount. So, its likely that the 
same happened in 2017. As the evidence indicates that Mr H talked to RSA about his 
premiums at least in those two years, I think its fair to say that RSA had an opportunity to 
help him with the price.
Its clear that RSA had newer policies which wouldve provided Mr H with cover at a reduced 
cost. I accept that RSA doesnt advise about policies, but I do think it had a responsibility to 
draw Mr Hs attention to its other policies when he called specifically to ask for a discount. 
The fact that Mr H called to seek a better price is a clear indication that he was looking to 
save on his premium. When he called to cancel in 2019, RSA made him aware of the new 
policy, which he later took out, so I think it couldve made him aware of alternative policies 
when he called to ask for a discount in each of 2017 and 2018. For this reason, Im satisfied 
that RSA couldve done more for Mr H during the two policy renewals.
Overall, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that RSA unfairly increased the premium 
each year because of Mr Hs decision to renew his policy. However, the evidence does 
suggest that RSA couldve done more to help Mr H when he asked about better prices 
during the renewals for 2017 and 2018, in the same way that it did when he took out his new 
policy in 2019. Therefore, Ive decided to uphold his complaint. 
Putting things right
Mr Hs loss is the price difference for the two policies, although I must point out that the 
cover provided isnt identical. Mr H thinks his new policy is better because the cover limit is 
higher. However, his new policy doesnt cover any specified items or personal possessions, 
and it doesnt take into consideration one of his claims which is still less than five years old. 
Nevertheless, to put matters right, I think RSA should refund to Mr H the difference in 
premiums for his 2017 and 2018 policy, and what it wouldve cost him for those two years for 
the alternative policy. I think this is the position he wouldve been in had RSA made him 
aware of its other policies when he contacted it about a reduction in premium.
In addition, RSA should pay Mr H 8% simple interest per annum from the date Mr H paid the 
premiums to the date of settlement.  My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc 
should:
refund to Mr H the difference between the premium he paid in 2017 and 2018 and 
what he wouldve paid for the alternative policy in those two years, and
pay Mr H 8% simple interest per annum from the date he paid the premiums to the 
date of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman