DRN-4315084
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled another drivers 
claim against her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Bs son was involved in an accident whilst driving Mrs Bs car when he wasnt insured to 
do so. Admiral said that as he was liable, then it had to deal with the other drivers claim 
under the Road Traffic Act (RTA) and then recover its outlay from Mrs B. Admiral said it 
would keep Mrs B updated about the claim. 
But Mrs B didnt hear anything further from Admiral for over a year. Then she received a 
letter saying that she had been uncooperative and asking her to pay over £13,000 in costs. 
Mrs B challenged this as she thought the costs were inflated, and Admiral reduced some 
costs, and the bill was now about £11,000. Admiral agreed its service levels had been poor. 
And it paid Mrs B £300 compensation. But Mrs B remained unhappy.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admirals 
payment of compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its level of service was fair 
and reasonable. She thought the amounts Admiral was seeking from Mrs B for the total loss 
of the other drivers car and personal injuries was fair and reasonable. But she couldnt see 
that it had justified the charges for recovery, storage and hire. So she thought it should 
remove these charges from the amount it was trying to recover from Mrs B. 
Admiral didnt agree with the Investigators view, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that unfortunately Mrs Bs son wasnt covered to drive her car when they thought 
temporary cover was in place. And Admiral declined to indemnify him. I can see that liability 
for the accident isnt disputed and Mrs B agreed to reimburse Admiral for its outlay. But I can 
understand her shock and frustration when she received a bill for such a large sum without 
any notice from Admiral for over a year. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. Mrs B's policys terms and 
conditions state:
6. Right of recovery: If an incident occurs which is not covered by this policy and we are 
required by the law of any country to make a payment, we can recover that amount from you 
or any other insured person.
Mrs Bs son wasnt covered by her policy, but her car was. And, as he was at fault, Admiral 
said it was required to deal with the other drivers claim in keeping with its terms and 
conditions. I think its reasonable for Admiral to deal with the other drivers claim to avoid 
court costs. And I think its fair and reasonable for Admiral to recover its outlay from Mrs B. 
But wed expect Admiral to provide evidence to justify its outlay. And Admiral has provided 
us with very limited evidence to show that its outlay was fair and reasonable. 
I can see from Admirals file that the other drivers car was deemed to be a total loss 
following the accident. This was based on engineering evidence that would usually contain a 
valuation of the cars market value. Mrs B said her car had very minor damage. But the cost 
of repairing minor damage on a low value car, such as the other drivers, can make repairs 
uneconomical. And so I think it was fair and reasonable for Admiral to pay £3,600 for the 
other cars total loss and £100 for an engineers report.  
The other driver made a low cost personal injury claim. This was supported by medical 
evidence. The onus is on Admiral to disprove such claims and it didnt have any evidence to 
do this. And so I think it reasonably paid £495 for the claim and £216 for the medical report.
Admiral paid for 34 days storage costs and 37 days hire costs for the other driver. But wed 
expect that when a car is declared to be a total loss and payment is made, then hire ceases 
or isnt provided at all if the car isnt unroadworthy. Admiral has already reduced the hire and 
storage costs as it said it had caused delays in making the payment. But I havent seen 
evidence that the other drivers car was unroadworthy and so had to be recovered and 
stored, or that a hire car was required. And I havent seen evidence that Admiral reasonably 
progressed the claim as its obliged to do. 
So Im not satisfied that Admiral has justified these costs. And I think its unfair for it to 
recover costs for recovery, storage and hire from Mrs B. And so I think Admiral should 
reduce the amount it is seeking to recover from Mrs B by £6,494.92 to £4,411.00. Mrs B said 
she was trying to raise money to pay Admiral, but I cant see whether a payment was made. 
If she has, then I think Admiral should refund the overpayment for recovery, storage and 
hire, adding interest as Mrs B would have been without her money for some time.
Mrs B made it clear to Admiral after she had submitted her form giving it consent to deal with 
the other drivers claim that she wanted to be kept updated. But Admiral didnt contact Mrs B 
again for over a year. It then upheld her complaint and agreed that its communication had 
been poor, that some of the claim costs had been inflated due to its errors, and that it gave 
her no warning about the likely claim costs. Admiral offered Mrs B £300 compensation for 
the trouble and upset this caused. And I think thats fair and reasonable redress for the 
impact of its errors over a period of months. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do the following:
1. Reduce the amount it is seeking to recover from Mrs B by £6,494.92 for the recovery, 
storage and hire fees. 
2. If Mrs B has paid more than the remaining £4,411, then Admiral should refund Mrs B the 
difference between £4,411 and what she has paid. If Mrs B is due a refund, Admiral 
should also add interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date 
of the overpayment to the date of the refund.
3. Pay Mrs B £300 compensation for her distress and inconvenience if it hasnt already 
done so.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman