DRN-4050615
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) didnt pay a claim for reimbursement of 
adverse costs she made on an after the event (ATE) legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
In March 2016 Miss J took out an ATE legal expenses policy with Lloyds through solicitors in 
relation to a personal injury claim. Matters progressed and a court hearing took place in July 
2017. Following that, her solicitors advised Lloyds there had been inconsistencies in the 
evidence Miss J gave and the claim had been discontinued as an alternative to a formal 
finding of fundamental dishonesty being made against her. They said the defendant would 
be seeking their costs and asked if the policy would cover this. 
Having reviewed an attendance note from Miss Js counsel, Lloyds said it was concerned 
with the reasons that led to discontinuance. And it would be declining the claim on the basis 
of clause 8 of the policy (which related to fraudulent claims) and clause 9 (which covered a 
failure without good reason to meet responsibilities). So Miss J would be responsible for any 
costs or disbursements incurred.  
In February 2018 a District Judge found Miss J had been fundamentally dishonest and the 
defendant was entitled to enforce the costs order made in his favour. The following January 
Miss J paid the defendants costs (including their appeal costs). As a result a consent order 
was issued setting aside the previous order. 
Solicitors acting for Miss J contacted Lloyds in April 2021 and said they were now instructed 
in professional negligence proceedings against Miss Js former solicitors. They sought 
reimbursement of the adverse costs shed paid as the finding of fundamental dishonesty had 
now been set aside. Lloyds said the finding of fundamental dishonesty had been set aside 
because Miss J had agreed to pay adverse costs. As a result no finding had been reached 
on this issue. So it maintained its previous reasons for declining the claim. It also said Miss J 
hadnt sought any agreement from it before agreeing to pay costs which was a breach of the 
policy terms. 
Our investigator thought Lloyds had acted fairly. Miss J didnt agree. In summary she said:
The finding of fundamental dishonesty resulted from negligence by her solicitors. She 
didnt accept she had been dishonest and believed an appeal against the order finding 
that would have been successful. And as it had been set aside it no longer existed so 
Lloyds couldnt rely on this.
Shed already been told her ATE policy wouldnt assist with the claim so she didnt 
believe it was necessary to obtain Lloydss agreement to pay the other sides costs; it 
wouldnt have been possible for her to get permission to incur fees on a claim that had 
already been rejected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Lloyds has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I appreciate this matter has caused Miss J a great deal of distress and I was very sorry to 
learn of the impact of that on her. However, the issue I need to consider is whether Lloyds 
has done anything wrong. And while I appreciate matters relating to this claim have been 
ongoing since Miss J took out this policy in March 2016, the complaint shes made to us is 
about Lloyds decision not to reimburse the costs she paid. So thats the issue Ive focussed 
on in this decision. 
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of her policy. Section 8 Fraudulent Claims says 
if you make a claim which is fraudulent or false this policy shall become void and all benefit 
under it will be forfeited. And Section 9 Cancellation says The insurer will cancel this 
policy immediately without any refund of the insurance premium, and will reclaim any 
payments made under this policy ifyou fail without good reason to meet any of your 
responsibilities under this policy.
Lloyds decided in 2017 Miss J was in breach of those terms (and withdrew cover as a 
result). Miss J argues it should revisit its decision because she believes it was negligence by 
her solicitors that led to the discontinuance of her claim and the finding of fundamental 
dishonesty. And she said she wasnt dishonest in the evidence she gave. 
I appreciate the fundamental dishonesty finding was set aside by consent in January 2019. 
And I understand the points Miss J has made about why she agreed to that and didnt 
pursue an appeal. But that does mean no finding was ultimately reached on whether Miss J 
had been fundamentally dishonest or not. So there was no successful appeal for Lloyds to 
take into account when reviewing its previous decision to decline cover. 
And Lloyds turned down the claim in 2017 which was before the order relating to 
fundamental dishonesty had been reached. So that cant in itself have played a part in its 
decision to do so. The evidence it did have was a detailed hearing note from counsel which 
identified a significant number of inconsistencies in the evidence Miss J provided both prior 
to the hearing and during cross examination which, in a number of instances, she wasnt 
able to explain. 
I appreciate Miss J may well disagree with that advice and I understand she believes what 
happened at the hearing resulted from the negligence of her solicitors. But Im not aware 
shes been successful in that claim to date and obtained a judgement supportive of her view. 
Nor does she appear to have provided Lloyds with any other legal opinion in support of her 
position. So I dont think it was unreasonable of Lloyds to maintain its previous position on 
the claim given there wasnt clear evidence to show that was based on incorrect information. 
Even if Miss J was able to show that I dont think that would mean Lloyds should reimburse 
costs shes already paid. The policy terms say you must not negotiate, settle the claim or 
agree to pay any costs incurred without our written agreement. 
I do understand that at the point Miss J incurred those costs her claim had been rejected. 
And I think its likely that if she had approached Lloyds for authorisation it would simply have 
told her this wasnt a matter it could become involved with. But I think the key point here is 
thats because no cover was in place for her claim. I havent seen clear evidence to show the 
decision Lloyds reached to decline cover in 2017 was wrong based on the information it had at that time (Miss J hasnt challenged that in her complaint to us). And solicitors acting for 
Miss J didnt get in touch with Lloyds until 2021 which was itself over two years after the 
costs had been paid by Miss J. 
Given that, even if Miss J is now able to provide new evidence which shows cover for this 
claim should be reinstated (and Im not sure there are any ongoing issues), I dont think it 
would be fair to expect Lloyds to retrospectively cover costs incurred which it had no 
oversight or control of and which relate to a period when cover wasnt being provided. 
Miss J has also raised some more general questions about coverage provided by ATE 
policies. I think most of these are best directed to Lloyds as its best placed to answer them 
(and I think some of these points have been addressed in correspondence with her current 
solicitors). Miss J might in addition find it helpful to look at the legal expenses insurance 
section of our website if she wants further information on what our approach to these matters 
might be (for example when an insurer can rely on the assessment of prospects of success 
produced by a solicitor).
 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman