DRN-3852155
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
irresponsibly gave him a credit card account that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 18 March 2019, Mr L applied for and was given a credit card account with 
Barclaycard. Mr L was given an initial credit limit of £3,100. This credit limit was never 
increased. 
In 2022, Mr L complained to Barclaycard to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that Barclaycard ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before providing him with credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr L didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Barclaycard will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ls complaint is that Barclaycard made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Barclaycard has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Its possible that Barclaycard failed to 
make adequate checks before providing Mr L with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think 
better enquiries would have caused Barclaycard to think the credit was unaffordable. 
I say this because Mr L told Barclaycard that he earned a good salary. Mr Ls bank 
statements show that Mr Ls account enjoyed an income that was both regular and not 
modest. And the statements suggest that whatever other monthly commitments Mr L may 
have had for other credit, the total income each month was roughly the same as his 
monthly expenditure. 
And I have noted that Mr Ls credit file was very clean at the time of the loan application. 
When I say this, I mean that Mr Ls management of his existing credit showed no recent 
history of CCJs, defaults or any late payments. So, it seemed from the credit file that at the 
point that the lending decision was made, Mr L was affording his existing credit. And so, 
Barclaycard were not put on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from that. And so, 
I dont think that the information that Barclaycard had at the time of the lending decision, 
would have led them to feel they ought to make more searching enquiries of Mr Ls 
expenditure. And, in any event, I have seen insufficient evidence that better information 
would have put Barclaycard off of providing reasonably modest credit on a credit card. 
The Barclaycard checks showed that Mr L had over £14,000 in unsecured borrowings. I 
have noted that the credit card offered a promotional rate of 0% for balance transfers until 
18 August 2021. And it seems that Mr L made a significant balance transfer shortly after 
the credit card opened. So, rather than this adding to Mr Ls burden of credit, it looks like 
Mr L was taking steps, that could be termed sensible, to manage his existing debt by 
taking out this card. I say that because Mr L would have been saving money on interest he 
would have been paying elsewhere. So, it doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for 
Barclaycard to have facilitated that.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr L to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led Barclaycard to think that the credit it 
provided Mr L was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that what Barclaycard could 
see of his management of other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently 
than it did. 
I know that Mr L will be disappointed with my decision as he has put time and energy into 
his complaint. But I want Mr L to know that I have considered all the submissions made in 
this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman