DRN-2656565
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that she was unsuitably advised by an appointed representative
of Sesame Limited to switch her personal pension to a SIPP (Self Invested Personal 
Pension) to facilitate an investment in a store pod.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, and therefore I have only 
summarised them below.
Mrs M was advised to switch her personal pension to a SIPP by an adviser from Sesame 
Limited in June 2011. At the time of advice Mrs M was in her mid-forties and earning 
£23,000 a year. She had about £9,000 in savings, had the personal pension that is the 
subject of this complaint and a separate Group Stakeholder pension through her employer. 
Sesame assessed Mrs Ms attitude to risk as five on a scale of one to six. The suitability 
report noted that her existing investments would typically indicate an attitude to risk of three, 
but stated that she wished to take more risk in the hope of higher returns.
The report also said that the funds would be held in cash following transfer, pending  
Mrs Ms investment decision. It stated that Sesame wouldnt be paid a fee for arranging the
SIPP, nor would it offer advice about, or get involved in, the purchase of the commercial
property.
Sesames adviser recommended that Mrs M switch her personal pension to the SIPP. The 
advisers details were noted on the application form in the Financial Adviser details section. 
Mrs M also signed an Alternative Investments statement which included confirmation that 
she was aware the investment was high risk and/or speculative. £18,854 was transferred 
from Mrs Ms personal pension to the SIPP in January 2012. On 30 January 2012 £16,500 
was paid for the store pod, along with solicitor fees of £586.
Our investigator thought that Mrs Ms complaint should succeed. He said that the evidence 
suggested that it was likely that an unauthorised firm initially promoted the investment to  
Mrs M. But then Sesames adviser provided advice on the switch. Although Sesames 
adviser may have stated that he wasnt advising her on the underlying investment itself, the 
investigator didnt think he could avoid the responsibility of considering the suitability of the 
proposed investment within the SIPP. 
The investigator noted that COBS 9 (the Financial Services Authoritys - as it was at the time 
 Conduct of Business rules), required that a firm making a personal recommendation in 
relation to a designated investment take reasonable steps to ensure that its recommendation 
was suitable. He said the rules required a firm to obtain the necessary information to have a 
reasonable basis for believing that its client was able to bear and understood the risks of the 
transaction. He said the suitability of the SIPP couldnt be separated from the suitability of 
the investment it was recommended to facilitate.
The investigator said he understood that Mrs M had little investment experience and limited 
capacity for loss. He thought recommending she invest most of her pension provision in a 
store pod wasnt suitable, as it exposed most of her pension to significant risk of loss. He 
said the regulator had made it clear that investments of this type should only make up a 
small proportion of a portfolio. The regulator had also issued warnings in 2013 and 2014 
highlighting that its rules required firms to consider the suitability of the proposed 
investments when advising on a switch. 
Mrs Ms original personal pension offered a commercial property fund. Therefore she didnt 
need to switch to a SIPP in order to invest in commercial property. The investigator said that 
he thought that if Mrs M been suitably advised that switching wasnt suitable or in her best 
interests, she would likely have remained in her existing pension/funds. 
Sesame didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said although the investigator had 
said the pension transferred represented most of Mrs Ms pension provision it was actually 
only a relatively small part of it. It said she had ten years worth of preserved service in a 
defined benefits scheme. And she was making monthly contributions into a pension. The 
point of sale documentation recorded that Mrs M was willing to take a higher level of risk with 
this part of her pension on the basis she had other provision which offset the risk. So she 
actually had some capacity for loss. 
It said Mrs M had 17 years to retirement. Taking into consideration her ongoing contributions 
and the guarantees afforded by the defined benefit scheme, she could take more risk with 
this part of her pension provision to try and enhance her overall benefits. It therefore didnt 
agree that the advice had been unsuitable. 
The investigator responded to say that it was recorded that Mrs M had 6.5 years deferred 
benefits in her employers final salary scheme. Mrs Ms preserved pension in the scheme 
(the employer had changed the scheme to a defined contribution scheme) was stated as 
£2,344 at her date of leaving it in 2010. Her income needs in retirement and state pension 
entitlement werent recorded. But the fact find said Mrs M didnt have sufficient pension 
savings to fund her retirement income. It went onto say this was why she was comfortable 
with speculating in a much higher level of investment risk to try to achieve this via her 
personal pension.
The investigator said Mrs M was investing over £400 a month in the employers Group  
Stakeholder scheme, but this wasnt guaranteed to be maintained. Mrs M was in her mid-
forties, and therefore approaching an age where it would be unusual to markedly increase 
the degree of risk she was taking.
The investigator didnt think that Mrs M had the capacity to invest most of her personal 
pension provision in an unregulated store pod investment carrying significant liquidity risk.
He thought this type of investment was generally appropriate for high net worth or 
sophisticated investors. He thought it was unlikely that the unregulated firm would have 
given a balanced or comprehensive assessment of the investment it was selling.
And he didnt think Mrs M had any experience in evaluating and selecting investments. 
Overall, the investigator didnt think that the advice to switch the personal pension to the 
SIPP was suitable given Mrs Ms circumstances at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator that the advice to 
switch was unsuitable, and largely for the same reasons. I accept that there was an unauthorised firm involved in this transaction. However its not in 
dispute that Sesame Limiteds adviser provided regulated advice on the switch. 
As the investigator said, the regulator has made it clear its view is that an adviser needs to 
consider the underlying investment when advising on a switch. Although the warnings he 
referred to were issued after the advice given on this case, they were clarification of its 
existing rules. 
I think this is consistent with the nature of this type of transaction. The starting position was 
that Mrs M had a personal pension. In order to switch to the SIPP recommended Mrs M had 
to sell the rights/investments in her personal pension to fund the switch to the SIPP and buy 
new rights/investments in it. In doing so, the adviser needed to consider the suitability of the 
underlying investment to ensure the suitability of the transaction overall. The setting up of 
the SIPP didnt stand alone, it was a single stream of advice and all part and parcel of the 
same transaction. 
As explained by the investigator, the adviser was required to meet the requirements set out 
in COBS 9. In brief, this required it to ensure it took reasonable steps to ensure that the 
personal recommendation it made to Mrs M to switch was suitable. This included having a 
reasonable basis for believing that Mrs M was able to financially bear the investment related 
risks consistent with her objectives.
The fact find that was completed at the time the advice was given recorded that Mrs M had 
about £7,000 in her current account and on deposit, and £2,000 in a cash ISA. Mrs M had a 
deferred final salary pension, however this only provided a pension of £2,344 at her date of 
leaving it in 2010. She and her employer were contributing around £400 a month into a 
Group Stakeholder pension. 
I recognise the deferred benefits would revalue up to Mrs Ms retirement date. And that if she 
continued to pay £400 a month or more into her Group Stakeholder pension this could build 
up a significant sum over time. However those contributions had only started in 2010 and so 
werent of significant value at the time of the advice. And there was no guarantee as to how 
long contributions would continue. 
The store pod investment was unregulated and presented significant risks. Whilst I accept 
that Mrs M did have some other pension provision and modest savings, I dont think this was 
sufficient to enable her to bear the risks of complete loss of the £18,000 plus in her pension 
through a speculative investment.  It made up a significant proportion of her pension and 
savings provision at that time, and could have provided important pension benefits at 
retirement.
Mrs Ms original pension was invested in a unit-linked with-profits fund. As I have said above, 
her other savings were on deposit and in a cash ISA. She hadnt got experience of this type 
of unregulated niche investment. Although she signed to say she understood it presented 
high risk, it was the advisers responsibility to weigh up all the risks in the context of Mrs Ms 
overall provision, and give advice that was suitable to her circumstances.
Taking all the circumstances of the sale into account, Im not persuaded that the advice was 
suitable. In my view the investment presented too great a risk given Mrs Ms financial 
position; I dont think she was in a position to bear the risks related to the investment which 
was speculative and exposed her to the risk of complete loss. I dont think Sesame Limited 
met its obligations under COBS 9 and it shouldnt have recommended that Mrs M give up 
her existing personal pension in order to open a SIPP and invest as she did. I think if it had 
given suitable advice to remain with her existing scheme Mrs M would more likely than not 
have followed that advice.Putting things right
Fair compensation 
In assessing what is fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs M as close as
possible to the position she would probably now have been in if she had been given suitable
advice.
I think Mrs M would have remained in her previous plan and funds. Im satisfied that
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs Ms circumstances and
objectives when she invested.
What should Sesame Limited do?
To compensate Mrs M fairly Sesame Limited should:
Compare the actual value of Mrs Ms SIPP with the notional value of her original 
pension plan as at the date of this decision. If the notional value is greater than the 
actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is 
greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Sesame Limited should pay into Mrs Ms pension plan, to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. Sesame Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Sesame Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs Ms pension plan it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Ms actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected retirement age. I think Mrs M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in 
retirement, so the reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs M 
would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
In addition, Sesame Limited should pay Mrs M £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience the impact the loss of her pension has caused.
Provide details of the calculation to Mrs M in a clear, simple format.
If, at the calculation date, the store pod investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily 
sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the 
value of the store pod investment should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. 
Sesame Limited should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial 
value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the gross 
compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Sesame Limited is unable to purchase the investment its value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. Sesame Limited may wish to require that Mrs M provides 
an undertaking to pay it any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Sesame Limited will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Any contributions paid to the SIPP should be assumed to have been paid to the original 
pension plan. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be 
deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return 
in the calculation from that point on.
Future SIPP fees 
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. 
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Sesame Limited taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mrs M can discuss with the SIPP provider. 
However I dont know how long that will take. Third parties are involved and we dont have 
the power to tell them what to do. If the store pod investment is not removed from the SIPP, 
and to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Sesame Limited pays Mrs M an 
upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous 
years fees). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP 
to be closed.
Interest
Interest at the rate of 8% simple a year should be added to the compensation from the date 
of this final decision to the date of settlement if settlement isnt made within 28 days of 
Sesame Limited being notified of Mrs Ms acceptance of this decision.
Costs
Mrs Ms representative has asked that I consider making an award for its costs. Like the 
investigator, I dont think an award for costs is appropriate in the circumstances of this case. 
I think Mrs M could have referred the complaint to our service and we would have 
investigated the matter. I dont think she necessarily needed the help of a representative to 
make her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I order Sesame Limited to calculate and 
pay compensation to Mrs M as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman