DRN-2486099
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that MBNA Limited didnt set up a payment holiday on his account as he 
requested.
What happened
Mr E spoke with MBNA on 27 March 2020 and advised them that he was struggling 
financially and that he was unable to work because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr E asked 
MBNA to implement a payment holiday on his account in line with upcoming government 
guidance.
Mr E contacted MBNA a few months later, and it was at this time that he realised that a 
payment holiday hadnt been set up on his account as hed requested. So, Mr E raised a 
complaint.
MBNA looked at Mr Es complaint, but they said that they had explained to Mr E that they 
were unable to set up a payment holiday at the time that he called them on 27 March 2020 
and that they had also explained to Mr E that he would need to call them back at a later date 
to request this. So, they didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr E wasnt satisfied with MBNAs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they accepted that MBNA had asked 
Mr E to call them back to arrange the payment holiday, so they didnt uphold the complaint 
either.
Mr E remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr E feels strongly about this complaint, and Im aware from my review of this 
complaint that Mr E suffered family tragedies in the period surrounding the events under 
consideration here. I offer my heartfelt condolences to Mr E in this regard, and I have taken 
onboard Mr Es comments that his personal situation was such at that time that he would 
have been in no position to have called MBNA back, had it been asked of him.
When reviewing this complaint, I first listened to the recording of the telephone call between 
Mr E and MBNA to understand what had been discussed at that time. I then took into 
consideration the temporary measures being implemented by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) at that time, including the directives regarding temporary payment 
holidays, as well as Mr Es personal circumstances at that time..
Having listened to the recording of the telephone call between Mr E and MBNA on 27 March 
2020, I can confirm that the MBNA representative did explain that he was unable to set up a 
payment holiday at that time and that Mr E would need to call back to arrange this. The 
reason for this that was given was because a requirement to provide temporary payment 
holidays had not yet come into effect.
I have reviewed the timeline surrounding the FCAs directives concerning temporary 
payment holidays and I can see that, while it had been confirmed by the FCA that temporary 
payment holidays would be introduced, the requirement for businesses to offer these only 
came into effect from 9 April 2020. 
One of the reasons that the FCA set the date that temporary payment holidays should be 
offered by businesses as 9 April 2020 was to allow businesses a period of time to make the 
necessary operational changes to allow them to comply with this directive. And this was 
done because not all businesses offered temporary payment holidays before this time and 
so would need some time to update their systems to allow for this new requirement. 
And the MBNA representative confirmed on the telephone call that MBNA as a business was 
unable to offer a temporary payment holiday at the time that Mr E had called them  in 
March 2020  and that Mr E would need to call MBNA back after the requirement to provide 
temporary payment holidays took effect because of this.
I can also confirm that the MBNA representative explained to Mr E that he was able to apply 
30-days breathing space to the account, during which time no interest or charges would be 
applied to the balance of the account. However, it was also explained that this measure was 
temporary, and that the status of the account would revert back to standard if Mr E didnt call 
before the end of the 30-day period to request that the temporary payment holiday be 
applied. 
Its understandable, given Mr Es personal and family circumstances in the subsequent 
weeks and months, that he may have misunderstood that he was required to call MBNA 
back if he wanted to request a temporary payment holiday on his account. And I accept that 
Mr Es circumstances were such that he would not have been in the personal position to 
make such a call, had he been aware that it was required. 
But its difficult for me to conclude that MBNA acted unfairly or unreasonably here, and I say 
this because they did explain that Mr E would need to call back, and when Mr wasnt able to 
call back, they reverted the account back to its standard basis, as they had explained that 
they would do.
I understand that this complaint is very stressful to Mr E and that he is upset that missed 
payments are now recorded on his credit file. I can sympathise with Mr E in this regard, but I 
dont feel that I can reasonably ask MBNA to make any adjustments to Mr Es credit file at 
this time. 
The reason I say this is that, as a provider of credit, MBNA have an obligation to make 
accurate reports to the credit reference agencies. I understand that Mr Es personal and 
family circumstances were such that he believed that he had arranged a payment holiday 
and didnt need to make payments at that time, but unfortunately, as explained above, that 
wasnt the case. And because the missed payment reports that MBNA have made to the 
credit reference agencies arent inaccurate, I cant fairly ask MBNA to amend them.
I realise that this wont be the outcome to this complaint Mr E was wanting, but while I do 
sympathise with Mr Es personal circumstances, because Im unable to reach the conclusion 
that MBNA have acted unreasonably or unfairly here - as I have explained above - it follows 
that I wont be able to uphold this complaint or ask MBNA to take any further action at this time. I hope that Mr E will be able to understand, based on everything I have explained here, 
why I have made the decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman