DRN-4023334
The complaint
Miss W and Mr C have complained that they were given unsuitable mortgage advice by a 
representative of Sesame Limited. To settle the complaint Miss W and Mr C want to be 
compensated for their financial losses.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. Furthermore, Sesame has accepted it made an error, so I dont 
need to analyse whats happened to decide if Sesame is at fault; all I need to decide is what 
the appropriate redress should be.
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Miss W and Mr C being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my 
summary of what happened quite brief.
In December 2021 Miss W and Mr C were buying a new-build property. The developer 
recommended Sesame as the mortgage broker, and Miss W and Mr C say they were told by 
the developer that the builder and broker would liaise in relation to the completion date of the 
property, which was estimated to be between 1 August-31 October 2022. They were given 
mortgage advice by Sesame, as a result of which they applied for a mortgage with a lender I 
will call N. The property Miss W and Mr C were buying was in the process of construction 
and so it was necessary for any mortgage offer to be extendable to ensure that it would still 
be valid several months ahead.
Miss W and Mr C were advised by Sesame to take out a 1.49% five-year fixed rate mortgage 
with a lender I will call N. Miss W and Mr C said they highlighted to Sesame their concerns 
about rising interest rates and the fact that the completion date was potentially the end of 
October 2022. They say they were reassured by Sesame that the mortgage from N would be 
valid for six months, that it could be extended by three months after that and extended again 
if necessary.
However, that information wasnt correct; N would only extend a mortgage offer for 45 days. 
Because N wouldnt extend the mortgage offer by more than that, Miss W and Mr C had to 
take out a mortgage with another lender, S, on a five-year fixed rate of 2.74%. The purchase 
and mortgage completed in September 2022. 
Sesame has accepted that it made a mistake in relation to the length of time by which N 
would extend the mortgage. It offered compensation of £200. However, Miss W and Mr C 
didnt think this was fair. They complained to our service, and said that, if theyd been given 
the correct advice at the outset, theyd have chosen a different product with a longer 
extension period from one of the other mortgages available in December 2021.
An investigator looked at what had happened. He thought the complaint should be upheld. 
He found there had been another lender  H  which had a 1.52% five-year fixed rate 
mortgage product that was valid for the length of the product completion date and that this 
would have been the most suitable option. The investigator wasnt persuaded by Sesames 
argument that Miss W and Mr C wouldnt have qualified for the mortgage from H, because 
the mortgage offer from N was for the about the same amount as the maximum loan they 
could have had from H.
Because Miss W and Mr C should have been advised to apply for the mortgage from H 
rather than N, they had suffered financial loss. This was because, by the time Sesames 
error had come to light and Miss W and Mr C needed to go to a new lender, interest rates 
had increased and so their new mortgage is costing them more than if theyd applied for the 
mortgage with H at the outset. 
The investigator thought Sesame should compensate Miss W and Mr C for the difference in 
payments they were actually making at 2.74% and 1.52% theyd have been on if theyd 
taken out the mortgage with H, until the H rate would have ended on 31 March 2027. He 
calculated this at £140.61 per month.
Miss W and Mr C accepted this but Sesame did not. It reiterated its previous points that it 
didnt think Miss W and Mr C would have qualified for the mortgage with H. Sesame also 
said that a mortgage extension would still have been required for the H mortgage. The 
investigator asked Sesame to clarify this  given that Hs criteria stated that its mortgage 
offers are valid until the product completion date, but Sesame didnt respond to this point. 
In addition, although Sesame accepted it gave Miss W and Mr C the wrong advice, it hasnt 
clarified what it thinks the correct advice would have been.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons.
Sesame has suggested that the mortgage with H wouldnt have been suitable because H 
wouldnt have lent Miss W and Mr C the amount they needed. But the mortgage with N was 
for £220,950 and the maximum H would have lent was for £220,630, so virtually the same 
amount. N was recommended because it offered the cheapest product from all the lenders 
on the panel, not because it was the only one that would lend the amount Miss W and Mr C 
needed.
Sesame has accepted that the N mortgage wasnt suitable, because it couldnt be extended 
for more than 45 days. This was information that was available to Sesame at the time of the 
advice in December 2021. In the circumstances, Sesame should not have recommended the 
mortgage with N. 
I am satisfied that Miss W and Mr C told Sesame they were concerned about the impact of 
interest rate increases given the length of time for the property to be ready for occupation, 
and were told  incorrectly  that the mortgage with N could be extended beyond the time 
when it actually could.
The consequence of this is that, by the time Miss W and Mr C found out that theyd been 
given the wrong advice, interest rates had increased. If theyd been given the correct advice 
in December 2021, theyd have taken out the next best rate with H, where there was no issue in extending the offer, as Hs conditions say that the offer is valid until the product 
completion date.
So, but for the wrong advice, Miss W and Mr C would have been on a better interest rate, 
the 1.52% available with H, until 31 March 2027. They lost out directly as a result of 
Sesames actions, and so Im satisfied that they are entitled to be compensated for this.
Putting things right
The mortgage with S completed in September 2022. If Miss W and Mr C had taken out the 
product with H, it would have run for 55 months from then until it would have expired on 
31 March 2027.
I require Sesame Limited to pay to Miss W and Mr C:
 
£200 for distress and inconvenience;
the difference on a mortgage balance of £221,949 (the amount of the mortgage with 
S) with capital and interest repayable over a term of 30 years between their 
repayments on the current interest rate they are paying of 2.74% and the repayments 
if the interest rate was 1.52%, over a period of 55 months.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Sesame Limited to settle the 
complaint as detailed above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman