DRN-3994618
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has dealt with her claim 
following a road traffic accident.
What happened
In December 2021 Mrs P made a claim on her motor insurance policy following a no-fault
traffic accident.
Mrs P received a letter from AXA confirming the claim and outlining how it would progress.
She uploaded photos of the damage to her car to AXAs claims portal and the car was then
collected and taken to a garage. When Mrs P checked AXAs portal for updates, she saw
that her car was deemed a total loss although the garage repair hub indicated that the car
was being repaired. Mrs P also received emails from AXAs salvage agent saying that the
car was a total loss. Mrs P contacted AXA to query what was going on. She received an
email on 16 December 2021 advising that the car was at the garage awaiting repair.
Mrs P then saw further conflicting information in AXAs portal and the repair hub. She was
also contacted again by the salvage agents who made a settlement offer. Mrs P emailed
AXA asking for clarification and where her car was. She said she would like to get an
independent assessment of the damage before considering the settlement as she thought
the car was repairable. Mrs P received no response from AXA. On 17 January 2022 and 31
January 2022 Mrs P emailed AXA saying that she was making a complaint regarding the
handling of her claim.
AXA contacted Mrs P on 2 February 2022 saying it had logged her complaint. It agreed to
make enquiries to confirm where the car was. It said the car was initially deemed repairable
but when fully inspected it was assessed as a total loss. It said its own in-house engineer
would contact Mrs P to offer a settlement.
Mrs P then brought her complaint to this service. She thought the car could be repaired and
wanted to get her own assessment of the damage. She also complained about the poor
customer service and that she was not advised where her car was. She had paid for a hire
car and wanted AXA to cover this.
In May 2022 Mrs P received a phone call from AXAs inhouse engineer. He confirmed the
car was a total loss and valued it at £14,500 with a salvage value of £5,800. The estimate for
repair was £9,430.40 including vat. He also confirmed where the car was located. AXA later
accepted to us that its communication with Mrs P could have been better and offered £250
compensation, although it couldnt see that that it had ever informed Mrs P that her car was
repairable. It said that if Mrs P had incurred additional costs, it would consider these if
provided with full details.
Mrs P didnt accept AXAs offer of compensation. She said she was clearly told by AXA that
the car was being repaired and received a guarantee for the repairs. She hadnt received
any explanation for this or agreement for her car to be independently assessed. She also
said that she had not received a reply from AXA about her complaint.
Our investigator thought that it was reasonable for AXA to rely on the engineers report to
conclude that the car was a total loss but thought it would be fair for Mrs P to be given the
opportunity of having the car independently assessed if she wished. He thought the £250
compensation offered by AXA for poor service was fair. Mrs P didnt agree and asked for an
ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
On 30 January 2023 I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
This complaint is about the service Mrs P received from AXA during her claim. AXA used
agents to act on its behalf and as they were instructed by AXA, its responsible for their
actions.
Ive looked at AXAs claim notes and the emails between Mrs P and AXA and its agents. Its
clear to me that the communication with Mrs P was poor and there was confusion about the
role of AXAs agents  the salvage company and the repair company. The initial letter Mrs P
received after her claim didnt mention that any agents might be in contact with her, and I
can see that this caused confusion for Mrs P.
AXA say that they dont believe that they told Mrs P that her car was repairable. I dont think
that there is any dispute that AXAs hub showed the car to be a total loss. However, Ive
seen a copy of an email dated 16 December 2021 from AXA clearly telling Mrs P that it
understood the car was repairable and it was waiting for repairs to begin. Ive also seen a
screenshot dated 14 January 2022 from the repair hub showing that Mrs Ps car had been
repaired and that she could download the repair guarantee. So, Im satisfied that Mrs P was
told by AXA that her car was being repaired.
Ive seen copies of emails from the salvage company asking Mrs P for her car registration
documents and personal details. They also offered settlement for her claim. I think it must
have been very confusing for Mrs P to be receiving information from the salvage agents
regarding her car being a total loss at the same time as being told it was being repaired.
Having looked through AXAs notes and copies of emails, Im satisfied that communication
with Mrs P was poor. Mrs P raised a number of queries with AXA about the contradictory
information but doesnt appear to have received a full or timely response. Mrs P had to
chase queries in December 2021 and again in January 2022. In an email of 17 January
2022, she complained asking where her car was, who collected it and for confirmation that
the repairs were complete. She also queried why she was still getting emails from the
salvage agent and why the AXA portal was showing the car as a write off. I cant see that
Mrs P received a reply to this.
Mrs P emailed AXA again on 31 January 2022 saying that she was going to refer her
complaint to this service. AXA responded saying that her complaint was logged and that it
was chasing up where her car was. It said the car was initially deemed repairable from the
photos but when fully inspected it was considered to be a total loss. It said its own in-house
engineer would be in contact to offer a settlement. Mrs P then appears to have heard
nothing further from AXA until its in-house engineer telephoned her in May 2022 and offered
a settlement.
Mrs P has clearly not had the level of service that she should. AXA accepted this and offered
£250 compensation. However, I dont think this goes far enough. AXAs lack of
communication has resulted in distress and inconvenience for Mrs P and delay in her claim
being progressed. The issue of what was happening to her car was clarified in earlyFebruary 2022  two months after the incident. Mrs P was left frustrated by the lack of
communication from AXA and I note the in-house engineer only made contact with Mrs P in
May 2022  over three months after AXA said they would contact Mrs P with an offer. Mrs P
has been without the use of her car during this time. She is self-employed and says she has
been able to use her daughters car for work most of the time but has had to hire a car on
two occasions. Bearing all the above in mind, I think an award of £500 compensation for
distress and inconvenience would be fair.
I also think it fair for AXA to cover the reasonable cost of the car hire due to the delays in the
claim being progressed. Mrs P should provide receipted invoices for the car hire to AXA.
AXA should also pay interest at 8% on this sum as Mrs P has been without the use of this
money since the day she made payment.
Mrs P has said shed like her own engineer to assess the damage to her car, and I think this
is reasonable. AXA have told Mrs P where her car is, so Mrs P can arrange this if she still
wishes to do so.
Responses to my provisional decision
AXA accepted my provisional decision. 
Mrs P provided copy receipts for hiring a car on four separate occasions totalling £1,710.05. 
Mrs P also said that she wants to be reimbursed for her continued car insurance. She says 
she renewed her car insurance in June 2022 as she didnt trust AXA to cover her claim if she 
didnt renew. She also says she would not have had to renew for so long if AXA had dealt 
with her claim more quickly. AXA responded that it would not have denied Mrs Ps claim on 
the basis that she didnt renew her car insurance. AXA also pointed out that the car 
remained at their salvage agents and Mrs P had made a Statutory Off Road Notification 
(SORN).
Mrs P asks that the £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience be increased due to 
the prolonged time taken to resolve matters and because AXA made no attempt to engage 
with her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered carefully what both parties say about the insurance, but I dont think it 
reasonable to expect AXA to cover this cost. Mrs P made a SORN  declaring her car was 
being kept off road  and in these circumstances she didnt have to insure it (unless she 
wanted cover for damage or theft) and I think it likely she would have been aware of this. 
AXA also made an offer to settle before the renewal  an offer that Mrs P says she is now 
willing to accept. Ive not seen anything to suggest that AXA would have refused Mrs Ps 
claim if she didnt renew her insurance and so I dont think it fair to ask AXA to reimburse this 
cost. 
Whilst I understand how strongly Mrs P feels about the level of compensation, I took into 
account AXAs poor service and the delays in my provisional decision. I havent seen 
anything new which makes me change my mind and Im satisfied that £500 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience is fair. 
As AXA accept the hire costs, I think it fair that it pays Mrs P £1,710.05 with interest at 8%.Finally, Mrs P says that she will now accept AXAs offer of £14,500 in settlement of her claim 
for the car. This offer was not part of Mrs Ps complaint to us, so Ive not considered it 
further. My provisional decision said I thought it fair that Mrs P be given the opportunity to 
have her car inspected  and this remains my view should Mrs P decide she still wishes to 
do so. I suggest Mrs P contacts AXA if she wishes to accept the settlement offer. 
For the reasons stated above, my final decision remains the same as my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
allow Mrs P to have her car examined by her own engineer should she still wish to do 
so;
pay Mrs P £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and
pay Mrs P £1,710.05 car hire costs plus interest at 8% from the date Mrs P made 
payment to the date the money is refunded to her.
If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs P a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman