DRN-2859164
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Lines (Direct Line) 
handling of a claim made under their buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In May 2020, Mr and Mrs H discovered water damage in their bathroom. Mr H contacted 
Direct Line who he says encouraged him to arrange for his own repairs. Mr and Mrs H say 
they were concerned about carrying out the work during a government instructed lockdown 
but decided to go ahead with the most urgent repairs. During one of his conversations with 
Direct Line, Mr H discovered that an earlier claim for water damage in the same bathroom in 
2017 was still outstanding. Mr H says Direct Line agreed to settle both claims together.
After Mr and Mrs H had carried out a significant part of the works, they received an offer 
from Direct Line which was significantly less than theyd been expecting for the current 
claim. Mr and Mrs H say they had difficulties in speaking to someone who could explain why 
this happened. When Mr H was able to speak to someone, Direct Line told him both claims 
were for the same damage, and he hadnt chosen to correct some of the cosmetic damage 
caused by the 2017 claim. Mr H says hes unsure which amounts hes been paid for which 
claim, and that hes not been paid the full amount of his costs. To put things right, Mr and 
Mrs H want all their costs to be paid, along with a payment for their time spent resolving this 
matter.  
Direct Line issued two final responses to Mr and Mrs Hs complaints. The first, in July 2020, 
said they wouldnt look to change the settlement already offered to include the lounge 
redecoration. This was because it had been considered under the 2017 claim and formed 
part of that settlement. 
In the second final response letter, issued in April 2020, Direct Line responded to Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint in more detail. The 2020 claim had been made during the government 
instructed lockdown. This meant it wasnt possible to send an assessor out, so Direct Line 
said it was appropriate to use photos to show the damage. It also said it didnt approve the 
works Mr and Mrs H carried out, and the policy terms say if a cash payment is made, its 
only to cover what it would have cost Direct Lines supplier. 
In addition to this, Direct Line also said that it was right for Mr and Mrs H to pay two 
excesses, one for each of the claims and both claims should be recorded on the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE). Direct Line said a customer can claim for two related 
incidents, but not the same damage twice. Direct Line also said Mr and Mrs H were still 
owed £287.57 from the 2017 claim, which it paid. Mr and Mrs H were offered a total of £125 
compensation in recognition of the lack of communication in response to their questions.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered what both sides had said but he didnt consider Direct Line had acted 
unreasonably in handling the claim. As Mr and Mrs H didnt agree, this matter has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have made extensive submissions which Ive summarised here. I hope they 
wont take this as a discourtesy and recognise my intention in summarising whats happened 
reflects our informal remit. My decision focuses on those issues I consider central to the 
dispute. 
In the first instance, Ill consider Direct Lines handling early handling of the claim. Given 
there was a government instructed lockdown, I think it was reasonable to take the decision 
not to send an assessor out. Like our investigator, I think there were two options available to 
Direct Line at this point, it could have requested photos and videos of the damage, or it could 
have delayed taking any action until the restrictions were lifted. In the circumstances, Direct 
Line asked for photos and videos of the damage and Im satisfied this was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs H consider theyve been disadvantaged because they say they were 
encouraged by Direct Line to have the repairs carried out. Mr H said as a result, the amount 
they paid to complete the works was higher than it might have been because they were 
unable to negotiate with tradesmen to carry out the work at a lower price. This was because 
there were fewer tradesmen working. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Hs claim Direct Line advised them to carry out all the repairs. 
Direct Line maintains it advised Mr and Mrs H to stop the leak but, as it had been told the 
damage was minor, did not authorise the full repairs to be carried out. Ive listened to the 
calls between Direct Line and Mr and Mrs H during May and June 2020. 
Having done so, I dont agree Direct Line advised Mr and Mrs H to go ahead with the 
repairs. Direct Line told Mr and Mrs H how much it was prepared to pay to settle the 2020 
claim, which was significantly less than the quote Mr and Mrs H had received from their own 
contractor. On two occasions during a call with Mrs H in May 2020, Direct Line offered to 
send their own contractor out to try and avoid Mr and Mrs H having to find over £2,000 
needed to bridge the gap between the two quotes. However, Mr and Mrs H didnt respond to 
the offer from Direct Line during the phone calls that took place in May. And by the time Mr 
and Mrs H next spoke to Direct Line, they had instructed their own contractor. Im satisfied 
this was a decision Mr and Mrs H took without any advice from Direct Line.  
Ill turn now to the comments Mr and Mrs H have made about the way the claim was settled. 
Mr and Mrs H said they should have been provided with a full breakdown of the costs Direct 
Line would have incurred when devising the scope of works, but I dont agree it was required 
to share this. These details are commercially sensitive and ultimately it was for Direct Line to 
decide if it was prepared to share these details. The fact it did not share these details is not 
unusual. 
As Ive said, Direct Line offered to provide contractors to Mr and Mrs H, but this offer wasnt 
taken up. On this basis, Ive considered whether Direct Line acted fairly in cash settling at 
the level it did. As Ive set out above, the amount Direct Line was prepared to offer Mr and 
Mrs H was significantly less than their contractor had indicated repairs would cost. The 
policy terms and conditions say: 
If we can repair or rebuild the damaged part, but we agree to use your suppliers or 
make a cash payment, we will only pay you what it would have cost us using our 
suppliers and therefore the amount you receive may be lower than the cost charged 
by your suppliers.On this basis, I consider it was appropriate for Direct Line to only pay the amount it would 
have cost it to carry out the repairs, not how much Mr and Mrs H paid. And while Im mindful 
of the comments provided from their contractor the cost of the quote was higher as a result 
of the wider circumstances, I still consider proceeding with their contractor was a choice 
made by Mr and Mrs H. It follows, Im not intending to recommend Direct Line increase the 
payment it has made to bridge the gap between its quote and that of Mr and Mrs Hs 
contractor. 
Ive also considered whether Direct Line were required to carry out repairs for the cause of 
the leak, as well as the damage caused. The policy terms say:
Your buildings are covered for loss or damage caused by

Water or oil escaping from fixed water or heating systems
We also cover water or oil escaping from:
underground drains and pipes
domestic appliances
storage tanks
We dont cover:

tanks, pipes, appliances or heating systems themselves
Having considered the settlement offered by Direct Line against the policy terms, Im 
satisfied Direct Line isnt required to carry out any repairs to the source of the leak, only the 
cost of damage incurred as a result of the leak. And, as Ive said, it only needs to pay what it 
would have cost it to do so, not the amount Mr and Mrs H paid their own contractor. Having 
considered the scope of works provided, Im satisfied its done this. 
Mr and Mrs H have asked if the two claims from 2017 and 2020 could be considered as one. 
However, for the same reasons as our investigator outlined, I dont think they should be. I 
appreciate the 2017 claim was only revisited during the 2020 claim. However there were two 
separate escapes of water. On the basis there were two separate events, with damage to 
the lounge ceiling which wasnt repaired in 2017, I think it is appropriate that they are treated 
as separate claims. Like our investigator, I do not agree it would be right for the two claims to 
be merged simply because they occurred in the same place, with damage from the 2017 
claim not put right after it occurred. It follows, Im not intending to require Direct Line to 
amend any information it has recorded about the two claims on the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE). 
Mr H considers he should be reimbursed for the time hes spent dealing with this claim. I 
acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H have experienced some inconvenience - but this 
inconvenience initially came about as a result of an escape of water in their home. Direct 
Line acknowledged there were times when it could have done more to keep Mr and Mrs H 
updated on the progress of their claim. It has offered £125 in respect of this lack of 
communication. I consider this to be fair a reasonable payment which reflects the impact the 
handling of the claim had on them in the circumstances. Im not intending to require Direct 
Line to increase this payment. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman