DRN-3548982
The complaint
Mr D complains that Clerical Medical Financial Services Limited (Clerical Medical) will 
not allow him to cash in his annuities with it.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in a provisional 
decision. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
Mr D had two personal pensions with Clerical Medical. In 2008, Mr D enquired about taking his 
benefits early under the policies. He spoke to Clerical Medical and it was agreed he would be 
sent the required forms to take his benefits.
Mr D decided to take his benefits with Clerical Medical  it looks like he was given advice by a 
financial adviser in doing so, he selected to take tax free cash and the remaining funds were used 
to buy an annuities. Mr D selected annuities with five year guarantees and a 50% spouses 
pension. Annuity one was set up to pay just under a £150 a year and the other approximately £850 
a year.
More recently, Mr D contacted Clerical Medical with the help of his MP to see if he could cash 
in his annuity. Clerical Medical said legislation did allow annuities valued under
£10,000 to be cashed in but this was at its discretion and it had chosen not to offer this. Mr D was 
unhappy with this as he feels the sums are so small hed be better off with a lump sum.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before Mr D took out his annuities in 2008, he says he asked if he could take all of his benefits as a 
lump sum but he wasnt entitled to do so. The rules at the time only allowed a payment of a pension 
as a lump sum in certain conditions. Mr Ds pension value was above the limit allowing for small pot 
cash values to be paid. There was also legislation that allowed a cash value to be paid if the total 
pension benefits (excluding state pension) was under the triviality limit of £18,000 (this figure was 
amended over the years) but I can see the values of these two pensions wouldve taken Mr D over 
that limit. Therefore, he was limited to the
legislation at the time and if he wished to take his benefits, realistically, hed have to take an 
annuity.
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12)
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that scheme 
if
(a)the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition is 
met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and make 
payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes cashing-in of 
annuities)  was a permissive over-ride. What this means is the schemes are allowed to make 
these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mr Ds position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it can, 
but only up to a limit of £10,000.
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance? 
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally 
The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Principles for Businesses
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of their 
business model.
Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should act in 
the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the expense of other 
customers. Nor to act in a particular customers interest without consideration of other factors or 
wider implications.
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some 
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.
-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there 
may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal arrangement 
with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could cause issues with 
commutation.
-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively affect 
the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case
1.Does Clerical Medical have discretion to commute Mr Ds annuities as requested? 
For example:
-Is the value under £10,000?
-Is Mr D the legal owner of the annuity?
-Is Clerical Medical the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2.If Clerical Medical is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Mr Ds best 
interests to allow commutation? For example:
-Would it expose him to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
-Would it affect other income that he relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3.If Clerical Medical was free to grant Mr Ds request to commute the annuities and 
doing so would have been in his best interest, was it fair and reasonable for Clerical
Medical to refuse? In other words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and 
reasonable way?
My findings in light of the above considerations
Clerical Medical hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free 
to allow Mr D to cash-in the annuities. However, the larger of the annuities, which pays 
approximately £850 a year and has a spouses pension is likely to have a value over
£10,000. So, its possible Clerical Medical may not have discretion to allow cashing in on this 
annuity in any event.
But I am proceeding on the basis that it does have discretion to commute the other smaller 
annuity.
Clerical Medical has also not provided any information specific to Mr D to show that he would be 
worse off if he were to commute this annuity to a cash lump sum. Having considered what Mr Ds 
told us and the value of his annuity, which is paying him just £150 a year, I agree the annuity is so 
small that it doesnt appear to provide any meaningful income on which he relies. And a cash lump 
sum in place, even if relatively small, would most likely benefit him more than the annuity. I also note this is what Mr D has said he preferred to do at the outset (i.e. take his whole pension as a 
cash lump sum) had that been possible at the time. For these reasons, and subject to the lump sum 
value (which hasnt been determined), Ive proceeded also on the basis that it would be in Mr Ds 
personal interest to encash the annuity.
This case therefore comes down to whether Clerical Medical fairly took into account Mr Ds 
interests when it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow him to cash-in his annuity. I think it 
did.
Clerical Medical has told us it is unwilling at this point in time to offer a cash in value to Mr D, 
essentially because the annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed in and that its 
documentation made this clear at the time. It made a number of points about this, for example:
-It has concerns about the value it would be offering customers if it allowed cashing in 
and whether it would be the right outcome for its customers.
-Their annuity contracts dont allow cashing in.
-Annuities are long-term commitments, backed by long-term and illiquid assets, so cash 
values arent easily realised. And to selling these assets early to fund cashing in values 
could adversely impact customer payouts
-Without appropriate processes and checks, customers could be exposed to the risk of 
poor outcomes.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think Clerical Medicals points are fair ones. I dont think 
Clerical Medical simply disregarded Mr Ds interests in this case. Its position is based on its 
considerations of what allowing commutation could mean for its customers and business model 
more widely.
It seems to me that Clerical Medical could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to 
treat Mr Ds case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for a 
business the size of Clerical Medical. However, I acknowledge Clerical Medicals difficulty here. 
Im not persuaded there is reason in Mr Ds case to treat him differently to other customers with 
small annuities. (Its my understanding that is a significant portion of customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Mr D would probably be better off with a cash lump sum and the annuity isnt 
useful to him. Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt something Mr D had a 
right to. And while Clerical Medical was free to allow his request, Im satisfied it does have other 
legitimate interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity product was designed, the impact on 
Clerical Medicals existing systems and processes, the interests of its customers more widely and 
the potential cost.
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Clerical Medical to decline Mr Ds 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr D in line with other 
customers.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities and Im 
aware that some businesses have previously offered cash values to customers. If in the future 
Clerical Medical changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, its possible 
Mr D may benefit from such a change. But in the present circumstances I dont think hes been 
treated unfairly.
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I am not 
intending to uphold his complaint.
Neither Mr D or Clerical Medical made any further substantive comment following the 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings reached in my provisional 
decision. And so my final decision remains the same and as set out above.
In summary, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Clerical Medical to decline Mr Ds 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr D in line with other 
customers.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman