DRN-3865681
The complaint
Mrs P complains that HSBC UK unfairly handled her claim for a refund of money she paid for 
a course.
What happened
Mrs P enrolled on a university course in August 2020, she used her HSBC credit card to 
make two payments for her tuition fees for £2,500 on 22 January 2021 and £1,700 on 15 
April 2021.
Mrs P was unable to continue with her studies due to ill health. Unable to get a refund from 
the university, she contacted HSBC to ask it for help getting a refund and completed a 
transaction dispute form in April 2021. Mrs P incorrectly provided her debit card details for 
the transactions, but the transactions were made on her credit card. As the transactions 
couldnt be located HSBC closed the claim on 7 June 2021. Mrs P wasnt advised of this.
Mrs P continued to chase an update on her claim, in November 2021 the claim was passed 
to the disputes team. HSBC said it was unable to raise a chargeback because it was now 
more than 120 days since the payments were made. It sent Mrs P request for supporting 
evidence to see if she had any other valid dispute rights. HSBC said Mrs P hadnt provided 
sufficient evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation. And she was out of time for 
a chargeback, it declined her refund claim.
Mrs P complained to HSBC, she was unhappy that it didnt progress her dispute when she 
first raised it in April 2021. She thought it could have located the transactions or let her know 
earlier that it couldnt initially locate the transactions. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. It 
said its disputes team were unable to locate credit card accounts from debit card details and 
it relied on the customer to provide accurate account information.
Mrs P wasnt happy with the response, she complained to our service.
Our investigator didnt think HSBC made a mistake when it declined Mrs Ps dispute, as she 
didnt think there was a valid chargeback reason or any evidence of a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, because Mrs P wasnt entitled to a refund under the universitys terms 
and conditions. However, she didnt think HSBC had done a good job with handling Mrs Ps 
claim. She thought this had caused Mrs P additional stress, so asked it to pay her £100 
compensation to reflect this.
HSBC paid Mrs P £100 compensation, Mrs P doesnt think this goes far enough, she asked 
for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
And our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the nature of our service as a free and 
informal alternative to the courts.
Generally, where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the 
card provider can consider the dispute under two guises- chargeback and section 75 claim. 
Ive set out my findings under the headings below.
chargeback 
 
Chargeback is a process by which disputes are resolved between the card issuer and 
merchant, under the relevant card scheme. There is no right for a consumer to require that a 
chargeback claim be made. But if the right to make a chargeback claim exists under the 
applicable scheme rules  and if there is a reasonable prospect of success  I consider it to 
be good practice for a chargeback claim to be made.
 
In November 2021 HSBC considered Mrs Ps dispute under the Visa scheme rules, it said it 
couldnt raise a chargeback as it was outside the 120-day time limit. However, Mrs P initially 
raised her dispute within the time limit, but HSBC were unable to locate the transaction at 
the time. Ive considered the handling of the claim separately, below.
 
HSBC has said that even if the claim was considered in time, there was no valid chargeback 
reason to raise a chargeback.
I can see the visa chargeback reason cancelled merchandise/service is relevant here, 
however, to rely on this reason, the cardholder needs to be entitled to cancel and a refund 
under the merchants terms and conditions. Having considered the universitys terms, I cant 
see that Mrs P was entitled to a refund. So even if HSBC had submitted a chargeback under 
this reason within 120 days, I think its likely the university would have successfully defended 
the claim and I dont think the chargeback would have been successful. In the 
circumstances, I dont think Mrs P lost out by HSBC not raising a chargeback in time.
section 75 claim
In certain circumstances section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of 
allowing Mrs P to hold HSBC responsible for misrepresentations or breaches of contract by 
the university.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact made by a party, which induces another 
party to enter into a contract with it. And as Mrs P hasnt raised any issues about the 
university making false statements, Ive only considered whether there is any evidence of a 
breach of contract by the university.
Mrs P enrolled on the course in August 2020 and cancelled due to ill health in April 2021. 
The university wouldnt refund her tuition fees. I can see that if Mrs P cancelled the course 
within 10 weeks of registration, she would have been entitled to a 50% refund, but Mrs P 
cancelled well outside this period, so I cant fairly say there was a breach of contract by the 
university.
Mrs P says that she applied to defer her exams in November 2020, due to difficulties with 
her internet connection, and not being able to prepare and the anxiety caused by this worry. 
However, she said the university failed to respond. So, Ive looked at the universitys terms 
on examination/assessment deferrals. Having considered these, I can see exam anxiety, lack of preparation and technical difficulties are not considered to be sufficient grounds for a 
deferral. 
According to the policy, it would consider the following valid reasons for a deferral; a 
debilitating illness, mental shock/trauma (like a bereavement) or being a victim of serious 
crime. And I cant see that Mrs P provided the university with evidence of any of these valid 
reasons, so I cant agree that the university were in breach of contract when it didnt approve 
her application to defer her exams.
Mrs P provided a copy of the universitys student protection plan, but this relates to the 
universitys risk assessment for the continuation of study for its students, it doesnt relate to 
Mrs Ps right to cancel or defer the course. So, I dont think this evidences a breach of 
contract.
Mrs P is unhappy with the customer services received from the university, she doesnt feel 
they were supportive, and they didnt respond to her request for assistance. She has told us 
this has impacted her health. And whilst I do sympathise with Mrs P, we are unable to hold 
HSBC responsible for the university customer service issues she experienced. And as I dont 
think Mrs P has provided sufficient evidence of either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, I dont think HSBC unfairly declined her section 75 claim, so I wont be 
asking it to refund the transactions.
claim handling
The parties are familiar with what happened here, so I wont repeat this here, but Ill 
summarise the key points. Mrs P s claim wasnt initially progressed in April 2021, because 
she used her debit card details on the form and the dispute team werent able to locate the 
transactions. I can see Mrs P chased this up in May and August 2021, but I cant see that 
HSBC got back to her or let her know it couldnt locate the transactions. I think that if HSBC 
let her know it couldnt locate the transactions, Mrs P would have provided the correct card 
details and it would have been able to tell her earlier that it didnt think she had a valid 
chargeback or section 75 claim. 
In addition, HSBC asked Mrs P on several occasions for further information, but she was 
returning the same information. I think it would have been helpful at this point if it could have 
explained why the information, shed already provided wasnt sufficient and what it needed to 
see and why. So, whilst I dont think the outcome of Mrs Ps dispute was affected by HSBCs 
poor handling, I do think this caused Mrs P unnecessary frustration.
Putting things right
I think the £100 compensation to reflect the poor claim handling, recommended by the 
investigator is fair.  HSBC has already paid Mrs P £100 compensation to reflect this, and Im 
not satisfied it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to increase the compensation 
amount. 
I appreciate Mrs P has been caused stress and worry about having to repay her student 
loan, but this is due to her not being entitled to a refund from the university and not caused 
by HSBCs handling of the claim. So, I wont be asking it to take any further action.
  
Whilst I know my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mrs P, I should point out that my 
decision is our last say on this complaint, should Mrs P choose not to accept it, this does not 
prevent her from pursuing the matter in the courts should she wish to do so.My final decision
My final decision is I partly uphold the complaint and think the £100 compensation paid by 
HSBC UK is fair and reasonable settlement of the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman