DRN-2977442
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have failed to refund £6,800 that she 
says was lost as part of a scam. 
What happened
Mrs C made two transfers to an auction house totalling £6,800 (of which £5,000 was 
transferred on 26 May 2020 and the following £1,800 on 5 June 2020). The payments were 
a deposit for a house she was purchasing via auction. 
Mrs C subsequently raised a fraud claim with Santander as she believed the auction house 
to be fraudulent as they would not return her money. However, Santander refused her claim 
as it transpired that both the property she bid on and the auction house were in fact genuine. 
They said that Mrs C had paid the money in line with the auction houses terms and 
conditions, which required her to pay a deposit in order to bid on the property. Santander 
said the reason the auction house refused to return the funds was because Mrs Cs solicitor 
failed to complete the purchase within 28 days, so she lost her deposit.
Mrs C complained about Santanders decision to not refund the money. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint as he didnt think it had been lost as part of a scam. So he didnt 
consider Santander to have any obligation to refund Mrs Cs money, as it appeared to be a 
civil dispute between her and the auction house. Mrs C disagreed, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Im not persuaded that Mrs C lost her money as part of a scam. The auction house 
she paid it to is a genuine company thats listed on Companies House and is still 
trading. Santander have also shown that the account Mrs C paid the fund to is a 
legitimate company account in the name of the auction house, and it seems that the 
property she bid on was also a genuine property up for auction with the company. 
Action Fraud have also said that they could not identify any line of enquiry they could 
pursue against the auction house in these circumstances.
So, theres very little to suggest that the auction house was fraudulent or that they 
had set out to defraud Mrs C of her money. Instead, it seems that she is simply 
unhappy with the auction companys process and decision to keep her deposit after 
an alleged breach of contract. I understand that Mrs C may not consider she has 
breached their terms, because she says her solicitor never received a sellers pack 
from the auction house. But this forms the basis of a civil dispute between Mrs C and 
the auction house, which is something this service is unable to assist with given that 
they are not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Santander is signed up to the contingent reimbursement model (CRM) code that sets 
out when a bank should reimburse customers that have been victims of fraud. But 
there is no such obligation in circumstances such as this, where there is no evidence 
of any fraud but rather a civil dispute between two parties. I also dont consider there 
to be any reason for Santander to have intervened or warned Mrs C about making 
the payment to the auction house in the first place, given that it was a genuine 
payment to a legitimate company. Therefore, I do not consider there to be any fair 
and reasonable basis for Santander to have to refund the money Mrs C has paid.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs C, and I sympathise with her situation 
as she has lost quite a large sum of money. But Im not persuaded that Santander has done 
anything wrong by refusing to refund the payment, given theres no evidence to suggest it 
has been lost as part of a scam. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman