DRN-3940351
The complaint
Mr A complains about the customer service he received when he visited a HSBC UK Bank 
Plc (HSBC) branch. He also says he was told hed receive compensation following the 
incident, but this didnt happen.
What happened
Mr As visit to a HSBC branch in July 2022
Mr A visited a HSBC branch in July 2022. He says he originally went in intending to make a 
transaction but he felt unwell, so he sat down inside the branch. Mr A says he was then 
approached by a member of staff. 
Mr A says he explained he was feeling unwell and was waiting for a taxi. However, in 
summary, he says he was shouted at and told to leave the branch. Mr A says there was also 
another member of staff who approached him too. Mr A went back to the branch and spoke 
with the manager about what had happened. He then ultimately complained to HSBC.
HSBCs investigation
HSBC reviewed the complaint and said it wasnt able to find any information about what had 
happened in the branch, so it wasnt upholding Mr As complaint. It also said Mr A had raised 
34 complaints since 2020, so it appeared that HSBC wasnt able to provide the level of 
service Mr A expected and he may wish to find an alternative banking provider.
Financial Ombudsman Service
Unhappy about what had happened, Mr A brought his complaint to this service. He also said 
HSBC told him hed receive compensation for the incident, but this never happened.
One of our investigators reviewed the information and evidence provided by both Mr A and 
HSBC but didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. In summary, he didnt think it was 
unreasonable that the branch staff had approached Mr A whilst he was sat down in the 
branch. And, ultimately, whilst our investigator understood what Mr A had told us about what 
had happened, he thought HSBC responded to Mr As complaint fairly. 
Our investigator also acknowledged that compensation wasnt offered immediately, but 
explained theyd usually expect the full complaints process to be followed before any 
compensation was offered.   
HSBC didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr A did and repeated some of his 
earlier points. As an agreement hasnt been reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain my reasons why. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I consider is 
most likely to have happened based on the evidence available.
Mr As visit to the branch
Mr A is unhappy about how the branch staff treated him during his visit. Both parties are in 
agreement that Mr A was approached by a member of staff whilst he was sat down. I was 
sorry to hear Mr A felt he was treated unfairly in the branch, and I acknowledge he says he 
sat down because he felt unwell. That being said, in the circumstances, I dont consider it 
unreasonable that the branch staff would want to ask him questions to find out the reason for 
his visit that day. 
Im also not persuaded, based on the evidence Ive been provided with, that there were any 
personal circumstances that the branch ought to have been aware of that meant they should 
have been mindful of how they approached the situation from the outset.
What happened next
Both Mr A and HSBC have different accounts about what happened next. In summary, Mr A 
says he explained he was feeling unwell and was waiting for a taxi. Mr A says that a member 
of staff wouldnt leave him alone and was in close proximity to him. 
He says a member of staff raised their voice and told Mr A he had to leave the branch. Mr A 
says that matters ultimately led to him becoming frustrated and also shouting. Mr A 
mentioned there was also another member of staff who had come over.
In summary, the branch staff also say that Mr A said he was waiting for a taxi, but when a 
member of staff suggested he waited outside as taxis dont stop outside the branch, Mr A 
began shouting aggressively and using offensive language. The branch staff also say 
another member of staff came over and suggested that the initial member of staff leave the 
branch floor.
Whilst the versions of events differ, both parties are in agreement that matters did escalate, 
and Mr A raised his voice. Both parties are also consistent about the fact that Mr A was 
asked to leave but he initially refused to, and that there was mention of calling the police.
HSBCs actions
Ive thought very carefully about all the testimony Ive been provided with. On balance, I 
dont think the branch staff would have taken the decision to tell Mr A they would call the 
police lightly, particularly as they say they went on to do so. And, its unlikely this would have 
been done unless the branch staff reasonably believed Mr A was behaving inappropriately. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr A says he was asked to leave before matters escalated, on balance, 
and considering all the information available to me, Im more persuaded that the branch 
staffs decision to ask him to leave and take additional action was following behaviour it 
considered to be inappropriate. And, as mentioned, both parties are in agreement that 
matters did escalate at a point. So, Im more persuaded that this was why additional action 
was taken. Therefore, on balance, I dont consider the branch staff treated Mr A unfairly, 
given the overall circumstances.
Mr As discussion with the branch managerMr A went into the branch again after the incident and spoke with the branch manager. As I 
understand it, he was unhappy that they didnt do more to try and diffuse the previous 
incident. 
Having reviewed the testimony provided by the branch, the manager says they initially went 
to see what was happening during the incident, before deciding that one of their staff 
members, the second staff member who had come over, appeared to have matters under 
control. So, they instead spent time with the initial member of staff who had been upset by 
the situation. Having thought carefully about this, I dont think this was an unreasonable 
decision.
Compensation
Ive also considered that Mr A says he was promised more than £50 compensation for the 
incident that took place. Ive listened to a call where Mr A spoke with HSBC about his 
complaint and said he wanted £50 compensation. In summary, the representative told Mr A 
that if what he says took place did happen, hed be compensated more than that amount. 
But they wouldnt be able to process compensation in that moment, and Mr A would need to 
wait for the matter to be investigated and for the relevant team to get back to him.
I acknowledge that listening to parts of what the representative says in isolation sounds like 
Mr A would receive compensation once the investigation was complete. However, in the 
context of all the other commentary, Im persuaded that they meant this would happen in the 
event that the team investigating the complaint also found that matters happened in the way 
Mr A described. So, while I can understand why Mr A would be disappointed to not receive 
compensation, as the complaint wasnt upheld, I dont think HSBC was wrong for not offering 
this.  
I know Mr A will be disappointed by this outcome but, overall, I dont consider HSBC treated 
him unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont think HSBC needs to do anything to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman