DRN-2252610
The complaint
Ms R alleges she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
I know Ms R has complained about another PPI policy too. So, to be clear, in this decision 
Im addressing the PPI policy Ms R took out with a Debenhams store card, in April 1994 
(ending 8417). The credit facility was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a 
change in the company which is now responsible for answering these types of complaint. 
The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD.
Ill therefore refer to AXA throughout this final decision for consistency.  
What happened
The store card was taken out in a store and obtained by filling out an application leaflet. 
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Ms R disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Ms R makes a number of points of complaint and Ive considered them all with care. The first 
is that she didnt really want, or properly agree to, the PPI being added to her card account. 
She says it was implied that the store card would only be approved if she also agreed to 
have PPI with it. 
I certainly dont have any doubts that Ms R is being anything other than very honest and 
genuine in her recollections. Nevertheless, we are talking about a sale, in a store setting, 
some 25 years ago and Im sure shell understand that I need to consider her recollections 
alongside the actual physical evidence I have from the time.
That evidence, Im afraid, points in the other direction. There were two options available on 
the application form  a yes option to have PPI and a no option to decline it. Ms R ticked 
the box which said, Yes, I want my account covered with Payment Protection And she 
left blank the box which said, No, I do not require protection There was another set of 
options, about theft or loss of card insurance. I note Ms R didnt take up any of these. She 
then signed the application form.
I accept Ms R now feels the policy was mis-sold. But given the above, its far more likely that 
no such implication was made because I think Ms R could have very easily been able to see 
that two options existed and declining the PPI simply involved doing nothing. I also think 
shed have then been sent information about the policy as it was being set up, and then seen 
that she was starting to incur certain PPI charges, set out on her statement(s). I think if shed 
made a mistake at the counter, shed have wanted to clarify what the incoming charges were 
for and potentially cancelled the PPI. The evidence shows she asked for the PPI and would 
have been able to see it on her account.
The next thing I looked at was whether this was an advised sale. Weve obviously seen 
quite few similar sales to this one and our overwhelming experience is that they took place in 
the store where no sales staff were qualified to offer financial advice. Theres nothing else 
that shows me advice was given here, such as a comprehensive assessment of Ms Rs 
wider financial situation. This was therefore a non-advised sale, and this means AXA only 
needed to make sure the PPI was clear, fair and not mis-leading. The choice about buying it 
was for Ms R to make.
I agree that a better job could have been done in explaining the policy at the point of sale. 
However, I think Ms R would have still been able to see the policy came with a cost. The 
evidence also shows that more information about the policy was readily available, should 
she wish to look further into it. But it also set out, albeit in very broad terms, that the policy 
covered her against losing her job or being too ill to work. Again, this could have been more 
detailed, but I still think she would have been able to see what the cover was for. 
A further point of complaint from Ms R is that she was expecting a baby at the time. She 
says she went on to take extended leave for some years from her job until her child was old 
enough to attend nursery in around 1997. I understand the point she is making  that the 
insurance was of limited value - but I cant use what subsequently happened and apply it to 
the circumstances of the sale in April 1994. As Ive said, Ms R would have been able to see 
the PPI cover was mainly about protecting her payments if she lost or could no longer do her 
job, so her pregnancy may well have been relevant to the choices she made about taking 
the cover. But she agreed to buy the policy, so I think its reasonable for me to conclude it 
was something she thought would be of use at the time. On balance therefore, I think she 
had enough information on which to make an informed decision about what she wanted to 
do. As a non-advised sale, this was her decision to make. 
Ms R told us she had some sickness protection already with her job, implying she didnt 
need any PPI. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the 
benefits Ms R says she enjoyed. Looking at the type of work she did, I think the protections 
she had would have been quite moderate. But in any event, these dont necessarily mean 
the PPI wasnt of use; she was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in some of these policies. The benefits the policy offered gave 
more protection than most credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost 
her job, the PPI wouldve paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month 
until she returned to work or until all the balance was returned to zero. Life, injury and 
hospitalisation cover was also included. These benefits wouldve been in addition to any 
other means Ms R had in place at the time.
So, although I cant say why Ms R decided to select this cover when she applied for the 
card, I think the PPI policy was something that would have been of use to her. 
For me to uphold Ms Rs complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that she wasnt given 
a real option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply dont 
have that evidence. Instead, what Ive seen makes me think Ms R specifically selected the 
PPI and had access nearby to the information she needed about the PPI policy and its rules. 
I dont think theres evidence that any better  or more  information would have changed 
how Ms R acted. Finally, Ms R has remarked that she has been compensated for a similar PPI transaction 
with another major retailer and the situation was identical to her Debenhams case. She cant 
understand why one company pays out and another doesnt. I do see how this can seem 
unfair, but no two sales, in my experience, are identical. The dates involved, the terms and 
conditions of the accounts, and the commercial decisions taken by the different companies 
all contribute to the outcome of these types of complaint.
Ive looked carefully at this complaint. Im very sorry to disappoint her, but I cant say this 
policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman