DRN-2823706
The complaint
Ms M complains Bamboo Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
Ms M is represented by a claims management company; but for ease Ill refer to all 
submissions as if they were made by her directly. 
What happened
Bamboo approved Ms M for a £3,500 loan in March 2019. The term of the loan was 24 
months; with repayments of approximately £230. 
Ms M says at the point of the loan she was experiencing financial hardship; and had 
Bamboo completed reasonable and proportionate checks it ought to have realised the loan 
was unaffordable to her. She says she has lost out financially as she has had to pay 
additional interest and charges.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He felt Bamboo had completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks. This is because the checks it did complete gave 
Bamboo insight into Ms Ms finances. He also felt that given the high level of debt that Ms M 
already had; it should not have lent as further lending was always likely unsustainable to her.
Bamboo disagreed with our investigator. It felt it had completed proportionate checks. It 
maintained it was reasonable to rely on the information that had been used at the point of 
application. It also says that Ms M used this loan to consolidate some of her existing debt. It 
therefore maintained it had lent responsibly to Ms M.
As a side note; prior to the assessment of our investigator; Bamboo had offered Ms M to 
refund her four months of payments as a gesture of goodwill with no admission of liability. 
Ms M has declined this offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
Bamboo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Ms M. The relevant 
rules, regulations and guidance at the time Bamboo lent required it to carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Ms Ms ability to afford the loan 
and repay it sustainably over its term without causing her financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for Bamboo to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably. Sustainably in this instance means making payments without incurring 
financial difficulties such as having to borrow further or failing to meet other financial 
commitments in order to meet this repayment. 
All parties agree that Bamboo completed sufficient checks in this instance. This is because 
the information it was provided with, including the application Ms M made and her credit file; 
gave Bamboo a sufficient insight into her finances in order to make a reasonable lending 
decision. However; whilst that may be the case; I disagree that Bamboos decision to lend 
was fair in this instance. 
The credit file search which was completed at the time of the application demonstrated that 
Ms Ms financial situation was showing signs of hardship; and in particular a reliance on 
credit. Ms Ms total debt at the point of the application was approximately £42,000. Ms M had 
declared that her monthly income was a total of £3,100 (this was made up of salary and a 
secondary income). This meant that her debt to income level was incredibly high. She also 
had a credit utilisation of around 80%. 
The credit was made up of a number of different products including unsecured loans; credit 
cards, mail orders and payday loans. Ms M also had a history of taking cash advancements. 
There were also signs of distress in the form of missed and late payments; as well as her 
exceeding her agreed credit limits on a number of occasions. 
As Bamboo is aware it needs to ensure any lending is sustainable to Ms M. It needs to 
ensure the lending isnt going to increase her financial hardship; without leading her to 
having to borrow further to make repayments. Looking at the information which was provided 
Im satisfied that was always likely to be the case with Ms M; and Bamboo ought reasonably 
to have come to this conclusion. 
It is clear from the credit file that she was struggling financially; and was reliant on credit to 
maintain her finances. The reliance on credit cards (including exceeding her limits at times); 
as well as using payday loans suggest that Ms M was not in a position to take on any further 
lending sustainably. Whilst Bamboo says Ms M was using this loan to consolidate debt, 
considering the sheer the volume of debt she had and the relatively low level of this loan; Im 
not persuaded that it wouldve likely been of such benefit to Ms M that she wouldve been 
able to sustainably repay the amount. 
And considering this; Im satisfied that Bamboos decision to lend was therefore unfair. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Ms M has lost out financially as a result of Bamboos actions. And as such it 
needs to put things right.
In order to put things right, I require Bamboo Limited to:
Add up the total amount of money Ms M received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Ms M made should be deducted from this amount; as well 
as any charges or fees associated with the loan.
a) If this results in Ms M having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Bamboo Limited should attempt 
to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms M.
After all adjustments have been made and once there is no outstanding balance, 
Bamboo Limited need to remove any negative information recorded on Ms Ms credit 
file regarding this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Bamboo Limited must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bamboo Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman