DRN-3436421
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way that Experian Limited has handled his credit information. 
What happened
Mr W is unhappy that an incorrect credit score led him to apply for credit for which he was 
turned down. Mr W wants Experian to remove the search records.
Mr W says that he was the victim of fraud in 2021 so the police advised him to check his 
credit report. Mr W already had a free Experian account which gave him limited access to 
information about his credit file so he subscribed for full access to his credit report.
After checking his full report, Mr W says everything seemed fine so he cancelled the paid 
subscription. At this point, Mr Ws Experian credit score was around 770. 
In January 2022, Mr W checked his free Experian account and saw that his credit score had 
increased to more than 900. On this basis, Mr W assumed that his existing credit balances 
had decreased as expected so he applied for credit but was declined. 
Experian explained that Mr W had registered for multiple Experian memberships, often using 
fake email addresses. Mr W has two memberships linked to two different email addresses. 
Experians records indicate that Mr W only provided his previous residential address for the 
free account and that this is what led to his credit score appearing to be higher than it was. 
As Experian holds Mr Ws previous and current address for the paid for account, his score is 
lower.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint be upheld. He explained which 
credit file profiles Mr W holds and that for the paid membership, Mr W had provided both his 
previous and current residential addresses.
The investigator told Mr W that it was his choice to apply for credit after seeing a higher 
credit score in early 2022. The investigator didnt think he could hold Experian liable for this 
decision. The investigator also said that a particular credit score doesnt guarantee 
acceptance of any credit applications. 
Mr W is very unhappy with the investigators recommendation. Mr W says he had 
confirmation from lenders that theyd refunded money to him so assumed that this was why 
his credit score had improved. Mr W says Experian apologised for cancelling the wrong 
Experian account and that this meant he saw the wrong credit score. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to the key issues. The rules that 
govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
When Mr W first complained to this service, he thought that Experian was reporting the 
wrong information about one of his credit cards. On the recommendation of the investigator, 
Mr W raised this with the credit card company so I havent said anything further about this 
aspect of his complaint in my decision. 
I understand that Mr Ws decision to apply for credit in early 2022 was driven by seeing an 
improved credit score. I can understand why Mr W thought that this meant that his credit 
utilisation levels had been reduced, but he made this assumption without checking his full 
credit report. Instead, Mr W relied on his previous credit report from December 2021.This 
was Mr Ws choice and not one that I can blame on Experian. 
Lenders dont see Mr Ws Experian credit score  its simply an indication of how a potential 
lender may view an individuals credit rating rather than a formal assessment. Instead, 
lenders use credit data from credit reference agencies such as Experian, along with any 
information the applicant has provided to assess a credit application and calculate a credit 
score based on its own mathematical model. Experian doesnt decide the outcome of a 
credit application. 
For me to find Experian at fault, I would have to decide that it made a mistake with Mr Ws 
data. And that the mistake was the only or at least the main reason why Mr Ws credit 
applications were unsuccessful.
In Mr Ws case, I dont have any evidence to suggest that Experian held incorrect 
information on Mr Ws credit file. By this I mean things such as a default that shouldnt have 
been there or an account that didnt belong to Mr W. As I dont have any evidence to suggest 
that Experian held incorrect information on Mr Ws credit file, I dont hold it responsible for 
the failed credit applications. This means I dont require Experian to remove the associated 
credit searches.
Although Mr W thought that both of his residential addresses were registered to the free 
account that he held with Experian, this isnt what Experians records show. According to 
Experians records, Mr Ws current residential address wasnt added to the active free 
membership account. This is the reason why Mr W was presented with a higher credit score 
when he checked in early 2022.
I appreciate that in December 2021 there had been some confusion over which of Mr Ws 
Equifax memberships were being cancelled. Mr W says Experian apologised for this but I 
dont think it changes my decision as I cant reasonably find that Experian is responsible for 
the failed credit applications.
The investigator has told Mr W which memberships Experian currently holds for him. One of 
those is a free account and the other a paid account. I leave it with Mr W to tell Experian 
which if any of these memberships he wishes to keep.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but based on what Ive seen, I dont consider Experian made a 
mistake that led to him being turned down for credit. This means I dont require Experian to 
pay compensation or take further steps.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman