DRN-3611358
The complaint
Mr E complains that AJ Bell Management Limited trading as AJ Bell Youinvest delayed the 
administration of a corporate action, which incurred him a financial loss.
What happened
On 1 April 2021 AJ Bell sent Mr E a secure message concerning a new corporate action  a 
rights issue  relating to one of the holdings on his account. He responded the same day to 
say he intended to subscribe to his full entitlement. AJ Bell confirmed on 3 April 2021 that it 
would provide relevant information when the rights had been issued. 
On 12 April 2021 AJ Bell sent a further message to Mr E saying the rights had been 
allocated to his account, but that the issue had restrictions on UK holders. The message 
went on to say that if Mr E believed he was eligible to participate, he should confirm by way 
of a secure message. A deadline of midnight the same day was given. Mr E did respond to 
the message, but not until 15 April 2021, so missing the deadline. AJ Bell explained this 
meant his election had not been submitted. 
Mr E made a complaint about the process, but AJ Bell didnt uphold it. It relied upon the fact 
that it had sent the secure message asking for confirmation of eligibility with a deadline for 
response that hadnt been met. It pointed to its terms and conditions concerning the 
communication of corporate actions and the responsibility of account holders to monitor their 
accounts and ensure secure messages were read.
Mr E referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator also didnt consider it should 
be upheld, for broadly the same reasons as those given by AJ Bell.   
Mr E didnt accept this. He felt hed been given insufficient time to reply, that it wasnt 
reasonable to expect him to monitor his messages daily, and he stressed that, in any event, 
hed already said hed wanted to participate. Mr E also noted that hed participated in a 
similar rights issue previously in respect of the same holding, so it shouldve been apparent 
he was eligible. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I requested some further detail from AJ Bell regarding timings and its actions between 
receipt of the preliminary notification of the right issue on 31 March 2021 (following which 
notification was sent to customers on 1 April 2021) and the deadline for confirmation of 
eligibility given to Mr E, of midnight 12 April 2021. 
AJ Bell has explained that the main events following 1 April 2021 were - 
Wednesday, 7 April 2021  the CREST settlement system uploaded details of the 
rights distribution.
Thursday, 8 April 2021  rights were credited to AJ Bell by CREST, then to customer 
accounts.
Friday, 9 April 2021  the CREST information indicated restrictions on shareholders 
in the UK and other countries, so more details were sought by AJ Bell.
Monday, 12 April 2021  a response was received from CREST, but this simply 
referred AJ Bell to the offer document. 
It seems that in light of the lack of clarity, AJ Bell decided to notify customers of the 
restriction via secure message and say that if they believed they were eligible, to send a 
secure message before the deadline of 12 April 2021 at midnight. It has explained that this 
tight deadline was set as the CREST deadline was midday Wednesday 14 April 2021.
Given the above, while I understand Mr Es frustration and disappointment, I nevertheless 
feel that due to the very limited timings and related complexities, the process followed by AJ 
Bell and the very tight deadline it ultimately gave were broadly reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I appreciate that Mr E and others in his position were given only just over 12 hours to 
respond to confirm eligibility. But this narrow timeframe stemmed primarily from the short 
period over which the corporate action process happened, rather than it being a result of an 
error on the part of AJ Bell. Ultimately it did carry out the process in accordance with its 
terms and conditions, albeit I accept the overall circumstances werent ideal. 
I note what Mr E has said about having already provided an initial confirmation that he 
intended to take up his full rights, and also his participation in the previous issue. But in all 
the circumstances I think it was reasonable for AJ Bell to not assume that all criteria were 
the same for this issue and, as such, given the information it had received, to seek the 
confirmation of eligibility.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman