DRN-3369027
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Amazon Card irresponsibly allowed him to open 
a credit card account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr B says the Amazon Card account was unaffordable and he shouldnt have been allowed 
to open the account. He says the credit limit was also increased which caused financial 
difficulties as well as stress. Mr B would like interest and charges refunded and interest paid 
on that amount.
NewDay says the account was opened in November 2019 and Mr B declared an income of 
£15,000 a year with access to other household income of £667 a month. It says it calculated 
Mr Bs other debt which was minimal at £100 and looked at his credit file which showed no 
adverse information. NewDay says Mr B managed his account appropriately and in July 
2020 increased the credit limit from £1,000 to £1,500. It says Mr B told it about financial 
difficulties in 2021 some time after the credit limit increase and account opening.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought appropriate checks were carried out on the application and credit limit increase. The 
investigator thought Mr Bs existing debt was low and there were no signs of unaffordability 
at the relevant times. And that Mr B made all required payments in excess of the minimum 
amount.
Mr B doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
loan or credit application. Those checks will vary depending on the type and amount of any 
loan or credit. This was an application for a credit facility rather than for example a mortgage 
and so I wouldnt have expected NewDays checks to have been as detailed as for that type 
of lending. But of course, checks still need to be carried out.
I can see from NewDays records Mr B applied for the account in November 2019 and 
declared an income of £15,000 with access to additional household income of £667 a month. 
I can see NewDay checked Mr Bs credit file which revealed no adverse information and 
calculated his existing debt at £100. So, Im satisfied that NewDay did carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks on Mr Bs application and that there was no information that it saw 
or ought to have seen that would have resulted in it concluding the lending was 
irresponsible. Im satisfied that NewDay approved what I think was a modest credit limit of 
£1,000 and the account ought to have been affordable for Mr B based on the evidence I 
have seen.
I can see that Mr B managed his account appropriately by making required payments often 
in excess of the minimum amount and that he didnt use the existing credit limit in full. I can 
see that before the credit limit increase in July 2020 that he had not used half of the existing 
limit which I think provides additional evidence that the original lending decision was 
affordable.
I dont think NewDay acted irresponsibly by increasing the credit limit and was reasonably 
entitled to consider at that stage Mr Bs account management which didnt reveal any 
concerns. I cant see that Mr B used that new credit limit in any event. 
Im satisfied that it was in 2021 that Mr B experienced financial difficulties. I think it likely on 
balance those difficulties may have been caused by other matters rather than the decision to 
approve this credit card account. I say that as Mr B managed this account appropriately for a 
significant time period.
Overall, Im satisfied that NewDay did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on this 
application and that the decision to lend was not irresponsible. It follows that I cant fairly 
order NewDay refund Mr B any interest or charges as he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman