DRN-4134092
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr K holds with The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB). The 
complaint arises from an earlier complaint Mr K brought to us, which was determined by an 
ombudsman colleague. There are two aspects to this new complaint; these are:
that since March 2022, TMB has continued to contact Mr K excessively about his 
mortgage arrears; and
in a phone conversation in May 2021, TMBs call handler told Mr K the arrears would be 
removed.

What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr K and TMB. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a response to the complaint, a copy of which has been sent to all 
parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are published, and 
its important that I dont include any information that might result in Mr K being identified. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Im conscious that Mr K has specific health problems; I dont reveal the details here out of 
respect for his privacy, but Ive kept his circumstances in mind at all times when deciding 
what the outcome of his complaint should be.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
One aspect of those rules is that we dont generally look at the same issue(s) more than 
once. So to ensure theres no ambiguity, Im not revisiting anything that my fellow 
ombudsman has already dealt with in his final decision on the earlier complaint. If I mention 
any such issues, it will be for context only.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As summarised above, there are two components to Mr Ks complaint.
The level of contact a business has with a consumer who is in arrears will always be a 
sensitive area, especially where, as is the case here, the consumer has vulnerabilities. The 
lender has to tread a fine line between making sure it meets its regulatory obligations and 
not treating customers unfairly. Occasionally, those obligations collide; and I think thats what 
is happening here. 
On the one hand, a lender must inform borrowers in arrears about the state of their account, 
and check on a regular basis to see if the borrowers circumstances have changed, whether 
that be for the better or worse. On the other hand, lenders need to treat consumers fairly, 
and at all times be mindful of their vulnerabilities. Its a balancing act, and everyone will have 
their own subjective opinion on where the dividing line is between fair and unfair treatment. 
Ive no doubt Mr K finds his situation distressing, and I can understand why his vulnerabilities 
mean he might well interpret the correspondence from TMB as being threatening. But at the 
same time, Im satisfied the corresponded hes receiving is well-intentioned and phrased in a 
manner that the regulator would regard as reasonable. Mr K has my sympathies, but overall, 
I think that TMB is acting in a way that achieves the balancing act I referred to above
Im limited to what I can say regarding the second part of Mr Ks complaint. My ombudsman 
colleague has already made a finding in his decision on the earlier complaint that the arrears 
on Mr Ks mortgage account were, and continue to be, genuine. So it would be wrong of me 
to make a finding that contradicted that by saying TMB should have removed Mr Ks arrears 
in May 2021. All I can comment on is whether someone told him a phone call that this would 
happen.
TMB has no record (or recording) of a phone conversation with Mr K on 12 May 2021, the 
date he says the phone call happened. Thats not to say I dont think Mr K genuinely 
believes the conversation took place. Im entirely satisfied hes raised the complaint in good 
faith, based on his best recollection of events. The difficulty I have is that theres nothing to 
corroborate that recollection. I accept its possible someone told Mr K what he says he was 
told, but Im not persuaded it more likely than not happened the way Mr K recalls. Aside from 
anything else, it would contradict TMBs contemporaneous records and the letters it sent him 
at the time. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman