DRN-2459258
The complaint
Mrs W says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a Marks & 
Spencer charge card. Allianz Insurance Plc has taken responsibility for this complaint. So Ill 
just refer to Allianz in the rest of the decision to keep things simple.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1997. The policy was added to Mrs Ws 
charge card account when she completed a leaflet to apply for the card. It cost 66p for every 
£100 owed on the account. If Mrs W had successfully claimed on the policy for accident, 
sickness or unemployment, it would have paid out 15% of the account balance each month 
until Mrs W either went back to work or the balance was cleared. The policy also provided 
life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs W disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ws told us she was led to believe that the PPI was required and she didnt realise it 
was optional. Ive seen a copy of the application form that Mrs W completed for the 
charge card. It included a separate section about PPI. There was a brief description of 
the cover, then it said We strongly recommend you take cover by ticking the box. 
Mrs W ticked the box next to that, to indicate that she wished to take the cover.
Im satisfied that it was clear from the way the PPI was referred to on the form that it was 
optional. And I think Mrs W chose to take it, knowing that she didnt have to  although 
I can understand how she may no longer remember this, more than 20 years later.
Based on what we know about the way these policies were sold at the time, I think its 
unlikely that Allianz provided advice or any personal recommendation to Mrs W about the 
PPI. This means it didnt need to check if it was suitable for her. But it did have to give 
Mrs W clear enough information for her to decide whether the cover was right for her, 
knowing what other means shed have had of making her monthly store card repayments 
if shed been off sick, or if shed lost her job.
Its possible that the information Allianz gave Mrs W about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that she chose to take out the 
policy, so I think she was interested in this type of cover, even if shes understandably 
forgotten that now. Based on what Mrs Ws told us about her circumstances at the time, 
she wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
Ive borne in mind that Mrs Ws told us that shed have been entitled to sick pay from her 
employer. But if shed made a successful claim on the policy, it would potentially have 
paid out for longer than shed have received full pay for. And it would have paid the same 
benefit if shed made a successful unemployment claim. Whats more, the policy would 
have paid out in addition to any payments Mrs W received from her employer, allowing 
her to use those to meet other day-to-day living costs. And she wouldnt have had to use 
her savings to make her monthly card repayments.
I acknowledge that Mrs Ws told us her husband was working and that she could have 
relied on family for support. But circumstances can change, so thered have been no 
guarantee that theyd have been in a position to help should the need have arisen. 
So taking everything into account, I think the policy could have been useful to Mrs W, 
and I think it unlikely shed have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance, I think shed still have taken out the policy. This means I dont 
think Mrs Ws any worse off as a result of anything Allianz did wrong. So it doesnt need 
to do anything to put things right.
Ive taken account of all Mrs Ws comments, including what shes said about not having been 
told there was a cancellation period. But as she was paying for the PPI monthly, she could 
have cancelled the cover at any time if she decided she no longer wanted it. And if shed 
wanted to cancel the cover and wasnt sure how to go about it, I think its likely shed have 
contacted Allianz to ask. Ive seen nothing to suggest that she did so. So this doesnt change 
my view.
Ive seen that the lender has already offered Mrs W a refund for undisclosed commission 
that it got from the PPI sale, and I understand that has been paid. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman