DRN-1952475
 
The complaint
Mr D has complained about a loan he took from Evergreen Finance London Limited trading 
as Moneyboat. Mr D says Moneyboat lent to him irresponsibly.   
What happened
Mr D was given a loan of £600 by Moneyboat in December 2018. The loan was repayable in 
three instalments. I understand that Mr D has had difficulty in repaying the loan and that it 
remains open.
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Ds complaint. He didn't think Moneyboat had 
been wrong to provide Mr D with the loan.  Mr D didn't agree with the adjudicators 
assessment, and so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision about the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D could repay the 
loan sustainably. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as 
the loan amount, the repayment amounts and Mr Ds income and expenditure. But there was 
no set list of checks Moneyboat had to do.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But I've also considered if there were any other factors that 
might indicate that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish 
whether continued lending was sustainable for Mr D.
 Such factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given a loan (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what it means for Mr Ds complaint.
Moneyboat has told us it carried out some checks before lending to Mr D. It asked him for 
details of his income and normal monthly expenditure and gathered some information using 
a credit reference agency. Moneyboat has explained that it analyses the information given 
by borrowers about their income and expenditure to assess whether the loan is affordable.
From what Ive seen, I think the checks Moneyboat did before agreeing to the loan were 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Mr D has complained that he had many other debts at the time and that he couldnt afford to 
repay the loan. He thinks Moneyboat should have been aware of this from its checks. He 
also complains that theres no record of his account with Moneyboat appearing on his credit 
file. However, generally, the information a consumer might see, when they request a copy of 
their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a 
portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not 
be up to date. So, this may explain any differences between the information provided by the 
lenders credit check and the information Mr D says should be on the report. 
Ive seen a summary of the information gathered by Moneyboat at the time. Whilst the credit report that Moneyboat has provided does show some adverse information, I dont think there 
was anything which should have caused it any additional concerns about Mr Ds financial 
position when he applied for the loan. Or that should have led the lender to reasonably 
conclude that his loan application should be declined.
Given what Mr D had told the lender about his circumstances, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Moneyboat to ask Mr D for the amount of information that would be needed 
to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the loan. I think that it was 
reasonable for Moneyboat to make its lending decision based on the information Mr D had 
provided and what it found in proportionate checks.  I dont think greater checks were 
appropriate at the time. And I dont think Mr Ds lending with Moneyboat had reached the 
point where I think Moneyboat ought to have been independently verifying the information he 
was providing about his finances by, for example, asking to see copies of his bank 
statements. 
I appreciate that Mr D says his financial situation was much worse. But this doesnt appear 
to be something he shared with Moneyboat at that time, or something that proportionate 
checks would have uncovered. Mr D has also complained to Moneyboat that he was a 
vulnerable consumer. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that this was something that he 
disclosed to Moneyboat when he applied for the loan. So I dont think Moneyboat could 
reasonably have known that Mr D might have been a vulnerable consumer when it made its 
lending decision, as it does not appear to have been made aware of this possibility at the 
time. 
I am sorry that Mr D is struggling with financial problems, but I cant fairly conclude that 
Moneyboat did something wrong when it provided the loan to him.
Mr D has also complained that the interest charges on his loan were unfair and that he was 
given a short-term loan, rather than a payday loan - because this is how Moneyboat 
describes itself on its website. Moneyboat say that its loans are repayable in instalments of 
between 2 and 6 months and that Mr D chose to repay the loan over 3 instalments. I dont 
know what was discussed at the time. But I think its likely that Mr D was aware he was 
taking a high cost loan that was repayable over 3 instalments and which carried a high 
interest rate. I havent seen anything which makes me think that Moneyboat breached 
industry practice regarding interest charges when it agreed the lending or that it has treated 
him unfairly in some other way.
I understand the loan remains open. Moneyboat should try to agree an affordable repayment 
arrangement with Mr D in respect of the outstanding balance - bearing in mind the need to 
treat him with forbearance and due consideration in those discussions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as Moneyboat.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman