DRN-2646960
The complaint
Mr G complains that he asked Honeycomb Finance Limited for a final settlement figure so he
could pay off his loan early. It gave him an amount, and he paid this in full. But Honeycomb 
has since said Mr H still owes it money. Its given him three different amounts.
What happened
Mr G told us that he rang Honeycomb on 4 January 2020 to get a settlement figure for his
loan. He wanted to pay it off early.
Mr G had cancelled his monthly direct debit payment for just over £200 to Honeycomb,
before he made this call. The payment was due to be made on 3 January, but it hadnt been
paid. Honeycomb didnt realise this at the time.
Honeycomb gave Mr G a settlement amount. He paid. But then it sent him letters to say he
still had an outstanding debt. He received a number of letters asking for different amounts.
Mr G has shown us the following letters from Honeycomb 
4 January 2020  provides settlement figure of £7,018.47, shows arrears of £204.06,
outstanding arrears charges £15. Figure valid until 1 February.
7 January 2020  informs Mr G of arrears of £408.12 on loan.
30 January 2020  says that the settlement figure given on 4 January had assumed
all payments due before that would be paid. But the payment due on 3 January had
failed, because Mr G had cancelled his direct debit. So there was a shortfall of this
amount, £204.06.
16 March  an annual statement, detailing an account balance of £130.36.
14 April 2020  complaint response letter, says its Honeycombs fault that it didnt tell
him his monthly payment hadnt been made. And says Mr G still owes £204.06.
17 July 2020  informs Mr G of arrears of £133.56.
Honeycomb said when it gave the settlement figure , it hadnt realised that Mr Gs monthly
payment of just over £200, due the day before, hadnt been made. Honeycomb said Mr G
did owe this money, but it acknowledged that it should have taken this into account when
providing Mr G with the settlement figure. So it offered Mr G £25 in compensation.
Mr G wanted the rest of the debt written off and the account closed so that Honeycomb
would stop contacting him, and £500 in compensation. He then said that this was affecting
his credit score, and he wanted Honeycomb to remove the negative markers it had put on
his credit record.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said Mr G owed this money, and our service
wouldnt ask Honeycomb to write it off. He also didnt think Honeycomb had to change what
it had told credit reference agencies about this debt.
Mr G didnt think Honeycomb shouldve based its closing amount on assumed payments. He
felt Honeycomb had been grossly negligent. He said while this loan was reporting on his
credit file, the file would be negatively affected.
Mr G wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it came to me for a final
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I understand Mr Gs monthly payment failed because hed cancelled the direct debit. 
But Honeycomb has now accepted not just that it gave Mr G an incorrect settlement 
amount, but also that it shouldve realised his monthly payment hadnt been taken at 
the time.
This contrasts with what it said when it initially spoke to Mr G, which was that it didnt 
know about this missed payment until some days after it gave Mr G the settlement 
figure.
Honeycomb has sent Mr G a number of conflicting letters, asking for different 
amounts. It has now told us Mr G owes £137.35. This is different to the amount set 
out in its complaint response letter. It appears to be based on the sums in the March 
and July letters Mr G showed us, plus accrued interest. Its not entirely clear how 
Honeycomb got to this figure. But it is clear Honeycomb has continued to apply 
interest to the money it says Mr G owes.
I can understand Mr Gs reluctance to pay any of these amounts, having received so 
many conflicting letters in such a short period.
Its clear that Honeycomb made a mistake. I dont think its offer of £25 is enough to 
make up for whats gone wrong here. The amount of compensation I think would be 
appropriate in this case is much more like the amount of Mr Gs remaining debt. 
Because of that, I dont think Honeycomb should pay Mr G the £25 it has offered. 
Instead, I think that Honeycomb should, as compensation for its mistakes in this 
case, now record Mr Gs debt as paid in full.
Mr G also said he wanted Honeycomb to amend his credit file. But Honeycomb has 
told us its not placed any negative markers on his file as a result of this issue. It has 
left the loan on his credit file, but I think thats reasonable, given that it wasnt yet 
resolved and cleared.
I dont agree with Mr G that this loan must have negatively impacted his credit file, 
just because it was still showing on there. A loan which shows as up to date wont 
necessarily reduce a credit score, and it can in fact increase the score in some 
circumstances, as it shows borrowing is being well managed. So I cant just assume 
that Mr Gs score is worse because of this.
Mr G has chosen not to share his full credit file with our service. On the evidence I 
have, I cant say that its likely in this case that Mr Gs score has been adversely 
affected.For the avoidance of any doubt, I dont think Honeycomb has to pay Mr G 
compensation, in addition to clearing his debt. I think that clearing his loan stands in 
place of any compensation in this case. Although I know he paid all he was asked to 
at the time, Mr G still didnt pay everything he owed for this loan. And my resolution in 
this case wont require him to make any further payment. So I think the benefit Mr G 
receives from not needing to make any further payment on this loan provides a fair 
and reasonable amount of compensation in this case.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr G didnt reply. Honeycomb said it had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Honeycomb Finance Limited must record Mr Gs debt as paid in full.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman