DRN-2690570
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a 
feepaying Flex Plus packaged bank account, which he took out in 2017. He says that he was 
advised by a member of staff that this account had worldwide travel insurance and would 
therefore be suitable for him.
Mr B says the account was mis-sold because Nationwide failed to make it clear that the 
travel insurance provided by the account only covered trips that were less than 31 days in 
length. Mr B says he discovered that he was not covered in 2020.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Bs complaint and she concluded that Nationwide had 
not mis-sold the account. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators findings and so the complaint 
has been referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
Having looked at everything that Mr B and Nationwide have provided, I am unable to 
conclude that the account had been mis-sold, or that Nationwide has acted unreasonably. I 
will explain why.
Mr B has said he was mis-advised by a member of staff of Nationwide that the Flex Plus 
account would be suitable for him and the trips that he made. I cant say what was discussed 
and it is possible that this member of staff may have implied that Mr Bs trips would be 
covered. But given that the sale of the account did not happen at this point I would not 
consider this a formal recommendation that the Flex Plus account would meet all of Mr Bs 
needs. That said, I am open to the possibility that prior to the sale, he may have been under 
the impression that the cover offered by the account was more comprehensive than it turned 
out to be.
I can see that when Mr B took out the account in 2017, he did so by applying for it online. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that the account was sold to him on a non-advised basis. This 
means that Nationwide was not required to check if the packaged account, or any of the 
individual benefits it included, were right for Mr B. However, Nationwide was required to 
present Mr B with the important information about the account and associated benefits, so 
that he could decide for himself whether it was right for him. 
Nationwide says that its online application process wouldve required Mr B to check: that he 
was eligible for the account and packaged benefits; the monthly cost of the account; the 
main benefits and exclusions of the insurance products; as well as explain Mr Bs 
cancellation rights. And based on what both parties have said and provided, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest this didnt happen. I can see that at this point the 31-day trip limitation 
wouldve been highlighted to Mr B. The application form also prompted Mr B to check a box 
to confirm that he had read a summary of the limitations of the account. So even if Mr B was 
not specifically told of the trip limits prior to this online application this was rectified during the 
sales process. 
I understand that after Mr B had agreed to the account, he was then provided with a 
welcome pack. This included the terms and conditions that applied to the packaged benefits 
 including the travel insurance limitations. I understand this was provided so Mr B was able 
to check the level of cover should he need to rely on it during the time he held the Flex Plus 
Account. And it also contained contact details should he need to call Nationwide or the 
insurer. 
I note Mr Bs comments that he trusted what he was initially told, but I cant hold Nationwide 
responsible for not clarifying the full details and limitations of the benefits that an account 
came with if this was rectified prior to the sale. Ultimately, I cant hold Nationwide 
responsible for Mr B confirming he had read a summary of the benefits when he chose not to 
do so, especially if Nationwide had only given him general, rather than detailed, information 
about the Flex Plus travel insurance when he was in branch.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, Im satisfied that Nationwide did what it needed 
to do in terms of providing Mr B with the important information about the travel insurance 
when Mr B applied for the Flex Plus account. 
Therefore, taking everything into account, I cant say that Nationwide mis-sold the account or 
acted unreasonably in this matter. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman