DRN-3686485
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled his business bank account. 
Mr S wants Barclays to pay more compensation than it has offered so far and he wants it to 
apologise for the stress caused to him.
What happened
Mr S had a Barclays business account. In March 2021, Barclays wrote to Mr S asking him to 
complete some Know Your Customer (KYC) forms that it had sent out. 
Mr S contacted Barclays in July 2021 after he received a reminder letter. He says Barclays 
agreed to send out a replacement KYC form and said it would place the account closure 
process on hold. However, Barclays went on to close Mr Ss account in October 2021 
despite him returning the forms.
Once Barclays closed Mr Ss account, it sent a cheque for the closing balance. After there 
were some delays in Mr S receiving the cheque, Barclays offered him £200 compensation. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint be upheld. She thought Barclays 
offer of compensation was reasonable.
Mr S is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He says that Barclays told him on 
the phone that it had been trying to get hold of him since January 2021 but that it didnt send 
the first KYC letter until March 2021. Mr S thinks that if the KYC forms are so important 
Barclays should have also sent them by email.
Mr S says that as soon as he received the KYC forms in October 2021, he completed and 
returned them. Mr S points out that after banking with Barclays for more than 20 years, it 
closed his account without even calling. 
Mr S is unhappy with the level of service he received after his account was closed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties that Mr S has faced. From Barclays records, it appears 
that it first wrote to him on 31 March 2021 asking him to confirm some of his business 
details. As Barclays didnt receive a reply, it wrote again on 7 May 2021. Barclays letter said 
that if it didnt hear back from Mr S, it might eventually have to close his account.
Barclays has a record of Mr S making contact in late July 2021 to say hed received a 
reminder letter but that it didnt include the KYC form. Barclays says it resent the letter and 
then sent another one in early October 2021. 
I appreciate that Mr S recalls Barclays telling him that it would put the account closure on 
hold but this isnt reflected in the file notes. Although I understand it was frustrating when 
Barclays closed Mr Ss account, Im satisfied that the letters it wrote explained that the 
account might be closed if not returned. As Barclays didnt have a record of receiving the 
completed forms in time, I cant find that it made a mistake when it closed Mr Ss account on 
19 October 2021.
After Mr Ss account was closed, I agree that Barclays delayed sending him the closing 
balance by cheque. This was understandably concerning and frustrating for Mr S. But I think 
Barclays apology and offer to pay £200 compensation, fairly reflects the impact any mistakes 
may have had on him. 
Although Mr S doesnt recall receiving Barclays final response letter in December 2021, Im 
satisfied that Barclays sent it to the business address it held for him. If Mr S still needs to see 
a copy of the letter, he should let us know when responding to my decision. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to settle Mr Ss 
complaint that I think is fair. So, my decision is that if it hasnt already done so, Barclays 
Bank UK PLC should pay Mr S £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman