DRN-4463512
The complaint
Ms B complains that Nationwide Building Society irresponsibly gave her two fixed sum loan 
agreements she couldnt afford.
Ms B is represented in this complaint, but for ease Ill refer only to Ms B throughout.
What happened
In September 2021, Ms B applied for a fixed sum loan with Nationwide. The loan was for 
£10,000 and Ms B was required to pay 60 monthly repayments of £198.77. She then applied 
for another loan with Nationwide around eight weeks later, in November 2021. The second 
loan was for an additional £10,000 which was repayable in 60 monthly instalments of 
£230.25.
Ms B complained to Nationwide to say that she could never afford to repay the loans. She 
said her income was made up of benefits and that this was unlikely to change given her 
circumstances. She said that Nationwide should have questioned the purpose of the first 
loan as it was recorded as being for home improvements. However, as she lived in council 
rented accommodation, she had no reason to take out a home improvement loan. She said 
that no checks were done on how she spent the money under the first loan and that 
insufficient affordability checks were completed for both loans. She said that she was 
vulnerable and that Nationwide ought to take that into consideration when putting things 
right.
Nationwide didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said that it had completed appropriate checks 
and that these didnt show any affordability concerns.
I sent Ms B and Nationwide my provisional decision on 19 October 2023. I explained why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld in part. I said:
Before lending to Ms B, Nationwide needed to carry out proportionate affordability 
checks to ensure she could afford to repay what was borrowed. What is considered 
proportionate will vary with each lending decision as there is no set list of checks that 
were required to be completed every time. In deciding what would be proportionate 
Nationwide had to take into account things such as (but not limited to): the amount 
borrowed, the size of the monthly repayment, the purpose of the loan, the cost, the 
term and the consumers circumstances.
Ms B applied for both loans over the phone. Nationwide therefore had an opportunity 
to gain more insight and information from Ms B than if she had applied online. As part 
of each application, it asked Ms B what her income was, some basic questions about 
her expenditure (such as the amount of rent she paid) and it completed a credit 
check.
For the first loan, Ms B declared her monthly income to be around £1,700 and her 
monthly rental commitment to be around £380. The credit check revealed that Ms B 
had no existing credit commitments. Nationwide used statistical data to estimate her 
likely essential living costs and information from credit reference agencies to check 
the income figure Ms B had declared. After doing all of this it concluded that the loan 
repayments were likely to be affordable.
I dont think there was anything within these checks that ought to have concerned 
Nationwide about the affordability or sustainability of the loan. I think given what it 
had established about Ms Bs circumstances I think it completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks. From what it could see about Ms Bs 
circumstances, the loan appeared to be affordable. This is because she had a 
reasonable regular income (which a credit check demonstrated to be broadly 
accurate), no existing credit commitments and her rent wasnt a significant when 
compared to that income. In short, there were no signs of possible financial stress.
I note Ms B has said that Nationwide ought to have questioned the purpose of the 
loan. Ms B had declared the loan was for home improvements, but she was in rented 
council accommodation. Having listened to the call where Ms B applied for the loan, 
Im satisfied this wouldnt have caused Nationwide any concern. This is because 
Ms B explains that she needed the loan to buy new furniture, furnishings and 
electrical appliances for her home. It appears home improvements was the nearest 
match that the Nationwide representative could select from a pre-determined list to 
denote the loan purpose. I dont think there was anything in what Ms B had said 
during the call that ought to have reasonably caused Nationwide to question Ms Bs 
need for the loan.
There was someone else on the call with Ms B who appeared to be a friend assisting 
her with her loan application. I dont think there was anything within the call or their 
interactions that ought to have concerned Nationwide that Ms B might have been 
coerced into taking out the loan.
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think Nationwide made an unfair lending 
decision when it granted Ms B the first loan. However, I think it did act unfairly when it 
gave her the second loan.
Ive listened to the telephone call when Ms B applied for the second loan. I think 
there were a number of things within this call (in conjunction with what it already 
knew about her circumstances) that ought to have caused Nationwide concerns 
about lending more money. Firstly, I think it ought to have been clear Ms B was 
vulnerable and secondly, that there was a high possibility the loan repayments were 
likely to be unaffordable and/or unsustainable for her.
During the call Ms B had disclosed to Nationwide that she had a carer and that the 
carer had written important information down for her. She also told the representative 
that she had lost all of her money because she had been scammed by an ex-partner. 
She said this resulted in her losing her home and forced her into council rental 
accommodation. I think this ought to have put Nationwide on notice that Ms B was 
likely to be vulnerable.
It was apparent from the beginning of the call that Ms B had no idea how long ago 
she had entered into the previous loan agreement with Nationwide, despite that 
application having happened only around eight weeks earlier. This in itself wasnt 
necessarily a cause for concern. However, when taken in the context of everything 
else that happened during that call and what Ms B disclosed, Nationwide arguably 
ought to have been concerned about lending her further money.
Ms B was evidently confused about the impact further borrowing was likely to have on her financial circumstances. She was surprised to learn that borrowing an 
additional £10,000 on top of the £10,000 she already had was going to cost her 
more. She appeared to be under the impression it would cost her less overall.
I accept that the representative from Nationwide spent a considerable period of time 
explaining the correct position to her, including the various options such as having 
two loans running concurrently or having one large, consolidated loan and their 
associated costs. It does appear Ms B understood the overall costs after this 
explanation. However, she was clearly concerned about whether she could afford it.
Towards the beginning of the call the representative asked her how much she had 
budgeted for the new loan. Ms B said: I havent thought about that. When the 
representative gave her the monthly repayment figures Ms B indicated I could just 
do that when referring to being able to afford repayments towards the cheaper 
(when considering the monthly repayment) of the two options. Ms Bs tone and from 
everything shed said before ought to have concerned Nationwide that a new loan 
might not be affordable or sustainable for her. Or at the very least, it needed to do 
more than rely on statistical estimates of her expenditure to satisfy itself that it would 
be affordable.
After this, it became clear that Ms B hadnt actually considered how much money she 
needed to borrow. She had incorrectly assumed that borrowing more money 
automatically resulted in a cheaper loan and said this to the representative. The 
representative asked whether shed researched how much she needed to borrow for 
the various purchases Ms B had said she needed to make. Ms B said she hadnt.
The representative then suggested it might be better for Ms B to do that first before 
committing to such a large loan. At this point Ms B began to become more insistent 
that she just wanted to go ahead with the new £10,000 loan.
Ive also considered that throughout the call Ms B was unclear about what exactly the 
loan would be used for. She said that she needed it for a car, a plot of land at a 
graveyard and electrical bits and pieces and DIY. Given it was clear Ms B had given 
no consideration at all as to how much a car and the plot of land or the other 
electrical items would actually cost her to purchase, it ought to have caused 
Nationwide to question the true purpose of this loan, especially when she had very 
recently taken out a similar loan, also for miscellaneous purchases.
It is arguable whether Nationwide should have proceeded with the application at all, 
given how the conversation went. However, at the very least, I think it would have 
been reasonable and proportionate for Nationwide to have completed a much more 
detailed affordability assessment before lending the second loan. This ought to have 
included verifying Ms Bs income and expenditure.
I cant be certain what evidence and information Nationwide would have seen had it 
carried out proportionate affordability checks. In the absence of anything Nationwide 
did, Ive relied on copies of Ms Bs bank statements from around the time of the 
application. I think these give a good indication of what Nationwide would likely have 
discovered about her financial circumstances.
Ms Bs income was made up of benefits, around a third of which were disability 
benefit. In total, she received around £1,700 per month. Her rent was around £380 
per month, she was already paying around £200 per month to Nationwide for the first 
loan, and around £230 per month for other essential bills. This left her with around 
£890 for her essential living costs. Ms B has provided an income and expenditure analysis which demonstrates that she 
had insufficient funds to be able to afford the repayments. I cant however see a 
number of those costs on her bank statements, or for the amounts that have been 
listed. It appears, when taking into account her essential living costs (that I can see 
from her statements) and income that the second loan might have been affordable.
However, its also clear from Ms Bs bank statements (as well as medical reports 
shes provided us with) that she had a compulsive spending problem. Ms B had told 
Nationwide that the first loan was needed to buy furniture and expensive appliances 
for her home. I can see from Ms Bs bank statements that this is not what she used 
the loan proceeds for. 
She made a significant number of low to medium value purchases with television 
shopping companies over a very short period of time. I think it would have been clear 
to Nationwide (had it done appropriate affordability checks), that Ms B had not used 
the money for the purpose shed stated, that she had a compulsive spending problem 
and that giving her further credit was likely to cause her unnecessary financial 
difficulty. This coupled with the other concerns Ive noted earlier in the decision that 
became apparent during the application call means that I dont think Nationwide 
made a fair lending decision with the second loan.
Ms B responded to say that she had no new information to provide other than an updated 
income and expenditure assessment. She said that the second loan should not have been 
given to her as it was clearly unaffordable. She didnt agree with my conclusion that the 
second loan appeared affordable. 
Nationwide disagreed with my provisional decision. It provided a comprehensive response. 
In summary, it said:
During the application process for the second loan, Nationwide did carry out an 
income and expenditure statement with Ms B and based on the information she 
provided, the loan was affordable. 
The conclusion in the provisional decision isnt within the spirit of the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC). This is because Ive suggested that Nationwide 
needed to step far away from the requirements of the regulatory rules and guidance 
in place. It said that as a responsible lender, it needed to balance customer service 
and keep lending available without putting undue hurdles for applicants to obtain 
credit. Examining, in detail, someones bank statements without due reason would do 
this.
Given the number of loan applications Nationwide receives it wouldnt be possible to 
manually check each application, nor was there any plausible reason to do so for 
Ms Bs application. Even if Nationwide had done manual checks for Ms B and 
reviewed her Nationwide current account, there was no compulsive spending 
apparent on her statements nor did she disclose any issues with compulsive 
spending during the application call. Unless a customers spending was untenable, it 
wouldnt decline a loan application. 
It calculated that Ms B would have over £230 in disposable income each month after 
the second loan was taken out and it considers this demonstrates it lent responsibly. 
Its calculations of Ms Bs expenditure included estimates (based on statistical data) 
of her likely living costs and her council tax. Ms B provided the cost of her rent during 
the call. It took her existing credit commitments into account from her credit file. It said its not unusual for someone to ask for further lending soon after an initial loan 
and there are a number of plausible reasons why that might be necessary.
It didnt agree with my conclusions that Ms B was unclear about what she wanted to 
borrow money for. It said that by the end of the call, Ms B appeared to understand 
the costs involved and she was happy to proceed on that basis. Nationwide therefore 
considers it followed the correct and fair process by continuing with the loan 
application. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome I reached in my provisional decision and for 
broadly the same reasons. However, Ill address the additional points raised by both Ms B 
and Nationwide and explain why these dont change my view on what a fair outcome should 
be. 
Both parties appear to have accepted what I said concerning the first loan. So, Ive seen no 
reason to make any further comment except to confirm Im satisfied Nationwide acted fairly 
when it approved that loan for Ms B. 
Nationwide says that what Ive suggested they should have done in relation to the second 
loan goes far beyond the expectations in CONC. I disagree, and it concerns me that 
Nationwide thinks thats the case. For clarity, I havent suggested that Nationwide were 
required in every lending decision to complete manual checks on every customer. Only that 
I think in the specific circumstances of Ms Bs second loan it should have. I remind 
Nationwide that I didnt suggest this was necessary for the first loan, so Im surprised it 
thinks Ive suggested otherwise.
While I agree that Nationwide werent required to always complete manual checks on 
lending applications, that doesnt mean it would never be appropriate or reasonable to do so. 
CONC 5.2A.17R(2) sets out that Nationwide must take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure. In this case, Nationwide asked Ms B what she paid towards rent, used a credit 
check to determine her credit commitments and then estimated her other non-discretionary 
expenditure using statistical data. 
CONC 5.2A19G(1) provides a guidance note to estimating non-discretionary expenditure. It 
sets out that Nationwide may use statistical data to estimate non-discretionary expenditure 
unless it knows or has reasonable grounds to suspect that using statistical data is unlikely to 
be representative of the applicants circumstances. 
Ive set out in detail in my provisional decision why during the application call for the second 
loan I think Nationwide ought to have been on notice that Ms B was likely to be vulnerable. 
She also alluded to the possibility that the second loan was likely to be a stretch for her from 
an affordability perspective. All of this ought to have highlighted to Nationwide that Ms Bs 
circumstances were unlikely to be representative of the average customer. Therefore, relying 
on statistical averages to estimate her non-discretionary expenditure was inappropriate. This 
is particularly the case where during the call she initially disclosed she hadnt given any 
consideration to what she could afford to repay and later, that she could just afford it. This 
went against what Nationwides statistical data estimated and ought to have caused it to 
carry out more detailed enquiries about her financial circumstances before lending. As I said in my provisional decision, arguably Nationwide shouldnt have proceeded with the 
second loan at all given the number of concerning disclosures Ms B made during the 
application call. But giving Nationwide the benefit of doubt, at the very least it would have 
been proportionate and reasonable for it to have carried out more detailed affordability 
checks. Which, in this case I think ought to have included a thorough review of her actual 
expenditure, rather than estimating it. As Ive set out above, and contrary to what Nationwide 
has sought to argue, CONC envisages that this level of checking might be appropriate in 
certain circumstances. I think those circumstances apply here for the reasons Ive previously 
given. 
Nationwide says that Ms Bs Nationwide current account had no compulsive spending 
activity. I agree. But there was barely any activity at all on that account at the relevant time. 
The proceeds from loan one were paid into it and then over time transferred out into another 
account. Ms Bs income nor any of her regular expenditure was visible on the Nationwide 
statements. So, it would have been reasonable and proportionate for Nationwide to have 
verified this information using the bank statements from the account where this activity was 
happening. 
Having reviewed those statements, I think it would have been clear to Nationwide that Ms B 
was compulsively spending. As an example, in one week in October (a few weeks before the 
second loan was applied for) Ms B made almost 50 separate transactions to television 
shopping companies spending in excess of £1,500. This was all funded by the first 
Nationwide loan. A similar pattern of spending is apparent from when the loan proceeds first 
credited her account to just before the second loan was applied for. The second application 
coincided with when she had spent all the loan proceeds from the first loan. I think this 
demonstrated that Ms Bs spending was unsustainable and she was unlikely to be using the 
loan proceeds for the purposes she had said in the application call. Granting her further 
credit was likely to cause her financial harm. I therefore think Nationwide acted unfairly when 
it granted the second loan. 
Ms B says that the second loan was unaffordable for her even if the compulsive spending 
wasnt taken into account. Shes provided an income and expenditure statement to 
demonstrate this. However, even if I agree the second loan was unaffordable without the 
compulsive spending, this wouldnt change the overall outcome Ive reached. This is 
because Ive already found that Nationwide shouldnt have granted the second loan. I think 
the redress I set out in my provisional decision is a fair way to put things right irrespective of 
the reason Nationwide shouldnt have lent to Ms B. As Ms B has spent the money she 
borrowed, I consider it fair and reasonable that she pays that back. Her income and 
expenditure assessment demonstrates that she has some funds each month from which she 
can do that (although I accept these may not be enough to cover the contractual amounts), 
so I dont consider it unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society 
to:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loan two.
As there will still be a capital balance outstanding, Nationwide should set up an 
affordable repayment plan for the remaining amount. Once Ms B has repaid all the 
capital under loan two, Nationwide should remove any adverse information it may 
have recorded in relation to that loan on her credit file. 
If Nationwide has sold the debt to a third party it should either buy back the debt to carry out these directions or ensure that the third party complies with them promptly on Nationwides 
behalf. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman