DRN-2504063
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Morses Club PLC (Morses Club) lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mrs S took five loans from Morses between June 2017 and December 2018. A summary of 
her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender, can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of Weekly 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMax Weekly 
Repayment
1 08/06/2017 31/07/2017 33 £300.00 £15.00
2 17/10/2017 09/02/2018 33 £300.00 £15.00
3 30/05/2018 10/09/2018 33 £590.00 £29.50
4 06/12/2018 sold 33 £500.00 £25.00
The most recent correspondence from Morses shows there is an outstanding balance on 
Mrs S last loan which was sold to a third party in October 2019.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs S complaint. The adjudicator thought Morsess 
checks were proportionate and the loan repayments appeared affordable. So, he didnt think 
Morses were wrong to approve Mrs S loans.
It seems Morses agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs S disagreed with the assessment and provided the following points to consider;
Mrs S had around eight defaults on her credit file when she applied for her loans;
Her credit file showed multiple missed payments and loans that were taken out in a 
short period of time; and
Mrs S was struggling, and she feels Morses took advantage of her.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mrs S could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Morses should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs S complaint. 
Mrs S loans were repayable in 33 weekly instalments. The amounts that she needed to 
repay each month were smaller than if shed taken a traditional payday loan. But she had to 
make those repayments over a longer timeframe. So, Ive considered the total amount that 
Mrs S needed to repay to Morses every month, and if she could sustain the repayments.
Morses carried out an income and expenditure check before approving each of 
Mrs S loans. It also completed a credit check when Mrs S applied for her first loan and 
income validation checks during Mrs S applications for loans 3 and 4. 
When Mrs S applied for her first loan, she declared she was employed with a weekly income 
of £335 and her expenditure amounted to £168 a week. After making the contractual 
repayment for the loan, this wouldve left Mrs S with a disposable weekly income of £152. 
It appears that Mrs S main complaint is about the information showing on her credit file. And 
that Morses shouldve seen that she had a number of defaulted accounts, missed 
repayments and loans with other lenders and it shouldnt have lent. 
As I have explained, Morses Club only completed a credit check at the time of Mrs S first 
loan application. It has provided the results of her credit check with a Credit Reference 
Agency (CRA). This shows Mrs S had no County Court Judgements and was not in an 
insolvency arrangement. The results do show that Mrs S had two defaulted accounts, with 
one account defaulting within the six months before the loan was approved. 
But having considered all of the information Morses were presented with, I dont think it 
ought to have given it cause for concern. I say this because the type of lending Morses 
provided is usually for consumers who are unable to borrow from high street lenders. So, its 
not unusual for a lender to see adverse information on a customers credit file, including 
defaulted accounts. There was no other information which I think suggested Mrs S could not 
meet her contractual repayments or was struggling financially. For example, there wasnt a 
high number of defaults and there wasnt any evidence, based on what Morses were 
provided with, to suggest that Mrs S was a regular user of payday loans or other forms of 
high cost credit.  So, I dont think it was unreasonable that Morses decided to lend. 
Mrs S went on to apply for her second loan around two and a half months after repaying 
loan 1. She declared a slightly higher weekly income of £350 and that her weekly 
expenditure had decreased to £149 leaving her with a disposable income of around £201 
from which to meet the repayments of no more than £15 a week. So, I think the repayments 
would have appeared affordable to the lender, especially as Mrs S had shown no repayment 
problems when repaying her first loan.
Mrs M then took a further two loans over the course of the next year. Although the loan 
amounts increased slightly, I still think Morses carried out proportionate checks when these 
loans were approved. And, based on the checks that Morses carried out, it could see these 
loans were affordable to Mrs S. So, I dont think Morses made an error when it approved 
loans 3 and 4. 
Im sorry to hear that Mrs S was struggling financially and repaying these loans has proved
difficult. And I accept that Mrs S full financial circumstances may not have been reflected in
the information the lender gathered. Its clear to see from Mrs S full credit file which she 
provided that she had a lot of adverse information around the time she was applying for 
these loans. 
But Morses did complete a credit check at the time of loan 1, and it was provided with 
information suggesting she could sustain the loan repayments. There are a number of 
reasons why the credit checks may not have reflected Mrs S full circumstances, including 
which CRA lenders report to, and when the CRAs update their own reports. It might be that 
Mrs S full financial position may well have been apparent if further information, such as bank 
statements, had been obtained.
But I dont think it had reached the point either in the lending relationship, or based on what 
Morses knew about Mrs S, that meant it needed to verify the information 
she declared about her circumstances  such as checking her income and expenditure. 
Mrs S was approved these loans early on in the relationship with the lender, and there 
wasnt anything in the information Mrs S provided at the time of these loans which should 
have given the lender cause for concern. 
So, I dont think Morses Club were wrong to approve any of Mrs S loans.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman