DRN-2704430
The complaint
Miss H has complained that underwriters at Society of Lloyd's (Lloyd's) refused to pay a 
claim on her guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy.
Reference to Lloyd's incudes its agents.
What happened
Miss H reported her car stolen to the police and her comprehensive motor insurer. She later 
also claimed on her GAP policy for the difference between her motor insurers settlement for 
the loss of her car and the amount she bought it for.
The motor insurer settled Miss Hs claim for the loss of her car by paying its market value 
directly to the finance company who funded the cars purchase. But Lloyd's didn't settle 
Miss Hs claim at that point and conducted further investigations including having the cars 
key fobs examined by two separate industry experts. Having done so Lloyd's declined to pay 
Miss Hs claim. But it said if she could provide other evidence contradicting the analysis of 
the key fob data then it would review the claim.
Miss H brought her complaint about Lloyd's delays and its decision to refuse the claim to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it. She thought Lloyd's had acted fairly. Miss H didn't 
agree so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Miss H has made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything shes said carefully but in this decision I will focus on what I see as being the 
main issues at the heart of her complaint.
Lloyd's says that it aims to settle claims within 15 working days but in this instance it didn't 
manage that. Lloyd's said that was because it had concerns that the theft hadnt happened 
as Miss H had described. So it looked further into that and those investigations took some 
time to complete. And, where an insurer has reasonable concerns about the validity of a 
claim I think its fair for it to take steps to investigate the matter before making a decision on 
it. While I can understand that Miss H found the delays frustrating, I think it was reasonable 
for Lloyd's to investigate the matter as it did. It follows that I don't think it delayed deciding 
the claim. 
One of the main points of concern for Lloyd's was the circumstances surrounding the theft. 
Miss H said that, after spending the night at her mums, she awoke the next day to find the 
car had gone. A neighbours CCTV showed a man approaching the car, its lights flashing, 
and driving off. While not conclusive, the CCTV would seem to show that the thief used a 
key to take the car.
Miss H sent Lloyd's the two car keys she had. She said she had her main key with her at the 
time of the theft. And according to Miss Hs account, her spare key had been locked in a 
safe at her home address around 25 miles away. 
Lloyd's asked experts to interrogate the data from the two keys. Both experts came to the 
same conclusion. They said the main key had been used when Miss H had done some 
shopping and then driven to her mums. The spare key had been used the same evening at 
around the time of the theft, as shown on the neighbours CCTV. As I understand it, in order 
for the spare key to have been updated with data on the evening of the theft, it would have 
had to have been in the car whilst the car was being driven. That didn't match Miss Hs 
account that the spare key was locked in a safe at her home address when the car was 
taken. 
So in order for Miss H's account (that the spare key was at her home), to be accurate the 
thief would have needed to: get into Miss H's home; access her safe  which only she had 
the combination for; travel to her mums; take the car; go back to Miss H's home address, let 
themselves in and return the key to the safe. 
Miss H isn't in any way suggesting thats what happened. Instead she thinks the analysis of 
the key fob data is somehow flawed. Shes essentially questioned the accuracy of the expert 
reports. She said the appropriate experts should either be a police specialist or the 
manufacturer of the cars key fobs. Shes also shown us an email she sent to the key fob 
manufacturer, but it hasn't responded. But, I've seen no evidence, beyond Miss Hs 
comments, that the expert reports can't be relied upon. Both experts are members of an 
internationally recognised association for investigation of vehicle thefts. And both have the 
relevant experience and equipment for analysis of key fob data. Further, its notable that 
both experts came to identical conclusions independently. In other words their analysis of 
the key fob data gave them exactly the same conclusion; the spare key was in the car at the 
time of the theft. So I don't think the fact that other bodies, such as the police and the key 
manufacturer, could also give evidence means that the expert reports Lloyds had shouldn't 
be relied upon. 
It follows that, as the expert evidence significantly calls into question that the theft happened 
as Miss H said it did, I think it was reasonable for Lloyd's to decline her claim. Although I 
understand its said that if Miss H can provide alternative expert evidence it will consider 
reviewing its decision.
For completeness, I'm aware that Miss H took issue with some other points Lloyd's raised 
when it initially declined her claim. In particular it said that on the day in question her 
ex-partner and his dad had been in her house doing some work when that wasn't the case. I 
accept her evidence on that point. While I can see why she found that factual inaccuracy 
irritating that isn't what Lloyd's is relying on to decline her claim. And as I've said above, 
given the two expert findings of the analysis of the key fob data, I think Lloyd's had 
reasonable grounds to decline to pay her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman