DRN-4166302
The complaint
Miss C complains through a representative that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream 
(Lending Stream) gave her loans without carrying out adequate affordability checks. 
What happened
Miss C was advanced two loans and a summary of her borrowing can be found below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentslargest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £260.00 18/08/2021 07/02/2022 6 £75.15
2 £350.00 13/03/2022 12/04/2022 6 £113.14
Following Miss Cs complaint, Lending Stream wrote to her representative to explain why it 
wasnt going to uphold the complaint. It said it didnt uphold the complaint because it had 
carried out proportionate affordability checks before the loans were given. Unhappy with this 
response, Miss Cs representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The case was then considered by an adjudicator. The adjudicator didnt think Miss Cs 
complaint should be upheld because in her view, Lending Stream carried out checks which 
showed it that Miss C would be able to afford the loans. 
Miss Cs representative didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment and instead asked for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Miss C could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances of the application. Lending Streams checks couldve 
taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size 
of the repayments, and Miss Cs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss C. These factors 
include:
Miss C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss C. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Miss Cs complaint and I agree, as only two loans were granted in a relatively 
short space of time. 
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay the loans 
 not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss C was able 
to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Cs complaint.
As part of her applications, Miss C declared a monthly income of £2,000 for loan one and 
£1,890 for loan two. Lending Stream says it didnt feel it needed to make any adjustments to 
this income figure based on what it knew about Miss C.  
For loan one, Miss C also declared monthly outgoings of £375. This was all declared as 
normal expenses with £0 being attributed to credit commitments. However, 
Lending Stream says that as a result of independent checks, it increased its estimation of 
Miss Cs living costs by a further £368.60 and it also added an extra £661 for credit 
commitments per month. So, for loan one, it believed Miss Cs monthly outgoings amounted 
to £1,404.60. This left £594.40 per month in disposable income to be able to afford the loan 
repayment of £75.15. 
Lending Stream did the same sort of checks for loan two. On top of the £450 Miss C 
declared for her outgoings, it added an extra £800 to cover credit commitments and to adjust 
for Miss Cs living costs. 
Lending Stream believed, based on the information Miss C provided she had around £640 
per month in disposable income to afford her largest repayment. Therefore, it wouldve been 
reasonable for Lending Stream to believe both loans were affordable for Miss C. 
Before the loans were approved Lending Stream also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary spreadsheet of the results it received 
from the credit reference agency. I want to add that although Lending Stream carried out a 
credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific 
standard.
Lending Stream was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit 
reference agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there was anything contained 
within it that wouldve either prompted Lending Stream to have carried out further checks or 
possibly have declined Miss Cs applications.
Having looked at the credit results, in my view there wasnt anything that wouldve led 
Lending Stream to have carried out further checks. It knew Miss C had at least 13 active accounts and had accounted for them in its expenditure adjustments for Miss C. It could also 
see that Miss C hadnt defaulted on any accounts within the last three years. Overall, there 
wasnt any signs, from the credit check to indicate Miss C was in financial difficulties or to 
have prompted Lending Stream to carry out further checks.  
There also wasnt anything else, such as the way Miss C repaid her first loan that wouldve 
led Lending Stream to believe that it needed to do further checks or to have declined the 
applications for loan two. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship  and Miss C was only granted two loans, 
I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to have relied on the information she provided 
to it  which showed she had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments. There 
also wasnt anything to suggest that Miss C was having either current financial difficulties or 
to indicate the loan repayments would be unsustainable for her. 
Taking everything into account, I do no not uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman