DRN-1764333
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS). He says that there is an ongoing 
fault with the car.   
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider each case on its individual merits and while I have taken relevant regulations and 
guidelines into account, my decision is based on what I consider fair and reasonable given 
the unique circumstances of the complaint. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr H acquired a new car through a HPA with MBFS. Under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), MBFS can be held liable if 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. As the car Mr H acquired 
was new, it is reasonable that he would expect it to be free from faults, including any 
minor defects. It is also reasonable to expect the car to remain fault free for a 
reasonable period.
Mr H acquired the car on 30 September 2019, and it was returned to the dealer on 28 
November. The notes provided say this was due to the assist lighting not working 
correctly. A software update took place, but the issue re-occurred, and the car was 
returned on 11 December. At this time no fault was found. 
Under the CRA 2015, the consumer needs to show that there is a fault with the car. 
While I note the comments made by the dealer and MBFS about a fault not being 
confirmed, Mr H has explained the issue happens at night and has provided several 
photographs of the cars dashboard with the warning Adaptive Highbeam Assist Plus 
Camera view restricted See owners manual. The time recorded on the dashboard 
supports Mr Hs comments about when the issue occurs which could account for the 
issue not being identified when the car was returned in December. I note MBFS did 
offer to have an independent inspection of the car, but Mr H didnt think this 
worthwhile. While the inspection may have provided further information, I find that I 
have enough in order to make a decision on this complaint. 
MBFS has said that the issue is due to weather conditions and that the camera fitted 
to Mr Hs vehicle includes a heating element and its not possible to prevent 
condensation build up in all scenarios. The issue of condensation isnt mentioned in 
the section about the Adaptive Highbeam Assist in the cars manual. So, while I note 
the comments this isnt something that Mr H would have been reasonably aware of. 
Also, the manual does refer to weather conditions and impaired detection of 
obstacles in certain conditions such as fog, heavy rain or snow. However, Mr H has 
reported the warning coming on in all weather conditions. He has provided 
photographs taken at different times showing the same warning message. This 
suggests the problem is more likely than not an ongoing issue.
When a new car is supplied it is reasonable to expect it to be free from faults, even 
minor issues. It is also reasonable to expect it to be sufficiently durable such that 
there arent issues arising shortly after acquisition. In this case, while I note that the 
assist lighting is intended as an aid to driving, it is a feature Mr H had intended to 
make use of and I note his comments about it working without issues on another 
vehicle. Therefore, I find it reasonable to accept it was an important feature for Mr H 
and based on the information provided it hasnt worked as expected.
Mr H has provided several photographs of a warning on the cars dashboard and he 
has experienced the issue repeatedly within the first few months of ownership of a 
new vehicle. I do not find that this shows the car to be sufficiently durable and, on 
balance, I do not find that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
When a fault is present that was more likely than not present from the point of supply 
(as I consider has happened in this case) the CRA 2015 allows the supplier a right to 
repair. The dealer says that the software update was a speculative measure and 
MBFS says that as a fault hasnt been confirmed a repair hasnt been attempted and 
so Mr H doesnt have the right to reject. I do not find this a reasonable outcome in 
this case. Mr H has returned his car twice for the same issue. He has provided 
evidence of the issue and the dealer has carried out a software upgrade to try to 
resolve it. As the update didnt resolve the issue and then on further inspection the 
issue couldnt be replicated, I do not find that a further repair attempt is a reasonable 
remedy in this case. Instead, I think the fairest outcome is for Mr H to be allowed to 
reject the car.
When a car is rejected, we would expect the HPA to be cancelled with nothing further 
owing and any deposit payment made to be refunded along with interest. The sales 
invoice provided shows that Mr H contributed a cash payment towards the car and 
also an allowance from the part exchange of another vehicle. The part exchange 
allowance is recorded in the sales invoice as £8,411. The dealer has confirmed the 
cash payment of £4,250 was the combination of £2,500 paid by Mr H and a dealer 
contribution of £1,750. We would expect the amount paid by Mr H  that is the 
£2,500 plus the contribution from the part exchange of £8,411  to be refunded along 
with interest. 
Mr H has had use of the car, but he has said that due to the issue and when it 
occurs, he hasnt felt safe driving at night. I accept that this issue has had an impact 
on Mr Hs enjoyment of the car and agree with our investigators recommendation of 
a 5% refund of monthly payments from November 2019 until the date of settlement.
Mr H has noted that he has needed to pay tax on the car. It is reasonable that he 
would pay tax while he has the use of the car and so I wouldnt expect this to be 
refunded.
The issue has caused Mr H distress and inconvenience. He has had to return the car 
on two occasions and has been driving it with an ongoing issue. Given this I find that 
£200 compensation is reasonable.For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In order to resolve Mr Hs complaint, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should 
allow Mr H to reject the car. It should:
collect the car at no cost to Mr H;
cancel Mr Hs HPA with nothing further owing from the date of settlement;
refund the deposit Mr H paid (including the contribution from the part exchange), plus 
8% simple interest from the date the payment was made until the date of settlement;
pay Mr H £200 compensation for the trouble and upset he has been caused;
refund 5% of the monthly instalments paid from November 2019 until the car is 
returned. This should include 8% simple interest from the date each payment was 
made until the date of settlement; and
remove any adverse information regarding the finance agreement from Mr Hs credit 
file
If Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr Hs 
complaint, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should take the actions set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman