DRN-3706931
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc failed to protect her account and provided poor 
customer service.
What happened
Mrs M was subject to an account takeover on her Sainsburys credit card account. The 
fraudster was able to obtain enough detail about her to pass security on her account and 
change contact details (phone number and email address) and make some transactions.
Mrs M received a text message about the changes to her account from Sainsburys as part 
of their security procedures. Mrs M contacted Sainsburys advising them that she hadnt 
made any changes to her account. Blocks were applied to the account whilst the matter was 
looked into. Mrs M then raised a complaint with Sainsburys about their handling of her 
account.
Mrs M was concerned she hadnt heard anything from Sainsburys about the investigation of 
her complaint. It then became apparent that the fraudsters details were still registered on her 
account, resulting in an email about the complaint being sent to the fraudster. Sainsburys 
then changed the email address back to Mrs Ms genuine address.
Sainsburys refunded fraudulent payments made on her account and looked into Mrs Ms 
complaint about the issue. Mrs M asked for her details relating to the identity theft be 
registered with CIFAS  a national fraud prevention agency. Sainsburys lodged a protective 
registration with CIFAS on behalf of Mrs M.
A further email about the issue was again sent to the fraudsters email address and it then 
appears that another attempt to obtain information about Mrs Ms account was made to 
Sainsburys. Mrs M also received a suspicious call from someone impersonating 
Sainsburys. Mrs M didnt provide any details to this person as she wasnt convinced the 
caller was genuine. This was later confirmed by Sainsburys that it wasnt them that had 
called Mrs M.
It was arranged for a separate password be set up for when Mrs M called about her account 
to add another layer of security and on a couple of occasions Mrs M called Sainsburys the 
password wasnt requested. Mrs M explained that she was frustrated and worried by 
Sainsburys general lack of awareness about her situation and the ongoing security of her 
account and personal details.
Mrs M was also unhappy with how Sainsburys had handled her calls and delays when 
speaking with them. Sainsburys registered two complaints concerning the account take over 
and the new security arrangements. Sainsburys accepted theyd let Mrs M down with 
aspects of their handling of her account and made a £30 payment which Mrs M received. 
Sainsburys also offered a second £30 for the other complaint, although Mrs M has said she 
never agreed to this nor was it received. She was left unhappy with how Sainsburys had 
dealt with her complaint and brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an 
independent review.
Mrs Ms complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who issued two reports about 
the incident. He thought that Sainsburys had let Mrs M down and thought that overall that 
£200 was fair compensation for Sainsburys handling of the situation.
Sainsburys disagreed with the amount of compensation and asked for an Ombudsman to 
review the compensation award. Mrs M accepted the investigators recommendation.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, the events that happened to Mrs M are agreed by both parties. I appreciate 
theres a different interpretation between Sainsburys and Mrs M about certain aspects of the 
complaint, so Ill only refer to those which are required to explain why I think that the 
investigators recommendation was reasonable.
I think its worth noting that it was a fraudster who carried out the account takeover and 
attempted to defraud Mrs Ms card. Sainsburys intent was to prevent loss to her and protect 
her information from further exploitation  even though that wasnt entirely successful.
The fraudster was able to make use of Mrs Ms account, but as Sainsburys have refunded 
any disputed transactions, I dont need to consider this specific point any further.
The fraudster was able to answer the security questions used by Sainsburys to change the 
account details, although its not clear how they were able to obtain this information.  What is 
apparent is that they already had this information prior to contacting Sainsburys.
Part of the security process for amending phone numbers is that the old number receives a 
text about the change of numbers. This is to alert the user in cases such as this, which is 
what happened here. Mrs M was then able to tell Sainsburys about the changes to her 
account. 
It then appears that this is where the problems started because the fraudsters details were 
left on part of Sainsburys systems. An email about the complaint was sent to the fraudster, 
alerting them that the issue was being investigated by Sainsburys. It wasnt until about a 
week later that Mrs M was aware that the email had been sent to the fraudster.
Sainsburys updated the account details, blocked and re-issued the credit card and loaded 
the registration with CIFAS. A few days later, Sainsburys records show that a further email 
was again sent in error to the fraudster about the complaint.
Sainsburys then received a call from someone who failed security and a code was sent to 
the address held on file. About a week later, Mrs M received a scam call from someone 
impersonating Sainsburys. Fortunately, she was suspicious and didnt reveal any personal 
information before ending the call. 
Whilst Sainsburys cant be held liable for the account takeover, the way they handled Mrs 
Ms account after being made aware of the problem leaves a lot to be desired. The repeated 
mistakes of leaving the fraudsters email address on their system allowed updates about the 
complaint to be sent to them  effectively kept them informed about the state of the 
investigation. Sainsburys have said these were general updates and didnt contain any 
sensitive details, but the issue for me is that by repeatedly sending information to the fraudster they continued to provide them with information about the state of the complaint 
and this impacted Mrs M. She wasnt to know what was in those letters and I can see how 
worried and frustrated she was about the issue. 
Sainsburys not only provided an update to the fraudster on one occasion, they sent a 
second email after already realising they done it once, which I found to be most 
unsatisfactory for the level of service received by Mrs M. Its not unreasonable for Mrs M to 
have trust in Sainsburys that theyll keep her account safe after being made aware of the 
takeover, but Sainsburys didnt do that here.
Additional security arrangements
Once the additional password was set up, Mrs M made several calls to Sainsburys where 
the password wasnt requested which she felt was a breach of their agreement. Having 
looked at the procedures for the use of such a password, its only used at a specific point in 
the conversation if the caller tries to amend details about the account. I dont think that 
Sainsburys ignored their own policies here, but it doesnt appear that Mrs M was aware of 
how the password would be used as she was under the impression that it was to be asked 
for whenever she called. Sainsburys could have made that clearer to Mrs M.
CIFAS protective registration
I appreciate Mrs M thinks the CIFAS marker took too long to be registered, but having 
looked at the timeline, I dont think the delay was especially long. Im not aware of any losses 
attributed to the delay and overall Mrs M hasnt lost out financially because of this issue.
Customer service
Mrs M was also critical of the time taken for phone calls when she was trying to raise various 
issues with Sainsburys and whilst its frustrating to be left on the phone for long periods, I 
dont think the delays were specific to her, more related I think to how busy Sainsburys were 
at the time. Sainsburys did recognise that calls had been dropped and offered £30 which I 
think was a reasonable payment for that specific issue.
Putting things right
Overall, Ive considered the impact of Sainsburys handling on Mrs M. Sainsburys thought 
the recommendation for a payment of £200 was too high. I disagree, the actions by 
Sainsburys to repeatedly fail to accurately record details on her account leading to repeated 
information being provided to the fraudster, caused Mrs M to be constantly worried about the 
safety of her account. A further attempt to obtain more information from her happened after 
these emails were sent, leading me to conclude that Sainsburys continued failures likely 
enabled additional attempts to defraud Mrs M.
The ongoing stress and worry caused by Sainsburys handling of the issue warrants a 
payment for distress caused and the impact this had on Mrs M. I think that a payment of 
£200 overall (including any payments already made for both complaints) is both reasonable 
and fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Sainsbury's Bank Plc are instructed to 
settle this complaint as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman