DRN-4083801
The complaint
Mr T says Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr T took out a loan for £3,400 over 36 months on 10 May 2021. The monthly repayments 
were £150.95 and the total repayable was £5,434.20. Mr T fell behind with his repayments 
and the account defaulted in April 2022.
Mr T says 118 118 Moneys inflated interest rates and lack of credit checks contributed to his 
financial difficulties. It then defaulted and sold his account without notice and whilst he was 
on a payment plan. It did not respond to his requests for support in a timely way. This has all 
put undue strain on him and his family and impacted his mental health. He asks for 
substantial compensation; a review of 118 118s polices, email response times and overall 
support; and for the default on his credit file to be removed. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ts complaint in part. He said 118 118 Moneys checks were not 
proportionate and had it carried out better checks it ought to have realised the loan would 
not be affordable. But he was satisfied 118 118 Money had acted fairly when it defaulted the 
account as it was more than three months in arrears.
Mr T replied saying he was happy with this outcome. 118 118 Money did not respond so the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ts complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr T would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse
consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr T wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ts ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr T. In practice this
meant that the business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause
Mr T undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough 
for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to 
consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr T.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
118 118 Money has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some
information from Mr T. It asked for his employment status and monthly income, his 
residential status and housing costs, and his general living costs. It says it sense checked 
these against reasonable averages; it hasnt confirmed if it then made any adjustments. It 
carried out a full credit check to understand Mr Ts credit history and his existing credit 
commitments. Based on these checks 118 118 Money thought it was fair to lend.
I dont think 118 118 Moneys checks were proportionate given the initial results it saw from 
the information it gathered. I say this because its credit check showed Mr T had a high level 
of unsecured debt, with two of his cards overlimit, and so I think it should have carried out a 
fuller financial review before progressing. From what I can ascertain it understood his 
monthly income to be £2,655 and that his credit commitments were £1,186 each month. 
That was a high portion of his income and so was another reason 118 118 Money reviewed 
Mr Ts financial situation in more detail. 
In case such as these we look at bank statements from the months prior to the application. I 
am not saying 118 118 Money had to do this, but it is one way for me to recreate what better 
checks would most likely have shown the lender. The most important finding from doing this 
is that Mr Ts actual income was significantly lower that he declared at on average £1,937 a 
month. This means adding this loan to his existing credit commitments would have meant he 
needed to spend over 65% of his income each month on credit. This is not sustainable and 
is a strong indicator of likely future financial difficulties. For this reason I think 118 118 Money was wrong to lend to Mr T.
Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr T says 118 118 Money did not offer timely support when he notified it of his financial 
difficulties, and it unfairly defaulted his account without notice. I do not agree with these 
recollections based on the available evidence. 118 118 Money has evidenced that it agreed 
to a repayment plan. When Mr T wanted to extend this, it explained a revised income and 
expenditure form was needed but Mr T was unable to do this at the time. 
At times Mr T did need to wait for an email reply but that was for valid security reasons, and 
the lender had explained the phone would be a swifter way to discuss his position. Finally, I 
can see 118 118 Money sent Mr T the required notices prior to defaulting his account. And I 
am satisfied it defaulted it in line with the Information Commissioners Office guidelines as it 
was clear by March 2022 that Mr T was unlikely to be able to repay the debt. The terms and 
conditions of his account allow for the debt to be sold.
Mr T also says the interest rate he was charged was inflated. I accept the APR was
high, but Mr T had to actively engage in the application process, so I think its likely that he
was aware of what he was agreeing to pay. I havent seen anything which makes me think
that 118 118 Money treated Mr T unfairly or breached industry practice regarding interest
charges. But the interest and charges will be refunded anyway as it has been agreed the
loan shouldnt have been given.
Mr T also asked that 118 118 Moneys policies be reviewed but that it not something this 
service has the powers to do  that would be the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Our remit is to look at the merits of an individual complaint - to decide if the lender 
has made an error and if so, to set out what it must do to put things right. 
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr T to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and 118 118 Money needs to put things right.
118 118 Money has sold the debt so it should first try to buy it back. If that is not possible it 
must work with the new owner to achieve the same outcome as the steps set out below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr T
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ts loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then 118 118 Money should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ts loan account results in there being an outstanding capital balance 
118 118 Money must try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr T, treating 
him fairly and with forbearance if appropriate.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file in relation to the loan 
once any capital balance owing is repaid in full.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 Money
should give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ts complaint in part. Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, 
must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman