DRN-4030918
The complaint
Mr P complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS), to a type of personal pension arrangement.
Although trading at the time under another name, Bluesky Wealth Management Limited is 
now responsible for answering this complaint. Im aware Bluesky Wealth Management 
Limited is currently the subject of creditors voluntary liquidation, however my understanding 
is that a complaint can still be brought against the company. Mr P himself is represented by 
a third-party company.
To keep things consistent throughout this final decision, when referring to the business and 
complainant Ill refer mainly to Bluesky and Mr P respectively.
What happened
Mr P was a deferred member of an OPS, having previously worked for a company between 
1988 and 2005. In 2014, it seems he approached Bluesky for advice about his deferred 
scheme. 
As I refer to later on in this decision, only limited information seems to have been gathered 
by Bluesky about Mr Ps circumstances during the advice session(s) it had with him. The 
information known about him at the time was that:
He was 57 years old and married. He was unemployed and said to be in average 
health. No information was collected about Mrs Ps circumstances.
Mr P owned a house which had an estimated value of around £100,000. Around 
£45,000 was still owed on the mortgage with 10 years left to run.
It was recorded at the time that Mr P was in significant debt and was having 
difficulties maintaining the repayments towards this. He was said to be in urgent need 
of cash and wanted to know if he could use his pension to help address this.
Mr P had no other demonstrable assets and no savings.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ps DB pension was £209,385. The 
normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Bluesky set out its advice about Mr Ps pension in a suitability letter it issued on 18 
November 2014. It advised him to transfer out of his deferred DB scheme and invest the 
funds in a personal pension arrangement. Mr P accepted this advice and so transferred from 
his deferred DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement shortly after. 
Mr P first complained to Bluesky about its advice in late 2021 saying he shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer out of his DB scheme. In response, Bluesky denied it had done anything 
wrong. 
Mr P then referred his case to our Service. One of our investigators looked into it and said 
the complaint about an unsuitable pension transfer should be upheld. 
Bluesky hasnt been consistently responding to our Service, but weve checked it has 
received what weve been sending it, including the investigators view recommending we 
should uphold Mr Ps complaint. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Bluesky's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 (updated version) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme 
is that it is unsuitable. So, Bluesky should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ps best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to first consider whether the complaint is within our 
jurisdiction. Then Ive considered whether transferring away from the deferred OPS to a 
personal pension arrangement was in Mr Ps best interests. 
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Jurisdiction
I first considered whether Im able to consider Mr Ps complaint at all. And my decision is that 
I can.
We cant look at all the complaints referred to us. For example, the rules say that where a 
business objects, I cant consider a complaint made more than six years after the event 
complained of, or if later, made more than three years from the date the complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of having cause for complaint. A copy of 
Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R can be provided on request or can be found online in the 
DISP section of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. 
Mr P was given the pension advice by Bluesky in November 2014 and he then transferred 
his pension in December 2014. As Mr P first complained to Bluesky in December 2021, then 
he is outside the six-year part of the rule. 
I therefore need to also look at the second part of the rule, namely whether Mr P brought his 
complaint within three years of being aware, or of him ought to having been reasonably 
aware, of having any cause for complaint. 
Mr P told me that he only became aware that he may have cause to complain about this 
matter when he saw an advert about pension transfer complaints. So, in 2021 he contacted 
the claims management company on the advert which duly raised a complaint on his behalf, 
in December 2021.
Ive seen nothing else that shows me that Mr P knew or should have known he had a cause 
for complaint before this.  So, as my findings are that Mr P didnt know he had cause to 
complain about his 2014 pension transfer until 2021, this is a complaint I can look into. 
Ill therefore now address the merits of his complaint.
Financial viability of the transfer
Normally in a pension transfer scenario, Id expect to see the adviser demonstrating the 
financial viability of transferring to the consumer. Put another way, Id expect to see the 
adviser showing the consumer some comparisons between either leaving their pension 
where it is  or transferring away and into a personal pension arrangement. 
In most cases, such a comparison is usually set out in the suitability report, where the 
adviser makes his / her recommendations. And reference is usually made to a critical yield 
rate. The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be 
required on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same 
annuity income as the DB scheme. The critical yield is part of a range of different things 
which help show how likely it is that a personal pension fund could achieve the necessary 
investment growth for a transfer-out to become financially viable. 
In Mr Ps case, Bluesky didnt calculate a critical yield rate. In my experience this is unusual 
and its certainly unhelpful since Mr P would have probably been unable to make the 
comparisons Ive referred to above. Bluesky also didnt attempt to show Mr P any alternative 
meaningful comparisons between the financial value of his existing pension and a personal 
plan. 
In my view, these omissions were significant failures by Bluesky and they meant Mr P didnt 
have the information he needed to make an informed decision. This is because Mr P didnt 
have anything to show whether transferring out would be in his best interests from a financial 
perspective. So, if moving out to a personal plan was being recommended by Bluesky, Mr P 
couldnt see by how much his transferred funds would need to grow by his retirement date, 
to keep pace with the financial pension benefits hed be giving up. 
Ive noted the advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service 
was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably 
achievable when the advice was given in this case. In Mr Ps scenario, Ive noted all the 
likely growth assumptions upon him transferring out were relatively low.
I say this because the relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service 
for the period was 4.2% per year for 7 years to retirement (using a retirement age of 65). 
However, as a central theme in Blueskys advice was that Mr P wanted to take his retirement 
benefits, or certainly most of them, much sooner than the NRA, I also looked at the discount 
rate for an earlier retirement. And, for a retirement at the age of 58, Ive calculated that the 
discount rate was only 3.3%. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate 
at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 
2%. 
At the time, Bluesky said Mr Ps attitude to risk (ATR) was cautious and Ive noted that 
Bluesky itself recommended that Mr Ps transferred pension should be invested in a cautious 
money market fund. So, I think the likelihood here was that Mr Ps transferred funds wouldnt 
have been projected to grow that much outside of his DB scheme. I think the level of 
assumed growth, at best, would have been around 2% -to- 3.5%, given what Ive outlined 
above.
I think it was also obvious that Mr P knew very little about pensions or investments and he 
certainly had no capacity for loss. So, taking all these things into account, I think I can say 
that any realistic assumptions from that time would have been indicating a very cautious 
investment strategy and as a consequence of this Mr P would probably receive lower 
pension benefits overall as a result of transferring into a personal pension arrangement. Of 
course, I cant completely evidence this  but thats because of Blueskys failure to analyse 
or publish any critical yield figures in the first place. In any event, there would be little point in 
Mr P giving up the guarantees and benefits available to him through his existing scheme 
only to achieve a lower level of benefits in a personal pension in the longer term. Bluesky 
didnt demonstrate there were any financial benefits in transferring, and in my view, hed 
likely be worse off in the long term if he transferred. The regulator also assumes, that from a 
starting point, transferring is more likely to be unsuitable.
So, Bluesky effectively recommended the transfer away without properly comparing all these 
different options or showing that transferring was a better option for Mr P. These were 
substantial failures, but I do note nevertheless, that Blueskys recommendation to transfer 
away was probably based on a different rationale to the rather one-dimensional financial 
viability comparisons. 
As Ill go on to explain, Bluesky failed in these other areas too, because its analysis was 
similarly poor and it failed to comprehensively explain its rationale. But Ive given thought to 
all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
probably still providing overall lower financial benefits in the longer term.
Other potential reasons for the pension transfer advice 
Mr Ps financial situation
It seems Blueskys recommendation to transfer Mr Ps DB pension to a personal plan was 
focused only on him needing money there and then. Mr P was unemployed at the time and 
evidently not earning an income. The only meaningful transfer objective Bluesky recorded on 
any of the documentation Ive seen was that Mr P was encountering debt financial hardship 
and so wanted to transfer his pension, access the 25% as a tax-free lump sum, and invest 
the remained in a cautious fund supposedly for future use.Bluesky didnt define or analyse what this future use of the remaining funds might look like. 
In the event, we now know Mr P accessed the funds to spend on various items of 
discretionary spending, repairs and business ventures and so his transferred pension money 
is now completely gone.
Our investigator commented on the poor and restricted nature of Blueskys advice to Mr P, 
focussed as it was only on him transferring away. Bluesky offered no explanation of its 
failures and so like our investigator, Ive looked at the documentation we still have available 
when assessing this complaint.
Whilst Im satisfied that Mr P probably did have a genuine need for money at the time and 
did have debts, to what extent these necessitated an irrevocable pension transfer is unclear. 
I would have expected Bluesky to have conducted enquiries as to exactly how much the 
debt was and to look at all the alternatives that didnt include losing a guaranteed pension 
income for life. Bluesky failed to properly look into these matters.
Mr P had lost his job but I cant see any consideration was given to him returning to work in 
the short term and / or whether this was feasible. Also, if Mr Ps debts were at a stage where 
they were unmanageable, I would have expected the advisor to signpost Mr P to a debt 
counselling service (or similar) so he could understand all the options open to him. However, 
as Bluesky failed to record or address any of these important issues, its hard to gauge just 
how unreasonable its failures really were. But overall, it failed to record very obvious and 
relevant facts about Mr Ps financial situation and to me this strongly implies Bluesky failed in 
the most basic of its duties.
Bluesky also apparently failed to assess whether Mr P could have taken the pension benefits 
early from his existing DB scheme. In my experience, this would most likely have been 
possible and Bluesky could have easily confirmed what income he may have been entitled to 
from an early retirement and what tax-free lump sum he could have accessed. This may well 
have helped him to address his apparent debts. Theres absolutely no evidence it was 
suitable for Mr P to give up his guaranteed pension benefits when no assessment had taken 
place of what his income needs in retirement might be. In my view, the evidence is strong 
that no analysis of Mr Ps financial circumstances at the time was undertaken or that his 
income needs in retirement were assessed.
Even if I were to agree that Mr P was seeking advice specifically because he wanted to 
access some tax-free cash to get him out of a serious debt predicament, this objective 
certainly didnt remove the need for Bluesky to properly and professionally record all the 
relevant details and to provide suitable advice to Mr P.
In summary, Bluesky has provided no evidence from the time of the advice, or since, that the 
apparent debts were unmanageable to the degree that he needed to use his pension to 
address them.
Missing information
In almost all areas, Blueskys approach to the pension transfer advice Mr P was seeking was 
very poor. In my view, it solely focussed on what Mr P thought he wanted to do and despite 
being paid a significant sum for the regulated financial advice, Blueskys completion of much 
of the relevant documentation lacked any real depth. 
The fact-find for example was simply scored through in important places when information 
about Mr Ps financial circumstances ought to have been recorded and considered. Also, no 
details at all were recorded about Mrs Ps situation. So, from the start, the recommendation 
was focused solely on Mr P transferring away from his DB pension because he wanted to access an undisclosed amount of cash without any meaningful analysis of any of the 
alternatives.
Blueskys job here wasnt simply to transact what Mr P might have thought he wanted. As a 
regulated adviser, its job was to understand his circumstances and to provide professional 
advice which was in his best interests. However, Bluesky failed to record details of any other 
pension Mr P (or Mrs P) might have had and it made no reference to how he would support 
himself in retirement if he transferred this pension away to another type of scheme. These 
omissions were just a few examples of Blueskys very significant failings in this case. It also 
failed to recognise or consider the vulnerable financial position Mr P was clearly in. 
Flexibility
Having some of the flexibility a personal pension might add over a DB scheme is often cited 
as a rationale for transferring out of such schemes. This was not, however, used as a reason 
by Bluesky in this case. But Blueskys reasoning was extremely poor throughout. So for the 
avoidance of doubt, I cant see that Mr P required any added flexibility in retirement. As Ive 
said, Bluesky did a very poor job at identifying what Mr Ps retirement income requirements 
might be. But there were already limited degrees of flexibility still available to Mr P around 
retiring early which Bluesky failed to explore. 
Death benefits 
I cant see whether, or the extent to which, this subject was discussed. However, given the 
lack of detail and information provided by Bluesky in most other areas, I think its more likely 
this subject matter wasnt addressed. But a pension is primarily designed to provide income 
in retirement. I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were 
probably underplayed. Mr P was married and typically these types of pension have 
substantial spousal benefits. So the spouses pension most likely provided by the DB 
scheme would have been useful to Mrs P if Mr P predeceased her. I dont think Bluesky 
made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was most likely guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was.
Summary
In this decision Ive first explained why Mr Ps complaint is one we can look into.
 
As regards the merits of his complaint, Mr P was 57 years old and evidently in need of some 
money to help address outstanding debt. However, in my view, Bluesky failed to 
comprehensively assess and record Mr Ps overall financial situation. It also paid lip service 
to important documents and then focussed entirely on Mr P saying he needed some money 
to get by. It was on this sole basis that Bluesky recommended and facilitated the transfer 
out.
However, Ive seen nothing which shows Bluesky really attempted to understand Mr Bs best 
interests. Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr P was suitable and because of it, he 
faced a very uncertain retirement. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing 
income within his current scheme. By transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows 
there was very limited opportunity to improve on his existing benefits. And I dont think there 
were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. 
I think Bluesky ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme and 
probably help him in seeking a plan to manage his existing debts. However, Bluesky recorded so few details about Mr Ps circumstances that we cant know if or how this would 
have worked. 
Bluesky recorded nothing showing or explaining why retiring from the DB scheme when he 
was ready to do so, and then drawing a regular income, wasnt the much better option for Mr 
P. The regulators position with DB pensions was that the starting point should be that 
transferring out was unlikely to be in a clients best interests  and Bluesky produced 
absolutely nothing to show otherwise.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr P would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. But again, because Bluesky disclosed very 
few of the risks of transferring to Mr P and provided him with very little relevant information, it 
clearly failed in its duty. Ultimately it advised Mr P to transfer out, and I think Mr P relied on 
that advice. Im not persuaded that Mr P would have insisted on transferring out of the DB 
scheme, against Blueskys advice if it had done a better job. I say this because Mr P was an 
inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for almost all of his retirement provision 
at the time. So, if Bluesky had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the 
DB scheme, explaining alternatives and / or why transferring wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Bluesky should compensate Mr P for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Bluesky must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age (65), as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Bluesky should:
always calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts Blueskys offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Bluesky may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
I have also considered the impact on Mr P of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum of £200 should be paid to Mr P by Bluesky for what 
they referred to as the trouble and upset caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken into 
consideration Mr Ps age, circumstances and the substantial amount hed built up in his 
pension to that date; Mr P had built up his pension over a long time. Also, by retirement this 
DB pension would have been a very substantial part of his overall pension entitlement so I 
think the thought of losing any benefits would have negatively impacted Mr P. 
So, I agree that Bluesky should also pay Mr P £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the unsuitable advice which has likely had an impact on his retirement planning.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I direct Bluesky Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Bluesky Wealth Management Limited pays Mr P the balance. If Mr P accepts this decision, 
the money award becomes binding on Bluesky Wealth Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman