DRN-4015409
The complaint
Mr J complains that his pension plan provided by Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish 
Widows) reduced substantially in value during 2022 causing him to suffer a financial loss 
and considerable distress. 
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his 
assessment which he provided to both Mr J and Scottish Widows. I dont intend to repeat 
here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
Mr J noticed that the value of his Scottish Widows pension plan had reduced substantially 
during 2022. In May 2022, he decided to fully crystallise the value of his plan  he withdrew 
25% of the value as a tax-free lump sum of £32,478 and chose to invest the residual fund of 
about £97,435 in Scottish Widows Pathway 2  Buy Annuity drawdown investment solution 
because he was thinking of securing a lifetime annuity soon. The underlying fund for that 
investment solution was the Scottish Widows Pension Protector fund. Scottish Widows 
letter to Mr J confirming the transaction stated that the value of investments can go down as 
well as up. 
In June 2022, Mr J withdrew a taxable lump sum of £12,500 from his plan which left about 
£83,383 invested in the Pension Protector fund. Scottish Widows subsequently provided an 
enhanced lifetime annuity quote to Mr J but he decided not to proceed with securing it at that 
time.
The Pension Protector fund was invested mainly in corporate bonds and gilts which have 
historically been seen as low risk with low volatility. The annual rate of inflation in the UK 
increased significantly from late 2021 onwards and continued throughout 2022. The high 
rate of inflation negatively impacted the value of corporate bonds and gilts during this period 
because investment markets expected higher interest rates in the future to combat the 
effects of higher inflation  increasing interest rates erode the purchasing power of bonds 
and gilts that pay a fixed payment, reducing their capital value. As a result, the value of                
Mr Js plan reduced significantly during 2022 as investment markets continued to believe 
that there would be higher interest rates in the future.
On 20 June 2022, unhappy that the value of his plan continued to reduce, which was then 
valued at £78,222 after the withdrawal of the tax-free and taxable lump sums, Mr J switched 
from the Pathway 2  Buy Annuity drawdown investment solution into Scottish Widows 
cash fund. He did this because he wanted to avoid any further reduction in the value of his 
plan.
This complaint
Mr J was unhappy about the value of his plan reducing. He complained to Scottish Widows. 
He thought it shouldve advised him to switch into its cash fund sooner than he did on                       
20 June 2022  he said this wouldve limited the investment loss suffered. He also thought 
that it shouldve done more to monitor and tell him about the continuing reduction in the 
value of his plan and offered a suitable alternative. He said the matter had caused him to 
suffer considerable distress. To put things right, he requested that Scottish Widows pay him 
compensation.
Scottish Widows upheld Mr Js complaint in part. It didnt uphold the part of his complaint 
relating to investment performance. It explained the reasons why the value of his plan had 
reduced so quickly and significantly during 2022 and that the issue was outside of its control. 
It stated that its role wasnt to provide advice to Mr J about how he should invest his plan  
and that there wasnt any evidence the information provided over the phone by its 
representatives had strayed into advice. So it wasnt prepared to pay compensation in 
respect of this element of his complaint. But it noted that one of its representatives had 
provided incorrect information to Mr J regarding the availability of certain investment funds 
after he had taken a tax-free lump sum and so it paid him £75 compensation in respect of 
this. 
Mr J didnt accept Scottish Widows response to his complaint and so referred the matter to 
this service. He said that, contrary to its position, Scottish Widows had advised him to switch 
into the cash fund on 20 June 2022 and shouldve done this sooner after he expressed 
concern in earlier phone calls during May 2022 about his plan reducing in value. He also 
wanted this service to look beyond his own complaint and into Scottish Widows wider 
policies and procedures.
Our investigator didnt think that Scottish Widows needed to take any further action. This 
was because he was satisfied that it had clearly communicated to Mr J how his plan was 
invested and provided adequate information about his options  including the availability of a 
cash fund  early on in its discussions with him in May 2022. He said he hadnt seen, as 
expected, any evidence Scottish Widows had advised Mr J and that any investment fund 
selection  in terms of fund choice and timing  was entirely his own responsibility. While our 
investigator acknowledged that Mr J was upset about the value of his plan reducing, he 
didnt think Scottish Widows could fairly be held responsible for this. He thought that the 
compensation of £75 already paid by Scottish Widows for the provision of incorrect 
information was fair. And so he didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr J didnt accept our investigators assessment. He continued to believe that Scottish 
Widows was responsible for the investment loss suffered due to the delay in advising him to 
switch into the cash fund. Our investigator considered Mr Js additional comments but wasnt 
persuaded to change his view. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has 
been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by Mr J and Scottish Widows. So if I havent commented on any specific point, 
its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Ive considered all 
the evidence afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator 
for these reasons:
Scottish Widows role, as the scheme administrator, was to manage Mr Js plan in 
line with the agreed investment mandate, provide accurate and timely information, 
and to act on the instructions it received from him in a timely manner. It wasnt 
responsible for providing advice, assessing the suitability of the underlying 
investment fund(s) in his plan, suggesting alternative funds or checking whether he wanted to change his plans. 
A key component of this complaint concerns whether Scottish Widows advised Mr J. 
Mr J told our investigator that Scottish Widows had advised him to switch into its 
cash fund on 20 June 2022  so he thinks it shouldve advised him to do this sooner 
after he had expressed concern in earlier phone calls during May 2022 about his plan 
reducing in value. Scottish Widows didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions 
to advise Mr J. So I would be concerned if I saw evidence that it had advised him to 
take a particular course of action such as investing or switching into a specific fund.
The evidence shows that Mr J had several phone calls with Scottish Widows during 
May and June 2022. Ive considered this but theres no evidence that Scottish 
Widows advised Mr J on what to do with his plan. Rather, the evidence shows that 
Scottish Widows provided information only  setting out a range of options  and left 
it for Mr J to decide what to do with his plan. I havent seen any evidence that the 
information provided by Scottish Widows strayed into advice or couldve reasonably 
been interpreted as advice by Mr J  in the phone call where Mr J decided to switch 
into the cash fund the Scottish Widows representative explicitly stated that advice 
had not being given in connection with this.
Im satisfied that Scottish Widows made it clear to Mr J during those earlier phone 
conversations in May 2022 that he had the option to switch the value of his plan to a 
cash fund. Mr J made comments in those calls that he knew the value of his plan 
fluctuated and, despite knowing about the option, decided not to switch to the cash 
fund earlier. He described the situation regarding whether to switch or not as a 
gamble in the context that the value of his plan could continue to reduce or that it 
may increase in value. So I think he made an informed decision not to switch into the 
cash fund earlier than when he eventually did.
Scottish Widows isnt responsible for Mr Js investment decisions or the timing of 
these. Therefore, it isnt responsible for his decision not to switch into the cash fund 
earlier than 20 June 2022. All the evidence Ive seen shows that Scottish Widows 
acted in a timely manner in response to the instructions received from Mr J.
When Mr J crystallised the value of his plan, he decided, after taking his tax-free 
lump sum, to invest the residual fund in Scottish Widows Pathway 2  Buy Annuity 
drawdown investment solution because he was thinking of securing a lifetime annuity 
soon. Scottish Widows subsequently provided an enhanced lifetime annuity quote to 
Mr J in June 2022 but he decided not to proceed with this. It was unfortunate timing 
for him. As explained above, the annual rate of inflation in the UK increased 
significantly from late 2021 onwards which negatively impacted the value of 
corporate bonds and gilts during this period. Historically, these asset classes have 
been considered low risk with low volatility  they rarely experience the kind of 
volatility and sharp reduction in value over a short period of time as was experienced 
from late 2021 onwards and which continued throughout 2022. This had a negative 
impact on the unit price in the Pension Protector fund. In my view, the reasons that 
led to the significant increase in inflation and the impact this had on the value of                
Mr Js plan was unexpected and outside of Scottish Widows control.
Where the rate of inflation increases it usually leads to higher interest rates. Annuity 
rates are closely linked to interest rates. As interest rates have risen since late 2021, 
annuity rates have increased too  this is a key point. So while the value of Mr Js 
plan reduced in value, the annuity rates on the open market used to convert that fund 
into income have increased significantly during the same period  this means that 
less capital is currently required to secure the same level of annuity income than was the case before Mr Js plan reduced in value. While I understand why Mr J is upset 
about the value of his plan reducing, its a fact that he now has access to higher 
annuity rates on the open market as a direct result of the reasons that led to the 
reduced fund value in the first place, effectively producing a broadly neutral outcome. 
Mr J chose the investment pathway solution linked to securing a lifetime annuity. 
Scottish Widows isnt responsible for his decision not to secure a lifetime annuity. 
Alternatively, if he was unsure what to do, he shouldve sought financial advice. As 
noted above, it wasnt Scottish Widows role to advise Mr J.
Theres no dispute that during one phone call Scottish Widows representative 
incorrectly presented some funds to Mr J that werent strictly available. I think the £75 
compensation already paid by Scottish Widows in respect of this is a fair outcome. I 
say this because even if the representative hadnt made an error, I think its likely               
Mr J still wouldve made the same investment decisions.
Mr J wants to me to investigate Scottish Widows wider policies and procedures. I 
understand why he wants me to do this but were not the financial services regulator. 
So we dont police the industry or ensure that financial businesses adhere to the 
relevant rules and regulations. That is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Our role is to consider individual complaints and, in essence, to decide whether or 
not the financial business made an error or treated the consumer unfairly. Our aim in 
resolving the problem is to place the consumer, as close as possible, into the correct 
financial position had the error or unfair treatment not happened. In this case, while I 
understand why Mr J was frustrated and upset by the sudden and significant 
reduction in the value of his plan, I dont think that Scottish Widows made an error or 
treated him unfairly for the reasons explained. Therefore, I dont consider it would be 
fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to direct Scottish Widows to pay 
additional compensation to Mr J  or to take any further action in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman