DRN-3235503
The complaint
Mr E complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited charged a fee for a mistake that
wasnt his fault relating to his car insurance.
What happened
Mr E added his twin sons to his car insurance policy at the renewal date in April 2021.
During the online application he was asked about the type of licence and how long this had
been held. Mr E selected UK Provisional for his sons and confirmed the licences had been
held for one year and 11 months.
A couple of months later Admiral asked for copies of his sons driving licences, which he
provided. He was then told he would be charged £30 for an error with the information he had
given. Admiral says the licences had been held for 11 months. Not one year and 11 months.
Mr E says he answered the question factually. Both sons held a provisional licence for one
year and 11 months on the date of the application. He says the online questions werent
explicit. He wasnt asked how long a provisional driving licence had been held to drive a car.
Because of this he didnt think hed made a mistake. Mr E thinks Admiral should refund the
£30 and amend its systems to remove the ambiguity in the question about how long a
provisional licence has been held.
Admiral maintains that Mr Es sons only held a licence to drive a car for 11 months at the
time of the application. Because of this it had to make a change to the policy details and its
terms state a £30 admin fee is chargeable.
Mr E disagreed and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his
complaint. He thought it was reasonable, because the insurance was in relation to a car, that
Mr E would be expected to provide an answer about a car licence. The policy terms allow for
an admin charge in these circumstances and he thought the company had behaved fairly in
applying this fee.
Mr E wasnt happy with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Es complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My remit here is to consider whether Admiral treated Mr E fairly in charging an admin fee for
the mistake it says he made. Its not within the remit of this service to dictate the questions a
business should ask during its application process.
The online application questions, along with Mr Es responses are set out below:
What type of licence does the driver hold?- UK
Licence details  UK Provisional
How long have they held this licence? (years) - 1
How long have they held this licence? (months) - 11
I have seen a copy of one of the provisional driving licences. I acknowledge Mr E has twin
sons, so the dates will be the same for both. The licence was issued in May 2019. Mr Es
application to Admiral was in April 2021. So, the answer to the question, how long have they
held this (UK Provisional) licence is one year and eleven months.
I acknowledge a provisional UK licence doesnt allow an individual to drive a car until they
are 17. This means Mr Es sons were only able to drive a car under their provisional licence
from May 2020. So, at the time of his application they had held a provisional licence that
allowed them to drive a car for 11 months.
But that isnt the question Mr E was asked. He was asked how long his sons had held a UK
provisional licence. It cant be said that the answer he gave was factually incorrect 
because it wasnt.
I have thought about whether Mr E should have assumed Admirals question meant how
long had a (provisional) licence been held in respect of driving a car.
Its not for the customer to interpret what the insurance company deems relevant. Its
possible Admiral wanted to know how long a provisional licence had been held, including the
time prior to Mr Es sons 17th birthdays. The questions a customer is asked should not 
leave room for interpretation. Its because of this ambiguity that Mr E gave the answers he 
did.
The Your Car Insurance Guide for Mr Es policy says:
Changes to your policy will also incur administration charges that are payablefor the cost
of arranging and handling your policy. Details of these charges are available online and
included in your welcome/renewal documents.
The information online at https://www.admiral.com/about-us/fees says:
Other charges - Changes made to your policy as a result of inaccuracies in your policy
information being identified - £30.
If Mr E had made a mistake, its clear a £30 admin fee is payable. But I dont think its
reasonable to say he did make a mistake when answering the questions put to him.
I have thought about the impact this had on Mr E. It was clearly frustrating to be told hed
made a mistake, and incur a charge, as well as inconvenience caused in contacting the
company. So, when considering all of this I dont think Admiral has treated Mr E fairly and it
should provide a refund of the £30 admin fee as well as an apology that this charge was 
raised.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and that Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
should:
-provide a refund of the £30 administration fee; and
-provide an apology for the frustration it caused Mr E.I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Admiral responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr E also responded to say that he accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr E and Admiral accepted my findings, so my final decision is the same as my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons.
In summary Admiral thought Mr E had made a mistake in the information he provided during 
an application online. It charged a fee in line with its policy terms. I didnt think the question 
posed to Mr E was clear in confirming what the business wanted to know. Because of this I 
didnt think Mr E had responded incorrectly. I thought it was fair for Admiral to refund the fee 
and provide an apology.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Es 
complaint and Admiral Insurance Company Limited must:
-provide a refund of the £30 administration fee; and
-provide an apology for the frustration it caused Mr E
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman