DRN-1719029
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds Bank) didn't provide 
alternative accommodation for him and his family during a home insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr A made a previous complaint to this service and another ombudsman issued a final 
decision which included a recommendation that Lloyds Bank should have paid for alternative 
accommodation for a short period of a few days when his family were staying at a hotel.
Following that decision, Mr A raised a new complaint stating that he should have been 
provided with 15 days additional alternative accommodation as he believes his house was 
unsafe while building works were ongoing. Mr A says he was unable to use his kitchen and 
the flooring was left unsafe meaning that Mr A and his family had to walk on exposed 
flooring beams. And he says his familys health was put at risk as his children have asthma 
and the property was very dusty. Mr A and his family didn't stay in alternative 
accommodation during this time and stayed at the property or with family.  
As a result of Mr As complaint, Lloyds Bank offered him £490 food allowance as it 
acknowledged he wouldn't have been able to use his kitchen during that time and wouldve 
incurred extra food costs. It also paid him £30 compensation for failing to offer this to him 
sooner. But it also said that for a property to be deemed uninhabitable Mr A would have 
needed to not have access to sleeping, cooking and washing facilities and it cant see this 
was the case. So it doesn't accept that the property was uninhabitable or that it should pay 
alternative accommodation costs that weren't incurred.
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said that there was 
no evidence the property was uninhabitable, and the schedule of works didn't indicate that 
the work should have made the property uninhabitable. He also said that as Mr A was able 
to stay at the property, it didn't indicate that the property was uninhabitable.
Mr A didn't agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator and for the same reasons.
I can see from the schedule of works that the reinstatement of Mr As home was significant 
and wouldve caused disruption for Mr A and his family. But the terms of his policy state that 
Lloyds Bank will only offer alternative accommodation where the property is uninhabitable. 
So I have considered whether Mr A has shown this was the case.
Mr A hasn't evidenced that he wasn't able to live in the property. And it seems that he was 
living in the property throughout the time he is claiming for. Mr A has said that the insurer 
should have put him in alternative accommodation and due to his familys health conditions, leaving them in the property put them at risk. But I cant see that Mr A contacted Lloyds Bank 
at the time to discuss this. And the schedule of works proposed by Lloyds doesn't suggest 
that the works should have made the house uninhabitable.
Lloyds Bank cash settled this claim, meaning that Mr A used his own builders to complete 
the repairs needed to his property. Once the claim had been settled, Lloyds Bank would 
have had no reason to continue to be involved in the claim or make further considerations 
about whether the property was inhabitable. So I wouldn't have expected Lloyds Bank to do 
anything proactively to find out if there were any issues with the building works.
Ultimately, I cant see that Lloyds Bank made a mistake in not offering alternative 
accommodation at the time as they were unaware of the progress of the building works. And 
Mr A and his family didn't stay in a hotel or other paid for accommodation during the works 
so there aren't any costs for Lloyds Bank to reimburse.
Mr A told Lloyds Bank that his kitchen was unusable while the building works were taking 
place and, as a result, it paid him a total of £490 food allowance for any additional food costs 
Mr A incurred as a result of not having access to a usable kitchen. It also paid him £30 
compensation for not offering this sooner than it did, which I think is fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman