DRN-3365762
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limiteds declared his boiler to be beyond economical 
repair and is unhappy with the cost of installing a new boiler, under his home emergency 
policy.  
What happened
Mr B reported a problem with his boiler to Aviva. It sent an engineer to inspect. The engineer 
found the boiler needed some replacement parts, including a new circuit board, gas valve 
and a main heat exchanger. Aviva found the heat exchanger wasnt available from its 
suppliers and says the boiler was beyond economical repair (BER).
Aviva offered to supply a replacement boiler free of charge under Mr Bs policy terms. It 
quoted him £1,500 for the installation. 
Mr B says he found replacement parts available online. He also disputes the installation 
quote, which he says was too expensive. He told Aviva a local gas safe engineer could 
install a boiler for much less than this for between £350 and £400.
Aviva says it will only use parts sourced from its own suppliers as it has a duty to ensure 
they are of a high quality. It says it believes its installation quote is competitive and reflects 
the quality of work. As Mr B didnt accept its quote, it offered him what it would pay for the 
replacement boiler, which came to £432. Mr B thought it should provide a boiler and he 
could arrange installation himself.
Mr B decided to replace his boiler independently. He says the payment offered by Aviva 
doesnt cover the cost of the replacement boiler. He wants Aviva to pay for the costs he has 
incurred. Aviva didnt agree so he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought Avivas explanation was 
reasonable that it couldnt guarantee parts not sourced from its suppliers. She says the 
policy terms support the decision to declare the boiler BER when a part was no longer 
available. 
Our investigator didnt think the policy terms required Aviva to supply a boiler it wasnt going 
to install. She thought its argument that it couldnt guarantee the boiler would be fitted 
correctly was reasonable, and it was fair to offer Mr B what it wouldve paid for the 
replacement boiler.
Mr B didnt think Avivas position was fair. He says his installer would provide a guarantee for 
the boiler, so it neednt. He maintains the installation quote is far higher than a local fitter 
would charge, and the listed price for the replacement boiler is much more than Aviva 
offered. He asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Let me explain.
Mr B originally questioned whether the heat exchanger needed replacing, as he didnt recall 
the engineer telling him this. Ive read the notes the engineer made. This states the heat 
exchanger must be replaced along with the other components. I dont dispute Mr Bs 
recollection. But there is a record to show a replacement heat exchanger was identified by 
the engineer. 
Mr B also says an independent engineer agreed his boiler should be replaced. Based on the 
evidence I think a heat exchanger was required, but this part couldnt be sourced through 
Avivas approved suppliers. Based on this I think Avivas position is reasonable that the 
boiler had to be declared to be BER. 
Ive read the policy terms to understand what is expected when a boiler is determined to be 
BER. The terms say:
Obsolete parts: HomeServe uses reputable suppliers who stock the usual parts required to 
fix most boilers. However if, when attempting to fix your system we find that the relevant 
manufacturers spare parts are not readily available after a search of all HomeServes 
stockists or that parts may be available but will take longer than 28 days to source, 
HomeServe will not be able to complete your repair. Please refer to obsolete parts section 
for details of what HomeServe will do in these situations.
And:
Obsolete parts and BER - after 6 months  If upon making a claim after the first 6 months of 
cover your boiler is deemed to be BER or the parts required to fix your boiler are obsolete 
and the boiler is less than 7 years old, we will source, replace and install a new boiler. If the 
boiler is deemed beyond economical repair and is 7 years or older, we will source, replace 
and install a new boiler but you will be required to pay the installation costs. We will provide 
for you, a quote for this work.
From the records provided, Mr Bs boiler was thought to be well in excess of seven years 
old. Ive not seen anything that suggests otherwise and Mr B hasnt disputed this point. So, 
in these circumstances the policy requires a boiler to be provided and installed by Aviva. But 
there is a cost for the installation. 
Mr B thinks the installation charge is exorbitant. I agree that the install quote Aviva supplied 
is much higher than the price he says hed pay a local engineer. I understand from Mr B that 
this would be around £350-£400. But there is nothing in the policy terms to say that if a boiler 
needs replacing, because it is BER, Aviva will offer a replacement to be fitted independently. 
The reasons it gave for not doing so  that it cant guarantee the installation carried out by a 
third party  are understandable.
Aviva offered £432 towards Mr Bs new boiler if he didnt want to accept its installation quote. 
It says this is the price it would pay for the boiler. Mr B says he found this boiler for sale 
online ranging from £1,025 to £1,149. I acknowledge Mr B says the boiler wouldve cost him 
more. But its reasonable to expect Aviva to pay less than the retail price given the volume of 
boilers it will buy. The policy terms dont provide a cash alternative if Mr B chooses not to 
accept Avivas installation quote. I think its fair that it offered what itd pay for the boiler, but I cant reasonably ask it to pay more than this.
The price Aviva charges for installation is a commercial decision for it to make. Were not the 
industry regulator and cant dictate what rates the business should charge. The price a small 
independent trader is able to quote is likely to be lower than a larger business can. But this 
doesnt mean to say that Avivas quote was unfair.   
I have thought about the cost of boilers Mr B found, together with his estimate for the cost of 
fitting. Based on his figures Mr B wouldve paid between £1,375 and £1,599 for a new boiler 
and fitting. This is similar to the price he will have paid to Aviva for installation, which was 
£1,500 including the boiler.
I understand Mr B is unhappy and frustrated that Aviva wouldnt provide a boiler for his 
installer to fit. But I dont think the policy provides for this. 
Having considered all of this, I think Aviva treated Mr B fairly when relying on the terms of its 
policy and offering to install the boiler, or to provide a payment toward the cost of a new one. 
So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman