DRN-4458189
The complaint
Mr W complains that Metro Bank PLC trading as RateSetter (RateSetter) held him 
responsible for a loan he didnt apply for.
What happened
Mr W is represented in this complaint, but Ill mainly refer to Mr W for ease of reading.
What Mr W says
Mr W explained that in December 2021 he noticed a direct debit had been listed on his bank
account that he didnt recognise. He found that the Direct Debit had been requested by
RateSetter to repay a loan for £10,000 that had been paid into his account the previous
month.
Mr W contacted RateSetter who informed him theyd received an application for a loan in Mr
Ws name and paid the money into his bank account. Mr W denied making the application
and explained that hed been owed money by his lodger (Mr D) for unpaid rent. Mr D had
also told Mr W that he was owed money (£10,000) by other persons (unknown) and that Mr
D would arrange for the whole amount to be paid into Mr Ws account because he was
having difficulties with his own bank account at the time.
Mr W went on to say that Mr D told him to keep £3,000 and pay the remainder to two
different accounts in Mr Ds name. The £3,000 was made up of past (& future) rent and
some incidental expenses.
Mr W said he received the money and made the payments as agreed with Mr D. Mr W said
he didnt notice that the incoming payment was in the name of RateSetter and was
unaware of them at the time. It wasnt until he saw the Direct Debit that he found out they
were a loan company.
Mr W didnt think he was responsible for the loan because he was unaware of it and didnt
agree to it or apply for it. RateSetter held Mr W responsible for the loan and Mr W raised a
complaint. Mr W also reported the matter to the police and Action Fraud. The loan was
settled by a close family member in order to prevent adverse financial records affecting Mr
Ws credit rating.
What RateSetter says
RateSetter examined the circumstances of the loan and decided not to write it off, believing
Mr W was responsible. In summary they said:
Mr W didnt question the source of the funds which appeared as RateSetter in his
account.
Mr W confirmed hed spent a portion of the funds.
Mr W only provided limited messages to support his case.
Lack of confirmation of an active police investigation.
Open Banking was authorised as part of the application process requiring the user to
access their own online banking.
Its considered a civil dispute between Mr W and Mr D.
Mr W was left unhappy with RateSetters outcome and brought his complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was looked into by an investigator.
The investigation so far
Both parties were asked for any information or evidence to support their respective case. Mr
W, through his representatives supplied details about what had happened and evidence to
support the rental agreement and an explanation of how Mr W was draw into the loan
application (without his knowledge) by Mr D.
In summary, its Mr Ws case that:
He was innocently used to receive the loan which was applied for without his
knowledge or permission.
He was acting in good faith when he moved the funds which had been requested by
Mr D to be sent to two other accounts.
He believed the money was owed to Mr D but wasnt told anything more about the
debt.
He was told by Mr D that his account couldnt be used at the time to receive the debt
which is why he asked to move the whole amount into Mr Ws account.
He wasnt aware of Open Banking and hadnt given his permission to use it.
Its accepted that Mr W was nave when he entered into the arrangements to accept
the payment (loan) and move the money to two other accounts.
The £3,000 he kept was a genuine debt due to rental arrears and a payment to cover
future rental fees and expenses.
Mr W complained that:
RateSetter failed to undertake an appropriate investigation into his situation.
RateSetter failed to properly assess the loan application which was made using false
details and without his knowledge or permission.
There was no binding contract due to the above.
As a result of the loan application, Mr W and a close family member have incurred significant
losses. Mr W believes RateSetter should repay the loan, any charges and fees plus
additional legal expenses incurred by him.
RateSetter provided details of the loan application and their processes:The loan application was made through a credit broker.
Open Banking was used to analyse the income and expenditure from Mr Ws
account.
Various credit checks were used to establish the viability of the loan application.
The email and phone number were different to that which Mr W said he usually uses.
After considering the evidence, the investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint, commenting
that:
Theres no explanation how Mr D could receive two bank transfers from Mr W, when
Mr W said the reason for routing the debt payment to him was because Mr D was
having issues with his bank account.
The loan payment showed it was from RateSetter on Mr Ws account, but he didnt
appear to have questioned this.
Loan details matched Mr Ws personal information and bank statements were
provided through Open Banking. This needed Mr Ws private security information in
order to access his online banking and give authority to release the statements
through Open Banking.
There were inconsistencies in the information provided to Mr W by Mr D.
Overall the evidence pointed towards Mr W having knowledge of the loan.
Mr W, through his representative, strongly disagreed with the investigators outcome,
arguing that the recommendations were very limited based on the comprehensive evidence
and analysis of the situation provided by Mr W.
Further commentary was received which, in summary, stated:
Many points raised by Mr W werent considered.
Its accepted that Mr W was too trusting and nave, but the investigators outcome
questions Mr Ws integrity.
The question of whether a contract existed between Mr W and RateSetter (which
could therefore be enforced) was never answered.
Mr W had no financial motivation to be involved in the loan as he had no need for
additional funds.
It has cost Mr W a significant amount of money to deal with this including additional
lawyers bills.
Lawyers wouldnt have been engaged if those close to Mr W thought he was
intentionally involved in this situation.
Further investigations were carried out by a different investigator who provided their ownrecommendations, again they didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint, commenting that:
Different contact details (email and phone) arent evidence that Mr W was unaware of
the loan arrangement.
The receipt of Mr Ws bank statement through Open Banking showed a connection
between the application and Mr W.
It was thought that RateSetter hadnt retained a copy of those statements.
There was no plausible way for Mr D to obtain the online banking details needed to
log into Mr Ws account as they were known only to Mr W and werent written down.
It was concluded that the evidence showed Mr W should be held liable for the loan.
RateSetter didnt teat Mr W unfairly.
The investigation and response to requests for information (to RateSetter) were
reasonable.
There was doubt cast on the reasons for Mr D not been able to receive funds into his
account.
Mr Ws representatives again strongly disagreed, making further points:
Mr W is a victim of this fraud carried out by Mr D.
The timely repayment of the loan by Mr W and his family support his lack of
involvement in the loan.
There was no motive for Mr W to be involved in the loan fraud, especially considering
he was already owed in excess of £10,000 by the family firm and could have
obtained funds as necessary.
The change in contact details was disregarded by the investigator.
It was unfair to accept RateSetters position when they were unable to provide the
bank statements theyd earlier referred to.
There was no contract between RateSetter and Mr W.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a
decision.
As part of my own investigation, I examined the issue of the statements which were used to
support RateSetters assessment of the loan application. It had been earlier mentioned that
these werent available, but this was incorrect. RateSetter obtained details of Mr Ws account
through Open Banking. I asked Mr W to explain how this had occurred, as access to Open
Banking (in this complaint) is only through the user gaining access to their own online
banking, initiated by RateSetter as part of the loan application process.
Mr Ws representatives recognise this is a matter of concern, but strongly believe Mr W is
nave, rather than involved in the loan itself. Theyve suggested that whilst Mr D was living
with Mr W, access to Mr Ws online banking was obtained (probably to do with arrangementsto have the £10,000 paid to him) and this is where Mr D arranged for the Open banking
permissions to be given to RateSetter without Mr Ws knowledge.
Open Banking  this is a feature that allows access to a persons bank account by third
parties.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mr Ws complaint on 3 November 2023. In 
my provisional findings, I explained why I intended to partly uphold Mr Ws complaint and 
offered both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An 
extract of that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much has been written about the situation Mr W found himself in and Id like to confirm that
Ive considered all the testimony/evidence and information provided by both parties. Im very
aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than Mr W and his
representatives may wish. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what
I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I will,
however, refer to those crucial aspects which impact the decision Im making.
Whilst the submissions are comprehensive, the complaint made by Mr W is clear. He
believes hes the victim of ID theft which resulted in his lodger (Mr D) falsely using his details
to apply for a loan, whilst then engineering for Mr W to send the bulk of that loan to him.
RateSetter believe theres evidence to support that Mr W knew about the loan and was
involved in the process. He should therefore be required to abide by the loan arrangement
and repay it (which has already been done).
Some matters here are quite clear to me, whilst some others are not. For clarity, Im setting
out those factors that I think are apparent from the overall evidence:
Mr W had a genuine arrangement with Mr D to rent out a room.
Mr D had missed payments on the rent he owed to Mr W.
The email and phone number attached to the loan application are different to those
used by Mr W.
The loan enquiry came through a credit broker after an account was created with
them in Mr Ws name.
Open Banking was used to obtain statements from Mr Ws bank account.
Mr W received a £10,000 loan that was titled RateSetter into his bank account.
He retained £3,000 of the loan which was later spent.
The statements show that the day the loan was received, Mr W made two payments
(£2,000 & £5,000) to different bank accounts in Mr Ds name.Mr W attempted to call Mr D on several occasions after the issue came to light.
The matter was referred to the police  but no update by them was ever provided.
There are two main considerations here, one is that if the evidence shows (on balance) that
Mr W was involved with the loan application, then hed be held liable for the full costs and
charges from it. Similarly, if it didnt, then he wouldnt. Secondly, if its shown that Mr W had
used those funds and had knowledge about the general circumstances, then he could be
held liable for the repayment of the substantive loan amount but couldnt be held liable for
the charges/fees and interest.
To be clear here, there are no accusations being thrown out concerning Mr W or his
integrity, what Im considering is, on balance, if its fair and reasonable for Mr W to be held
liable for the whole arrangement/ the substantive loan payment or for it to be written off in its
entirety.
But, there are some aspects of Mr Ws explanation that I found hard to understand:
Open Banking access was initiated through the RateSetter website, so its difficult to
imagine that Mr W wouldnt have noticed something unusual about the process when
Mr D asked him for his phone. There would have been different screens which Mr W
would likely have seen as part of the RateSetter web pages.
There was no plausible reason to give access to online banking to Mr D in order to
receive the debt from Mr Ds associates.
The story that Mr Ds account couldnt be used was lacking in plausibility as he was
able to receive the loan funds on the same day it was paid into Mr ws account.
What the evidence currently shows here is that Mr W opened access to his online banking
through the Open Banking portal from RateSetters website. I think the critical element here
is whether Mr W knew about the loan or was duped into giving all his information away to his
lodger.
Given the steps needed to access Open banking, I think it unlikely that Mr W wasnt aware
that Mr D was using his personal information for something other than arranging the
repayment of a debt. But Im not convinced Mr W specifically knew it was to be used with
RateSetter to apply for a loan for £10,000.
RateSetter themselves havent been able to show direct contact with Mr W prior to the
payment of the loan into his account. So, I dont think they can hold him to the contract
created when the loan was applied for.
Having said that, Mr W used those funds that came into his account, some he kept and the
bulk he sent to Mr D  on the same day he received them. I dont doubt that Mr Ws
involvement was driven by naivety and a willingness to assist his lodger. But, I think theres
sufficient evidence to support the position that Mr W had some knowledge that Mr Ds
circumstances were, at the least unusual, particularly his request to use Mr Ws account to
route the payments. Im afraid that Mr Ws version of events doesnt really hang together as
a plausible reason to accept funds in such an unusual manner.
Given that Mr W received a payment from RateSetter (I acknowledge he said he was
unaware who they were at the time), and went on to utilise them, either for himself or pay
them to Mr D, my current thoughts are that its both fair and reasonable for RateSetter torequire the repayment of the substantive loan (which has already been repaid), but not to
add any charges/fees or interest to it. Im currently intending to recommend that those
additional amounts paid are refunded to Mr W.
I have considered those additional points raised by Mr W and his representatives concerning
RateSetters approach/ and their own investigation. Having examined how the information
was used and their own approach, theres nothing that particularly stands out that Id make
comment on.
It's worth reiterating that as part of the application process, access to Open Banking itself is
likely regarded as a safeguard to false loan applications due to the additional security
required to gain access to the applicants own bank account, so I dont think that RateSetters
approach was unreasonable when they processed the application for a loan.
I recognise Mr Ws representatives comments concerning motive, but my findings relate to
whether he can be held liable for the loan based on the available evidence. I understand why
theyve said that, but for the purposes of this complaint, my current thoughts are to
recommend the repayment of the fees/charges/any interest over and above the loan
amount.
I understand that Mr W has also claimed the legal fees be repaid. I currently dont think thats
something that RateSetter should have to pay. It was Mr Ws choice to pay for this service,
so I dont think its then fair to expect RateSetter to pay the bill when they had no say in the
costs incurred.
My provisional decision is that Im currently minded to uphold this complaint in part and
require Metro Bank PLC trading as RateSetter to repay those additional fees/interest and 
charges over and above the substantive loan amount already repaid.
I invited Mr W and RateSetter to give me any more evidence and information they wanted 
me to consider before issuing my final decision. Both parties responded and accepted my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
In order to settle this complaint, RateSetter should now repay the additional fees, charges 
and any interest accrued as a result of the loan payment. RateSetter have calculated this to 
be £1,008.32 based on the two payments made towards the loan by Mr W which totalled 
£11,008.32. For the avoidance of any doubt, I do not uphold the claim made by Mr W 
against the substantive loan of £10,000. Its both fair and reasonable that RateSetter held 
him liable for the loan payment which I note has already been repaid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint (in part) against Metro Bank PLC  trading as RateSetter and theyre now required to finalise the complaint as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman