DRN-2943463
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service provided by BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, when 
he wanted to voluntary terminate his hire purchase agreement.
What happened
On 7 September 2016, Mr S was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMW. The agreement was for £50,107.33 over 48 months; with 47 
repayments of £755.88 and an optional final payment of £21,515.96.
On 20 January 2020, Mr S called BMW to ask for a settlement figure. He says that, in this 
call, he also asked about voluntarily terminating the agreement, but said BMW didnt inform 
him of his right to return the car. 
On 11 May 2020 Mr S formally requested to voluntarily terminate the agreement. Which 
BMW agreed to the following day. 
Mr S said he also experienced issues when he returned the car  it wasnt collected when 
agreed, and BMW contacted him to say they hadnt received the car back a week after it was 
collected. BMW also charged Mr S £923.63 for exceeding the mileage on the agreement.
On 22 May 2020, Mr S complained to BMW that theyd mis-advised him in January 2020, 
and that he had to pay an additional four months payments as a result. He followed this up 
with complaints about whatd happened when the car was returned, about the excess 
mileage charge and about BMW recording late payment of the excess mileage charge on his 
credit file. 
BMW said that Mr S had requested voluntary termination quotes throughout the agreement, 
so they thought he was aware what his options were. And they didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong in January 2020. But they said that they couldnt locate the January 2020 
call, and offered Mr S a £100 reduction in the excess mileage charge by way of an apology. 
Which Mr S accepted when he paid the excess mileage charge in September 2020.
But Mr S wasnt happy with BMWs overall response, and he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said Mr S contacted BMW in October 2018 and April 2019, asking about 
voluntarily terminating the agreement. BMW gave him written quotes, which also explained 
his options. Because of this, she thought BMW had made Mr S reasonably aware of his 
rights and what would happen. And she didnt think it was reasonable to say that the phone 
call in January 2020 was the reason why Mr S kept the car for an additional four months.
The investigator said that BMWs notes for the call in January 2020 said Mr S had asked for 
a settlement quote. And BMW say this would only be needed if Mr S wanted to keep the car, 
not hand it back. So she thought that Mr S had discussed ending the agreement and it was 
possible that BMW had misunderstood the basis on which Mr S wanted to do this. But, 
because theyd previously made Mr S aware of his voluntary termination rights, she didnt 
think BMW needed to do anything more.
With regards to the collection of the car, the investigator said that receiving an email trying to 
arrange collection of the car, after itd been collected, would cause Mr S some distress. But 
shed seen that, on the day the email had been sent, BMW had spoken to Mr S confirming 
theyd received the car. So she thought BMW had sent this email in error and, as Mr S was 
told the same day that BMW had the car, BMW didnt need to do anything more about this.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He felt that BMW hadnt acted fairly or reasonably by 
applying an entry to his credit file while he was in dispute with them. He didnt think it was 
reasonable for the investigator to base her findings on a call that couldnt be located; and he 
thought that BMW offering him £100 shows they knew they were at fault. So he asked for 
this matter to be passed to an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The agreement Mr S signed explained the car was limited to a total of 56,000 miles, and that 
hed be charged for any mileage above that. The agreement also explained if you return the 
Vehicle before the end of the agreement, the Total Maximum Mileage will be reduced to 
reflect the shorter period of hire on a pro-rata basis.
The agreement also explained that Mr S had the right to terminate the agreement and return 
the car. If he did this, hed be required to pay any arrears, any excess mileage, and (if he 
hadnt done so already) half of the amount payable under the agreement - £28,521.16.
BMWs case notes show that Mr S called them, asking for settlement figures, on 5 February 
2018, 20 October 2018, 22 October 2018, 8 April 2019 and 20 January 2020. Settlement 
figures were also produced for Mr S on 25 March 2019 and 4 September 2019 at the request 
of car dealerships. And, for the calls of 22 October 2018 and 8 April 2019, the call notes 
show BMW also specifically discussed voluntary termination with Mr S.
BMW have explained that not all of their calls are recorded. Theyve been unable to locate a 
copy of the call that took place on 20 January 2020, so Im satisfied that this was most likely 
a call that wasnt recorded. But, because not all calls are recorded, I dont think this specific 
call not being available means BMW are trying to hide something - I cant uphold a complaint 
on the lack of a call recording alone. And I have to rely on what both parties have told me 
and make my decision on what I believe is more likely than not to have happened.Over the lifetime of the agreement, BMW provided Mr S with settlement figures on at least 
seven different occasions, including on 20 January 2020. They also discussed voluntary 
termination with him on at least two occasions. And the agreement Mr S signed (and was 
provided a copy of) explained his right to terminate the agreement; and how much he 
needed to have paid to be able to do so without having to make any further contribution.
In an email of 22 May 2020, Mr S said I have contacted BMW on many occasions and have 
asked if I can return my car  I knew I had to get over the 50% mark before I could exercise 
the return of the car which happened around September 2019. So, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, Im satisfied Mr S was fully aware of the terms of voluntary termination, and he 
was also aware of when he could return the car with only arrears / excess mileage to pay.
BMWs call notes also show Mr S contacted them on 24 March 2020, to ask about a 3-month 
payment deferral, as his income had been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. And on 24 
April 2020, he told BMW hed most likely return the car in August 2020. Then, on 8 May 
2020 he applied for a payment deferral. I dont think that these actions show that Mr S was 
definitely going to return the car in January 2020, had he been given different information in 
the phone call. Im satisfied its more likely than not that, up until early May 2020, Mr S 
intended to return the car at the end of the agreement.
BMW were unable process the request for a payment deferral, because there were less than 
six months remaining on the agreement. So, on 11 May 2020, Mr S made a written request 
to voluntary terminate the agreement. And the agreement was terminated the following day.
Given the above, Im satisfied that Mr S knew in January 2020 that he was able to return the 
car at this point, with only any arrears or excess mileage to pay. And this is regardless of 
what he may or may not have been told during the call on 20 January 2020. So I dont think 
what was said on that call, given all of the other information hed been provided with, and the 
action he took after this call, was the sole reason that Mr S waited until 11 May 2020 before 
terminating the agreement. 
Mr S also had access to, and use of, the car from 20 January 2020 to 11 May 2020, and I 
think its only fair that he pays for this access/usage. So I wont be asking BMW to reimburse 
Mr S the payments he made after 20 January 2020.
BMWs case notes show that, although the car collection date was originally set for 22 May 
2020, it wasnt collected until 2 June 2020. But the collection agent didnt tell BMW that the 
car had been successfully collected until 9 June 2020, the same day BMW contacted Mr S to 
arrange for collection. I appreciate that Mr S would be worried by BMW asking him when he 
was returning a car thatd already been collected, but I can see this was caused by a delay 
in BMW being told what had happened. And this confusion was sorted swiftly, with Mr S 
being told that BMW had the car the same day. Because of this, Im satisfied that any impact 
on Mr S was for a very brief period of time. And I dont think that BMW needs to compensate 
Mr S for this limited impact.
When the car was collected, itd done 63,502 miles. This was more than the maximum of 
56,000 miles allowable under the agreement. And, because Mr S returned the car before the 
end of the agreement, the total miles allowable was reduced to 51,333 on a pro-rata basis. 
And this meant that BMW charged Mr S for the excess mileage. And, because Mr M didnt 
pay this until 15 September 2020, BMW recorded the late payment on his credit file.
The agreement made it clear what the total mileage Mr S was able to do in the car, before 
being charged for any excess mileage. And hed substantially exceeded this at the time he 
returned that car. So I think BMW acted reasonably by charging for the excess mileage.If Mr S had returned the car in January 2020, the allowable mileage wouldve been reduced 
to 46,666 (based on 40-months hire in a 48-month agreement). But, in his email of 22 May 
2020, Mr S said the car has just been sat idle on my drive for two months. So he only drove 
the car for 42 of the 44-months he actually had it in his possession. And I think its highly 
unlikely that, if Mr S did a total of 63,502 in the 42-months hed used the car, then the last 
16,836 of these were done in the final two months. So Im satisfied that, if the car was 
returned in January 2020, Mr S would still have exceeded the allowable mileage and been 
charged for this.
Ive seen that BMW wrote to Mr S on 26 July 2020, chasing him for the outstanding excess 
mileage payment. And this letter says please note that if the balance remains outstanding 
for 28 days or more, it may be reported to the credit reference agencies which could affect 
your ability to obtain credit in the future.
Ive also seen an email dated 5 August 2020, when BMW also offered Mr S a payment plan 
if he wasnt in a position to pay the full excess mileage charges in one go. In this email BMW 
again told Mr S that any payments outstanding for more than 28 days would be reported as 
late payments to the credit reference agencies. So Im satisfied that Mr S was aware of what 
could happen if he didnt pay the excess mileage charges.
I appreciate that Mr S felt BMW should refund him the payments hed made between 20 
January and 11 May 2020, which could be used to offset the excess mileage charge. But 
these are two separate things. As Ive said above, Mr S would always have had an excess 
mileage charge if the car had been returned in January 2020, and this would need to be 
paid. And paying the excess mileage charge wouldnt stop BMW from refunding any 
payments, if any payment refunds were due. So I dont think that Mr S asking for a payment 
refund was a valid reason not to pay the excess mileage charge. 
Mr S didnt pay the excess mileage charge until September 2020, and this was £100 lower 
than originally calculated as BMW had offered a reduction by way of an apology for the 
service provided. As this was paid more than 28 days after falling due, and because he was 
given notice of the consequences of not paying on time, I dont think that BMW did anything 
wrong by recording this as a late payment on Mr Ss credit file. And I wont be asking them to 
remove this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman