DRN-3535882
The complaint
An organisation that Ill refer to as E has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim. 
What happened
E held business interruption insurance with RSA. E claimed on its policy after being 
impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
RSA said that while the policy could potentially provide cover, they didnt think E had shown 
that Covid-19 occurred at the insured premises. So RSA turned down Es claim.
Unhappy with RSAs response, E brought its complaint to our service. It thought RSA should 
pay its claim as it had been forced to close by the Government.
Our investigator looked into Es complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
E asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said Covid-19 was a notifiable disease and the 
Government restrictions meant it wasnt able to access its premises, causing significant 
interruption to its business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Es business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if RSA have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Es claim.
The relevant term in Es policy says:
The word Damage is extended to include closure of the Premises or part thereof 
on the order or advice of any local or governmental authority as a result of an 
outbreak or occurrence at the Premises of
A) Any human contagious or infectious disease other than Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS related condition, an outbreak of which 
is required by law or stipulated by the governmental authority to be notified
Covid-19 is a human contagious or infectious disease. So for this extension to provide cover 
for Es claim, the closure of the premises, or part of the premises, would need to be as a 
result of a case of Covid-19 occurring at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden 
of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers.
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 occurred at Es premises. Therefore, I 
think RSA have acted fairly and reasonably in finding that Es claim isnt covered. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome E was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Es claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman