DRN-4004846
The complaint
Mr S complains about the cashback amount paid on his Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax credit card. 
What happened
Mr S has a credit card with Halifax that comes with a cashback facility based on card use. In 
July 2021 Halifax wrote to Mr S with details of an update to the credit card terms and 
conditions. The information provided included details of how much cashback Mr S could 
earn and limits that applied. Halifax gave the following information relating to cashback: 
In any year, we will pay 
-0.5% of the value of the first £11,999 of purchases (£60)
-1% of all other purchases up to a maximum of £24,999.50 (£130) 
-There is no rebate for purchases over £24,999.50 
Halifax sent Mr S monthly texts confirming the amount of cashback hed earned, providing a 
running total for the year. In August 2022 Halifax sent Mr S a text message that said he had 
built up a cashback balance of £518.74. But in September 2020 it sent another text that said 
£190 cashback had been paid to the credit card which is less than Mr S was expecting. 
Mr S raised a complaint but Halifax didnt offer agree it had made any mistakes. Halifax 
offered Mr S £40 to resolve his complaint. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Mr S 
provided copies of the text messages hed received from Halifax that gave a running 
cashback balance. Our investigator thought Halifaxs messages had caused some confusion 
regarding the amount of cashback Mr S would receive. Whilst they didnt ask Halifax to pay 
Mr S the remaining cashback balance, they recommended a payment of £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Halifax accepted but Mr S did not. As a result, Mr S 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
concerning the overall timeline for Mr S complaint. 
Halifax has provided a copy of the correspondence it sent Mr S in July 2021 that confirmed 
revisions to its credit card terms and conditions. The update included details of limits Halifax 
introduced to cashback pay outs in any one year. Ive given the maximum pay out figures 
above which mean there was a cashback limit of £190 in any one year. So whilst I 
understand why Mr S thought he would receive the full cashback balance built up, Im 
satisfied the terms confirm there is a maximum of £190 cashback available per year. And 
Halifax has complied with its terms when paying cashback to Mr S. 
I can see Halifax sent Mr S monthly text messages confirming how much hed earned in 
cashback and providing a running total. I can understand why Mr S was of the view the 
cashback would be payable in line with his running balance. And I can understand why hes 
disappointed to find out the terms limit cashback payments to £190. But as Mr S could never 
have earned more than the £190 cashback limit in any one year, Im satisfied the payment 
he received is in line with the credit cards terms and conditions and that hes received the 
correct amount. 
Halifax has already paid Mr S £40 as a gesture of goodwill after it responded to his 
complaint. Our investigator upheld Mr S complaint and asked Halifax to pay him £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. I appreciate thats less than Mr S was expecting to 
receive. But Im satisfied that a payment of £100 reflects the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused and is a fair and reasonable way to resolve his complaint. As Im 
satisfied the £100 settlement Halifax has agreed to make is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to pay him a further £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman