DRN-1970645
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy. Mr M says Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold him this policy in 
or around March 1998. 
What happened
This MPPI policy was sold when Mr M was taking out a new mortgage. It covered Mr M in 
the event of him being unable to work or losing his job. 
Mr M says the policy was mis-sold because he didnt want or need it and the policy 
wasnt properly explained to him. 
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said it shouldnt be upheld. Because Mr M 
disagrees, his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
This policy was sold during a meeting and Ive seen that Mr M filled out a mortgage 
application form. Ive been provided with a copy. I can see that on the form Mr M was 
given  options to choose whether he wanted MPPI that included unemployment cover or 
not - or not to take MPPI at all. Ive seen that Mr M put a tick was in the box relating to 
PPI with illness, injury and unemployment cover.
Given that Mr M signed this application form, it seems likely that hed made the decision to 
buy the MPPI having given taking it out some thought. And because there were 3 options to 
choose from - including payment protection not required  I think he would have been 
aware this policy wasnt something he had to buy if he didnt want to.
In selling Mr M this type of policy, B&B was under an obligation to make sure the 
information it gave during the sale was clear, fair and not misleading.
However, these events took place some years ago and I cant say what was actually 
discussed at the original meeting or whether Mr M was told everything about the policy 
that he should have been told.
But I do know, having also seen a copy, that MPPI was referred to on Mr Ms mortgage offer 
and so I think he would have been aware of some important details about the MPPI, 
including the type of cover, amount covered and the monthly cost, being £43.68. Also, the 
policy was free for the first six months. So I consider its likely that Mr M would have been 
made aware of the key information about the policy when he received the offer. B&B also 
said Mr M was sent a policy booklet explaining all the particulars of the cover and it sent us a 
copy.
Given the passage of the time, B&B wasnt able to send me every piece of documentation 
from the sale, but that isnt particularly unusual or unreasonable given that the sale 
happened quite a few years ago. 
I think Mr M would have been eligible for the cover and I dont think he would have been 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. Mr M has 
pointed out that at the time of the sale he hadnt been in continuous employment for 6 
months when he decided to take the cover. Whilst thats something that could be important 
in relation to being eligible to make a claim on the policy, its not an issue here given that 
by the time the policy began and the mortgage lending was provided to him, in June 1998, 
hed been with his employer for more than 6 months. So whilst Mr M agreed to take out the 
MPPI during the application process, he was eligible by the time the policy started and 
would have been able to make a claim if necessary. 
I looked at the cost of the policy and I think it was comparable with similar products I know 
were being generally marketed at the time. Theres no evidence to suggest the monthly 
cost was unaffordable for Mr M.
I note that Mr M was borrowing a significant amount compared to his income and that he 
had a relatively small amount of equity in the value of the property he was buying, when 
compared against his new mortgage. So the mortgage would have been a major 
undertaking for him and a very significant financial commitment. Mr M told us that he was 
entitled to some discretionary sickness benefits from his work and had some limited 
savings. But the MPPI would have covered him for up to 12 months if he was unable to 
work. It might also have avoided the necessity of him digging into other financial 
resources. 
Having taken everything into account, I think the evidence shows Mr M made his own  
choice to select it. I can understand that given his financial situation, this type of 
protection could be viewed as a sensible precaution.
Because of this, I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold and Im therefore not 
upholding the complaint.
My final decision
or the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct Bradford 
& Bingley Plc to do anything to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman