DRN-3341054
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs O complain that Watford Insurance Company Limited cancelled their motor 
insurance policy without telling them and refused to cover their claim following an incident. 
What happened
Mr O took out a policy with Watford through an online comparison site. He said that both he 
and Mrs O, a named driver on the policy, had full UK driving licences. The policy renewed 
and Mr O was asked to check that all information was correct, but he made no changes. 
Mr O reported an incident to Watford, and it asked for copies of both driving licence 
summaries to validate the policy. Mr O didnt provide that for Mrs O, so Watford invoked its 
right to decline indemnity for the claim due to non-cooperation and it then cancelled the 
policy giving seven days notice. But Mr O said he didnt receive the cancellation letters. 
When Mr O later made a claim, Watford said he wasnt insured. He then provided Mrs Os 
licence summary showing that she held a provisional UK licence. Watford said if it had 
known this it wouldnt have provided cover at all. Mr O was unhappy with this as he said he 
hadnt received Watfords letters and the incident wasnt covered. Mr O thought Watfords 
letters had been forged. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Watford had reasonably asked for copies of the driving licence summaries, but they hadnt 
been provided. And so she thought Watford was entitled by the policys terms and conditions 
to decline the earlier claim and cancel the policy. She saw evidence that Watford had sent 
the cancellation letters. And so she thought it hadnt acted incorrectly.
Mr O replied that he thought Watfords cancellations letters had been forged. As Mr O didnt 
accept the Investigators view, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr O felt frustrated that his policy was cancelled but he said he hadnt 
had notice of this. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
After the incident in March 2021, Watford wrote to Mr O asking for copies of the driving 
licence summaries for both drivers. It warned him that not providing these could lead to 
cancellation of his policy. 
I think this is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual or 
unreasonable. But it is significant, and I would expect it to be set out in the policy wording 
and in the summary or Key Facts document. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Os policy on page 30 of the policy booklet say:
We have the right to cancel your policy at any time by giving you seven days notice in 
writing where there is an exceptional or valid reason for doing so. We will send our 
cancellation letter to the latest address we have for you and will set out the reason for 
cancellation in our letter. Exceptional or valid reasons may include but are not limited to:
c. Where We do not receive evidence of Your No Claim Bonus, licences for all drivers 
named on Your Policy or any other valid requests to support the accuracy of information You 
gave Us and on which Your insurance Terms are based upon. 
And I can see that the cancellation terms are also set out in summary on page 3 the policy 
booklet. So I think they were sufficiently brought to Mr Os attention and I think Watford could 
reasonably rely upon them. I can also see that Mr O had a duty to cooperate with Watford in 
its handling of his claim, as his failing to do so was a further reason why his policy was 
cancelled. 
Mr O replied to Watfords request explaining that he was moving to a new house at the time 
and there might be a delay in providing this information. I can see that Watford sent him a 
reminder six weeks later. Then a further three weeks later, as there had been no response, 
Watford wrote to Mr O declining indemnity for the claim and giving him seven days notice of 
cancellation of the policy. 
Mr O said he had told Watford that he was abroad due to a bereavement. But I cant see 
evidence of this in its file. And Mr O said he didnt receive this notice letter or the cancellation 
confirmation. Mr O told us he didnt tell Watford his new address. I can see from screenshots 
that Watford sent the letters to the last address it had on file and it also emailed the notice of 
cancellation. And I cant reasonably hold Watford responsible for the postal service or Mr Os 
arrangements for his post to be redirected. 
So I think Watford was entitled by the policys terms and conditions to request copies of both 
drivers licence summaries to validate the policy. I think it gave Mr O fair opportunity to 
provide these and it explained the possible consequences if he didnt do so. Im satisfied that 
Watford sent the letters to Mr O as it said it had. And, as Im satisfied that Watford acted 
fairly and reasonably and in keeping with the policys terms and conditions, I cant say it did 
anything wrong in cancelling the policy and declining to indemnify Mr O for the March claim.  
Mr O later sent Watford his own driving licence summary, but not that for Mrs O. When Mr O 
was involved in a further incident in July 2021, he was told that the policy had been 
cancelled. And so, as there was no cover in place, Watford wasnt responsible for the claim. 
Again, I think this was fair and reasonable and I cant say that Watford acted incorrectly. 
When Mr O did provide Mrs Os licence summary, it was confirmed that she held a 
provisional licence. Watford then explained that if this had been disclosed when the policy 
had been taken out and then renewed, it would have declined to offer cover. I dont think this 
is now relevant as Watford had already cancelled the policy and declined the two claims. But 
Watford explained that this was one reason why it wouldnt consider reinstating the policy. In 
the circumstances, I think that was fair and reasonable. 
Mr O was unhappy that Watford retained his premiums. But I think Watford explained its 
cancellation charges, including its charge for his time on cover, in the renewal documents. 
So I cant say it was unfair or unreasonable for Watford to retain the premiums. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman