DRN-3974491
The complaint
Mr L complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) gave him 
a loan he couldnt afford to repay because in the eight months before the loan was 
approved, he had opened 15 new lines of credit. 
Mr L also says that Lending Stream assessed his application with the incorrect income 
figure. 
What happened
Mr L took one instalment loan from Lending Stream for £250 on 29 October 2019. Mr L was 
due to make six monthly repayments, with the largest repayment due to of £78.20. 
Lending Stream says the loan was fully repaid on 18 December 2019.
After Mr L complained Lending Stream issued its final response letter in March 2022 and it 
explained why it wasnt going to uphold his complaint. Unhappy with this response, Mr L 
referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Lending Stream made a 
reasonable decision to lend the loan based on the information it gathered about Mr L. She 
also said, even if Lending Stream had used the income Mr L says was correct at the time  
as detailed in his complaint form, the loan still looked affordable. 
Mr L said he didnt agree and called the adjudicator to discuss the outcome. He said at the 
time he had multiple outstanding payday loans and Lending Stream ought to have done a 
credit check. In addition, Mr L also provided copies of his bank statements as well as a full 
copy of his credit file from the three different credit reference agencies. 
The adjudicator thought about the additional information supplied by Mr L but it didnt change 
her mind about the outcome shed reached. 
Mr L also provided a copy of his tenancy agreement. Mr L says, based on his own 
calculations, at the time his monthly outgoings were £1,877.50. Mr L also says his credit file 
showed several missed payments and had Lending Stream checked his bank statements it 
wouldve seen he was overdrawn and direct debits were being rejected due to insufficient 
funds. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Mr L could afford to pay back the 
amount hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Stream s checks could have taken into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Ls income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr L. These factors 
include:
Mr L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr L. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Ls complaint as it only advanced one loan. 
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay the loan  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr L was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ls complaint. Having done so, Im satisfied Lending 
Stream carried out proportionate checks which showed it that Mr L could afford the 
repayments, Ive explained why below. 
Lending Stream has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr L for 
details of his income and expenditure. Mr Ls income has been recorded as being £3,400 per 
month. 
Mr L says that his income wasnt as high as he told Lending Stream, it was around £3,000 
per month. As part of his application Mr L told Lending Stream, he worked full time and 
provided details of his employer for whom hed worked at for just over a year.  
However, the amount of £3,400 was declared to Lending Stream as part of Mr Ls 
application and it didnt have any other data to suggest that this amount was in anyway 
inaccurate, so I do think Lending Stream was, at this point in the relationship, entitled to rely 
on what it was told by Mr L.  Even if Lending Stream did know that Mr Ls income was closer to £3,000 per month  to be 
clear it didnt, given the other data that Mr L provided, it still wouldve thought the loan was 
affordable for him. 
As part of the application to Lending Stream Mr L also declared that Normal Expenses of 
£300. On top of this, Lending Stream says Mr L also declared monthly credit commitments of 
£475. Lending Stream carried out independent checks on these figures and after doing so 
didnt add any further buffer to the amounts declared. This meant, it carried out an 
affordability assessment based on total monthly expenditure of £775. Which left £2,625 per 
month in disposable income in which Mr L needed to pay around £78 per month. Overall, the 
loan looked affordable.  
Before this loan was approved Lending Stream wouldve also carried out a credit search and 
the data is normally provided in a spreadsheet. However, while the summary was provided 
for Mr Ls complaint the sheet contained NA in each area. 
I made further enquires with Lending Stream about this to determine what this meant for Mr 
Ls case. I wanted to know for example whether a credit search was actually carried out or 
whether the results of the search were no longer available. Lending Stream has responded 
and told us.
Weve checked our records and see that the loan [number] was approved in October 
2019. Since it was approved in 2019, we dont have the data in relation to the credit 
checks in our records. 
Lending Streams response to me is clear, a credit search was carried out but the data in 
relation to the results it was provided are no longer available. So, Ive used the credit report 
p[provided by Mr L from the agency that Lending Stream wouldve used at the time to 
establish what it may have seen. 
However, I do need to be clear that although Lending Stream carried out a credit search 
there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Therefore, its entirely possible that the information Lending Stream received may not 
entirely reflect the information Mr L has been able to provide. There could be for a number of 
reasons for this, such as Lending Stream only asking for certain pieces of information. But 
what Lending Stream couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the 
information it received  if necessary.  Lending Stream would also have been entitled to rely 
on the results it was given. 
At the time Lending Stream wouldve likely asked the credit reference agency for the number 
of active credit accounts  and it wouldve been given a number for example 8. But it 
wouldnt have known the breakdown of those accounts such as whether they were credit 
cards, store cards or other loans. I obviously cant be sure what number of active accounts 
Lending Stream wouldve been told Mr L had at the time, but based on Mr Ls credit file he 
had at least 14 active accounts at the time the loan was granted. 
Lending Stream wouldnt have asked for a breakdown of what Mr Ls monthly repayments 
may have been. What Im trying to say here is that even though Lending Stream may have 
been given the overall total of Mr Ls indebtedness it wouldnt have been told what 
percentage of that was due in any given month. For example, the full balance on 
Mr Ls credit cards wouldnt have been due in one repayment. 
I would add that looking at the credit report  which Lending Stream didnt see - Mr Ls credit 
commitments were higher than the £475 that he declared. But Lending Stream may not have 
had the information to make that assumption at the time. Lending Stream wouldve likely have been told whether Mr L had had any defaults at the 
time of the credit search. Looking at the credit report, this has highlighted only one default, 
but this was recorded against a credit card in March 2020. Which was after the loan was 
approved. 
It is of course possible there were other defaults on Mr Ls credit file but these have since 
dropped off. But that would mean they wouldve been recorded more than six years ago and 
since the report was generated in 2022 that would mean records from 2016, which is still up 
to three years before the loan with Lending Stream was approved. So even if there were 
further defaults then I dont think I can fairly say Lending Stream ought to have considered 
them as they wouldve been too far removed from the loan start date to have given them any 
cause for concern. 
I can see some missed payments on Mr Ls credit file, this is important because 
Lending Stream typically makes enquires about delinquent accounts  so accounts that are 
in arrears but havent yet been defaulted. 
Looking at the full credit file, there are at least two accounts with missed payment markers 
which start from the month after the loan is granted  so on the credit card account that was 
defaulted (mentioned above) the first missed payment marker occurred in November 2019. 
However, there is a loan account where the first payment missed was in around 
August 2019 but then brought up to date, so it wouldnt have been flagged as a delinquent 
account when the credit search was carried out. 
The next missed payment on the account was in October 2019  so the month the loan was 
approved. I cant be sure this wouldve been reported to the credit reference agencies in time 
given there is usually a delay in reporting when missed payments occur. So, I cant fairly 
conclude Lending Stream wouldve been notified of that at the time. 
Overall, I dont know what Lending Stream actually saw in the credit checks it carried out. 
But having reconstructed what I can, I dont think given the limited information Lending 
Stream normally requests as part of its credit search it wouldve likely have led it conclude 
that either Mr L couldnt afford his repayments or have prompted it to make further enquires 
with Mr L. The results likely wouldve showed Lending Stream that Mr L could afford the 
loan.  
In addition, apart from the credit search, there wasnt anything else in the information that 
Ive seen that wouldve led Lending Stream to believe that it needed to go further with its 
checks  such as verifying the information Mr L had provided. This means that while I thank 
Mr L for providing his bank statements and details of his other expenditure at the time such, I 
dont think it wouldve been proportionate or appropriate for Lending Stream to review this 
information given the modest loan value and he was a new customer of it. 
In conclusion, it was early on in the lending relationship, Mr L had taken a modest loan over 
a relativity short term I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to have relied on the 
information Mr L provided. These checks showed it that Mr L had sufficient disposable 
income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. So, like the adjudicator Im 
not upholding Mr Ls complaint about the loan.
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman