DRN-1781979
 
The complaint
Ms L's complaint is about the transfer of her CREST shares to Interactive Investor Services 
Ltd ('II') in 2019. 
What happened
Ms L's enquiry to II, about the transfer, began in April when she sought to establish whether 
(or not) II provided a Crest Share Sponsor service. In this month, she presented her 
written query - within a secure message to II - which was headed "transfer of CREST shares 
to II". The message listed the relevant shares, confirmed they were held in digital form with 
the transferor firm, confirmed they were registered in her name and concluded with the 
following question - "Please let me know whether the transfer is possible and how much the 
fees for taking care of these shares?".
II responded on the same day, confirmed that the transfer was possible and confirmed that 
the only applicable fees  were the quarterly fees she was already paying for her II (nominee) 
account. Ms L sent II another secure message in May, thanking it for its response and 
instructing the transfer. The following day, also in May, she sent another secure message 
with a new title - "CREST sponsor" - in which she clarified that she sought to change her "... 
CREST sponsor from [the transferor firm] to II". In response, II gave her directions on how to 
transfer the shares into her II account. The transfer process began in late May and was duly 
completed.
Ms L learnt, around September, that her shares had been converted from their previous 
digital CREST status to nominee status in her nominee II account. She complained about 
this on two main grounds - that she had been misled by II to believe it could provide, for the 
shares, the CREST share sponsor service she sought; and that II had converted her shares 
without her consent to do so.
II considered that Ms L's request was made with direct and express reference  to her II 
account, which was a nominee account; that she gave no indication that the shares were to 
be held in a CREST account; hence the transfer and conversion of the shares to her II 
nominee account. However, it upheld  her complaint because it conceded that it received a 
secure message on 22 May which made clear that the shares were being transferred from a 
CREST account and were to be transferred into a corresponding CREST account with II; 
that II should have responded to this by taking no further transfer action and by notifying her 
that it did not offer a CREST account service; and it apologised (with £30) for not doing this.
To redress the matter, II's complaint response letter also offered the following:
1. A transfer back to Ms L's CREST account with the transferor firm. II said it had confirmed 
with the transferor firm that this would be possible if the account was still open and so long 
as Ms L paid the annual account fee. II also said it shared this option with Ms L, but she 
declined it.2. II said it discussed with Ms L other options - transfer of the shares to another firm that 
provided CREST accounts; sending her the share certificates; or leaving the shares in her II 
nominee account. The letter invited her to confirm how she wished to proceed.
Ms L's response to the letter did not address any of these options. In the main, it noted that 
her complaint had been upheld and it corrected II's chronology of the matter, but it objected 
to II's failure to concede that she had been misled in the matter (which Ms L considered, and 
continues to consider, as her core complaint).
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He did not consider that II should do anymore that it has already done. He did not 
consider that the nature of Ms L's transfer enquiry was clear enough to avoid II 
misunderstanding her need for a CREST account. Ms L disagreed with this outcome and 
highlighted the contents of her secure messages to II and the note she attached to the 
transfer application - all, she asserted, clarifying that she sought a CREST account. The 
matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I consider that II has 
addressed the complaint reasonably and I do not consider it should have to do any more.
I understand Ms L's pursuit for an acknowledgement that she was misled. It cannot 
reasonably be ignored that her secure message (as quoted above) introduced a new title 
that made reference to a CREST 'sponsor" - which, as she has argued, sufficiently conveyed 
to II that she wanted it to sponsor a CREST account for her. The same applies to the note 
she attached to the transfer application - it cannot reasonably be ignored that the note made 
the same reference and, importantly, asked II to contact her if she had completed the wrong 
application for the sponsor purpose.
However, it also cannot reasonably be ignored that II concedes receipt of the secure 
message - though I note, and as Ms L also noted in her response, it appears to have 
misquoted the date of the message - and it accepts that it was wrong to continue with the 
transfer thereafter when it ought to have stopped the transfer and informed Ms L that it did 
not provide CREST accounts. 
I am persuaded that II has conceded what it ought to concede. I understand Ms L's distinct 
argument about being misled but I do not consider it has been established or that it is a 
meaningful argument in the context of the underlying transfer matter. The investigator 
suggested that II appears to have been mistaken in the matter. This does not mean it was 
not culpable for any such mistake. It is possible that II did not pay proper attention to Ms L's 
query - whereby it focused on the isolated matter of 'transfer' and perhaps less so on the 
type of transfer being sought.
However, I consider it unlikely that II would have intentionally misled Ms L. If it did so, a 
complaint would have been foreseeable to it - that is, knowing that it did not provide a 
CREST account it was arguably inevitable that Ms L  would eventually discover this and 
complain about a transfer (type) she did not want. On balance, I am not persuaded that II 
would have wilfully created such circumstances for a complaint so it does not appear to have 
intentionally misled Ms L.
In any event, II has conceded the complaint. This is key and it calls into question how 
meaningful the argument about Ms L being misled is. II offered an apology (with a financial 
gesture in support) and it offered options for Ms L to redress the matter at the time. It is not clear what happened (around September 2019, when II's complaint response was sent) in 
terms of the redress options, but I consider that II made reasonable offers in this respect. 
Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded to uphold Ms L's complaint and, as I said 
above, I do not consider II should have to do any more than it has already done.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms L's complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or reject my decision 
before 13 June 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman