DRN-4466427
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice given by Truly Independent Limited (Truly) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Js employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr J approached Truly in around August 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
Truly completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Js circumstances and objectives. 
It also carried out an assessment of Mr Js attitude to risk, which it said was balanced. 
Mr J had received a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the BSPS in September 
2017. This showed that he had over 37 years service in the BSPS. He was entitled to a 
pension of about £28,160 at the date of leaving the scheme. The CETV was about 
£690,000.  
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
On 3 November 2017, Truly advised Mr J to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and 
invest the proceeds in a fund that met his attitude to risk. The suitability report said the 
reasons for this recommendation were that he was thinking about retiring early, he wanted 
some cash for holidays, he wanted to leave the fund to his wife and he wanted control of his 
fund as he didnt trust his employer or the DB scheme. 
Mr J complained in 2022 to Truly about the suitability of the transfer advice. He had been 
contacted by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, (FCA), and had 
received information to the effect that the DB transfer may not have been in his best 
interests. 
Truly didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It said that the advice Mr J had received was in his best 
interests and was suitable for him. 
Mr J referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An Investigator upheld the 
complaint as he didnt think the advice was suitable for Mr J, he thought that Truly should 
perform a loss assessment to determine if he had suffered a loss. Our Investigator also said 
Truly should pay him £300 for any distress he suffered due to the advice. 
Truly disagreed, it didnt provide any detail about why this was, but it asked that an 
ombudsman consider the complaint. The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their 
opinion, so both parties were informed that an ombudsman would consider the complaint in 
due course.  
After this the regulator developed, and now provides access to, a BSPS specific redress 
calculator. Both parties to the complaint have been informed that Im likely to award 
compensation based on this.
However, in August 2023, Truly contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service to say that it 
now accepted what the Investigator had said and that it didnt want an ombudsman to 
consider the merits of the complaint. It said it was prepared to calculate and offer 
compensation on the same basis as the Investigator had recommended. The complaint was 
closed at this point. 
Later on, Truly wrote to Mr J and said it had carried out a loss assessment using the FCAs 
redress calculator and provided detail about the calculations. It said, having done so, the 
calculation showed that Mr J had not incurred a financial loss and so he was not owed any 
redress. However, Truly said that it would pay £300 for any distress or inconvenience 
suffered by Mr J. A copy of this correspondence was provided to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
Mr J has seen a copy of the calculations and a copy has been provided to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator has looked at the calculations and told both parties 
that they think the calculations have been performed correctly.  
Mr J hasnt accepted the offer made and has also said that he thinks the compensation may 
have been higher if Truly had calculated it earlier, so this may have impacted him negatively. 
So, as no agreement has been reached, Im issuing a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above, Truly has recently informed us that they are willing to accept the 
Investigators view that the advice wasnt right for Mr J. So, I dont think I need to consider 
this further. Ill focus in this decision on the redress method.
Putting things right
The aim is to put Mr J back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. Truly carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS 
calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the 
circumstances. The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by Truly which are personal to Mr J. These 
include Mr Js personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the 
scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if he had 
not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Js case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. Im satisfied that Mr J 
has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension. I think the calculation carried out 
by Truly is appropriate in the circumstances and no redress for financial losses is due to Mr 
J. 
Mr J thinks that the calculation should have been performed at an earlier time but the 
regulator has set out what it considers the appropriate method of compensation to be in 
instances of unsuitable pension transfer advice. And this requires Truly to use the 
assumptions from the same financial quarter in which the calculation is carried out. I 
appreciate that the assumptions used in the redress calculation have changed significantly 
over the last 12 months, which has had an impact on the calculation. But Im satisfied the 
regulators redress method puts Mr J back, as far as possible, into the position he would 
have been in had he not transferred his BSPS benefits. And Im conscious that the way the 
regulator requires firms to calculate redress is consistent with the approach a court would 
take.
Truly has still offered to pay £300 as recommended by our Investigator for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him. While the loss assessment has determined that 
Mr J hasnt been financially disadvantaged by the unsuitable advice, I accept that finding out 
the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice  would have caused him some 
concern. Mr J has said that he has been worried about the possible impact of the transfer on 
his retirement and he has thought about this a lot. So, I think Trulys agreement to pay Mr J 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Truly Independent Limited to pay Mr J a sum of £300 for 
the worry he says this matter has caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman