DRN-2868840
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd 
(WFM) to transfer the benefits he held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). The BSPS was a defined benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme. He says the advice was unsuitable for him.
Mr R is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr R.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr R with a summary of the transfer value of his 
scheme benefits. This said his benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£290,872.12. And in October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose 
letter which gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move 
to BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. 
Mr R approached WFM in October 2017 to discuss his BSPS pension. 
WFM completed a fact-find, on 20 October 2017, to gather information about Mr Rs 
circumstances and objectives. It noted he was 42, married with children, in good health and 
employed full time. His monthly income exceeded his outgoings. He had a mortgage, but it 
was noted that this was due to be repaid by age 55.
In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr R was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution pension scheme. He and his employer were making combined 
contributions to this equivalent to 16% of his salary. And it was noted Mr R may increase his 
contributions to that scheme, in the future. That pension arrangement had only recently 
begun and the BSPS benefits made up the significant majority of his retirement provisions at 
that time.
It was recorded that Mr R hoped to retire at age 57 and expected to need an income of 
approximately £20,000 per year in retirement. He didnt anticipate having a need for a tax-
free cash (TFC) lump sum. And WFM said Mr R had already decided he intended to 
transfer his benefits away from the BSPS and understood hed already spoken to several 
other independent financial advisers.
WFM also carried out an assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk (ATR), which it deemed to be 
moderately adventurous. 
On 25 October 2017, WFM advised Mr R to transfer his pension benefits from the BSPS into 
a SIPP. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that the BSPS 
was in deficit and Mr R had been offered a competitive CETV. WFMs analysis showed that 
the pre and post retirement death benefits following a transfer would be greater  something 
WFM said was really important to Mr R  and the lump sum nature of these benefits better 
suited his circumstances. The flexibility in terms of how benefits could be drawn best suited 
Mr Rs needs and circumstances. And the SIPP would not apply penalties if Mr R took 
benefits from age 57, whereas the BSPS, PPF and the BSPS2 would. So, WFM felt a 
transfer was suitable. It recommended a specific SIPP provider and that Mr R use a 
managed portfolio service and invest in three specific wrappers which WFM felt best 
matched his ATR. WFM would also provide ongoing servicing of the pension, at a cost.
Mr R complained in 2019 to WFM about the suitability of the transfer advice. In summary he 
said he didnt think WFM had properly considered his circumstances and hadnt made the 
nature of the benefits, he was giving up by transferring, clear  particularly bearing in mind 
his lack of investment experience. So overall, he didnt think the recommendation was 
suitable.
WFM didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said it had adhered to the regulations binding it when 
advising Mr R and that the advice was suitable as it was based on what Mr R had told it and 
best met his objectives and requirements. WFM reiterated Mr R had already decided to 
transfer his pension from the BSPS prior to contacting WFM and had already spoken to 
several other advisers. WFM said Mr R was made fully aware of the benefits hed be giving 
up and the risks. It said Mr R clearly set out an intention to retire at age 57, wanted the 
flexibility to be able to draw his benefits without incurring a penalty for early retirement and 
wanted to ensure that the pension was passed to his dependents in the event of his death. 
And WFM said Mr R didnt think the PPF or the BSPS2 wouldve allowed him to meet these 
objectives, as they were too restrictive.
Mr R referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and required 
WFM to pay compensation and £250 for the distress caused. He didnt necessarily agree 
with WFM that Mr R had a moderately adventurous attitude to risk. But in any event, the 
Investigator thought Mr R was always unlikely to improve on the guaranteed benefits he 
wouldve received under the PPF or the BSPS2 by transferring. And he didnt think the other 
objectives Mr R had expressed an interest in were urgent or justified the likely reduction in 
his pension benefits. So, he didnt think Mr R shouldve been advised to transfer and felt he 
most likely wouldve subsequently joined the BSPS2.
WFM did not accept our Investigators opinion, so the complaint was referred to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of WFM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, WFM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Rs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
WFM instructed a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report be produced  as obtaining a TVAS 
was required by the regulator. The purpose of which was to indicate the likelihood of Mr R 
being able to match or exceed the guaranteed benefits he was entitled to under his DB 
scheme by transferring his pension. And the TVAS report included a calculation of how 
much a new pension would need to grow by each year in order to allow Mr R to purchase 
equivalent benefits to those the DB scheme guaranteed (the critical yield). 
The critical yield figures appear to have been based on matching Mr Rs existing scheme, 
the BSPS, based on the revaluation assumptions noted. But Mr R didnt have the option to 
remain in the BSPS as it was. He either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the 
BSPS to the PPF. While critical yield figures were calculated in respect of moving to the 
PPF, which was appropriate, there was no comparison to the BSPS2. And I think there 
shouldve been. By the time the advice was given here, sufficient details around the BSPS2 
had been provided for a meaningful comparison to have been made. So, the TVAS doesnt 
provide as useful a comparison as it ideally should have. But nevertheless, Ive considered 
the report when looking at whether the transfer was in Mr Rs interests from a financial 
viability perspective.
The TVAS said that the critical yield required to match the full pension the BSPS wouldve 
provided at age 65 was 6.28%. To match the maximum TFC and reduced pension the BSPS 
wouldve provided at age 65, the critical yield was 5.04%.
To match the full pension that the PPF would provide at age 65 (estimated to begin at 
£16,740.87 per year) the critical yield was 4.42%. Or to match the maximum TFC the PPF would provide at age 65 (£88,027.94) and the reduced starting annual pension (£13,204.19) 
the critical yield was 4.11%.
Critical yields were also calculated on the basis of retiring at age 57  which WFM says Mr R 
wanted to do. To match the full pension the BSPS wouldve provided at age 57 the critical 
yield was 8.1%. And to match the TFC and reduced pension the BSPS couldve given at that 
age the critical yield was 6.26%.
To match the full pension the PPF wouldve provided from age 57 (starting at £12,702.18 per 
year) the critical yield was 6.37%. Or to match the TFC (£70,248.98) and reduced starting 
pension (£10,537.34) the PPF wouldve provided at age 57, the critical yield was 5.97%.
Again, the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits were not calculated  although I 
think they should have been. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely 
decreased the critical yields somewhat in comparison to the BSPS. But in my experience, 
they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits and are likely to have 
been closer to those of the BSPS benefits, particularly at age 65.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.5% per year for 22 years to retirement (which would be the case if Mr R retired at age 
65). And for 14 years to retirement  which would be the case if he retired at age 57  the 
discount rate was 4.2%. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also 
remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, 
the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, the 
moderately adventurous attitude to risk that WFM suggested Mr R had and also the term to 
retirement. There would be little point in Mr R giving up the guarantees available to him only 
to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the DB scheme. But here, I think for 
retiring at age 57, which WFM says was Mr Rs main objective, he was always likely to 
receive benefits of a lower overall value than those he wouldve been due under the BSPS2 
or the PPF as a result of transferring and investing in line with his recorded attitude to risk. 
And for retiring at age 65, I think the same is true and he was unlikely to improve on the 
guaranteed benefits hed have been due.
So, from a financially viability perspective, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Rs best 
interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits which WFM has suggested is the case here. Ive considered 
this below.
Flexibility and income needs
WFM says Mr R was clear that he intended to retire at age 57 and that he expected to need 
£20,000 per year in retirement. So, his circumstances meant he required flexibility to take his 
pension benefits early, take more from his private pension arrangements in the early years and then reduce this when he became entitled to receive the state pension at age 67. And 
transferring was also the only way to take benefits from age 57 without incurring penalties.
Mr R was 42 at the time of the advice. There were still over 12 years until he could think 
about accessing his pension benefits at all and over 14 years until WFM says he intended to 
do so. I dont doubt he was interested in retiring early if possible  I think most consumers 
would be when asked. And he may even have tentatively planned to do so. But I dont think 
those plans were finalised and couldve been subject to change, just as his circumstances 
and needs may have altered. 
Mr R also had the option of taking his pension benefits from age 57 under either the PPF or 
the BSPS2. So, he didnt need to transfer in order to access his benefits from that age.
It is true that if Mr R drew his benefits at age 57 under either the PPF or the BSPS2 the 
amount he could take would be subject to actuarial reduction. But an actuarial reduction is 
intended to reflect the pension benefits being paid for longer. The starting monetary amount 
when compared with the full pension payable from age 65  the normal scheme retirement 
age  wouldve been less. But by retiring at age 57 Mr R wouldve been receiving his 
pension for eight years longer. It was a trade-off, rather than a penalty. Yet WFM made 
several references to this being a penalty, which I dont think gave an appropriately balanced 
explanation. 
I also dont think Mr R needed to transfer, in order to meet his retirement income needs. 
WFM has said he needed to be able to take more from his private pension to begin with than 
he couldve done under the more rigid structure of the DB scheme in order to meet this goal. 
But I dont agree this was the only way of doing this.
Again, the TVAS didnt include any calculations of what Mr R wouldve been entitled to under 
the BSPS2. But it did say that from age 57, under the PPF it was estimated Mr R could draw 
a full pension of £12,702.18 per year or take £70,248.98 TFC and a reduced starting 
pension of £10,537.34 per year. The yearly pensions wouldve escalated while in payment. 
Neither of these starting yearly pension amounts, at age 57, wouldve achieved the annual 
income of £20,000 Mr R indicated he expected to need. But he had options in how he could 
take the DB scheme benefits and over 14 years until theyd be drawn, in which time he could 
continue to build his other retirement provisions.
Mr R indicated he didnt think hed have a need for TFC. Which would suggest he mayve 
been more inclined to take the full pension available under the DB scheme  which gave a 
higher starting annual pension income. But he couldve taken the lump sum and the lower 
starting pension and used the TFC to supplement his pension income in the initial years of 
retirement. And again, the annual pension would still have increased.
Mr R was also a member of the new defined contribution pension scheme his employer had 
put in place after the BSPS had closed. And, I havent seen any suggestion he intended to 
change employer prior to retirement. He and his employers contributions to this new 
scheme were equivalent to 16% of his salary. And based on the information recorded in the 
fact-find, before even accounting for increases in salary, investment growth or Mr R 
increasing his contributions, by age 57 this fund was likely to be worth in excess of 
£100,000. This fund couldve also potentially been used flexibly from age 57, to supplement 
the income from the DB scheme. And I think this wouldve allowed him to meet his income 
objectives if he did retire at age 57 until his state pension became payable. At which point 
the state pension and the DB scheme pension, which wouldve escalated in the intervening 
period, wouldve met his income needs.
And the DB scheme benefits, regardless of which point they started, were guaranteed for life. Whereas the amount he could take under a flexible personal pension was entirely 
dependent on the sum remaining in the plan. 
Taking all of this into account, given the time until he was intending to retire, I dont think 
Mr Rs plans or needs were known and certainly were not finalised. So, I dont think he had a 
need for flexibility at the time of the advice. Nor do I think this was the only option for 
meeting the objectives he mayve been considering at the time.  And I dont think it was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr R to give up his guaranteed benefits when he did. If Mr R 
later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme I understand that this wouldve been 
allowed under BSPS2. And he couldve done so closer to retirement. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr R. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr R might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr R about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think WFM explored to what extent 
Mr R was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr R 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme couldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr R predeceased her. WFM says Mr R didnt feel this was as valuable as 
the potential to leave a lump sum. But the spouses pension was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. And while the CETV figure would no doubt have 
appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, the sum remaining on death following a 
transfer, as well as being dependent on investment performance, wouldve also been 
reduced by any income Mr R drew in his lifetime. 
It was noted that Mr R had concerns about his potential life expectancy, as there has been a 
history of early death in his family. The indication being he may not have drawn benefits for 
that long before he died. But Mr R was noted as being in good health. Him not reaching his 
life expectancy was only a possibility and it was also possible that he would exceed this, in 
which case Mr Rs pension would need to last longer. If Mr R transferred out of the DB 
scheme he would be relying on investment returns to ensure sufficient capital remained in 
the personal pension to provide the income he needed and any death benefits. 
The TVAS report also said that if Mr R drew an income equivalent to that hed have been 
entitled to under the BSPS from either age 65 or age 57, assuming a medium rate of return 
was achieved, Mr Rs pension fund would run out by age 83. So, given the apparent 
intention was for him to in fact draw a higher income in the early years of retirement from the 
personal pension, it appears likely that the value of the pension wouldve been significantly 
depleted by the time that it came to be passed on to his beneficiaries. So, the pension may 
not have provided the legacy that Mr R may have thought it would.
The fact find also recorded that Mr R had death in service benefits from his current 
employer, which appear to me to have been a more appropriate method by which to leave a 
legacy to his family. The new defined contribution pension he was contributing to also 
provided alternative forms of death benefit to his DB scheme. And, if Mr R didnt think these 
were enough and genuinely wanted to leave a further legacy for his family, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think life insurance shouldve been considered. But I cant see that this was discussed.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I dont doubt Mr R, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His 
employer had been consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And there appears 
to have been a general lack of optimism. I also think Mr R mayve been concerned his 
pension would end up in the PPF and hed likely heard negative things about the PPF. Its 
also quite possible that Mr R was leaning towards transferring because of these concerns. 
However, it was WFMs obligation to give Mr R an objective picture and recommend what 
was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. The Time to Choose paperwork was clear that opting into that scheme was 
an option  so, Im satisfied it was envisaged that this would go ahead. And I think this 
shouldve alleviated some of Mr Rs concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that WFM shouldve 
reassured Mr R that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. He 
didnt have firm retirement plans. But, as Ive explained, it appears likely his other provisions, 
in conjunction with the pension payable under the PPF, wouldve provided what he needed 
in retirement. Although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, it would still have 
provided a guaranteed income for the rest of his life that was not subject to any investment 
risk. By transferring he was taking on additional risk and, as Ive explained, I think he was 
likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value as a result of transferring. So, I dont think 
that the concerns Mr R mayve had when talking to WFM shouldve led to it recommending 
he transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr R. But WFM 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income (either through the BSPS2 or the PPF). By 
transferring, Mr R was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there 
were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. I dont 
think he needed flexibility to achieve his objectives and I certainly dont think a decision on 
this needed to be made at the time it was  given how long he had until his retirement. And I 
also dont think the alternate death benefits he could potentially receive made transferring in 
his best interests. So, I dont think he shouldve been advised to transfer.  Mr R had over 14 years before he reached the age at which hed indicated he might like to 
retire. But his plans were in any event unconfirmed. I don't think that it would've been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF. I say this because while it is true the PPF wouldve provided a more favourable 
reduction for very early retirement, because his plans were not confirmed, there was no 
guarantee the reduction he accepted would end up being offset by this more favourable 
reduction. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr R wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of 
the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think if 
WFM had correctly advised him against transferring Mr R wouldve opted into the BSPS2. 
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr R would've gone ahead anyway, against WFM's 
advice. WFM says Mr R had already spoken to several other independent financial advisers 
before he contacted it. And it says he had already decided to transfer.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr R wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against WFMs advice. Even if Mr R had already spoken 
to several other firms, the fact that he asked WFM for its advice indicates to me he hadnt 
made a decision, otherwise he wouldve had no need for seeking further advice.
From the information Ive seen Mr R was an inexperienced investor and this pension 
accounted for the majority of his retirement provision, meaning he had a low capacity for 
loss. As Ive already explained, I dont doubt he was concerned about what may happen to 
his pension, particularly given the consultation that had been ongoing. And he mightve 
thought that transferring was a good idea. But if WFM had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve 
accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Rs concerns about the consultation, or the potential appeal of 
alternative death benefits and flexibility were so great that he wouldve insisted on the 
transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was 
paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If WFM had explained 
that Mr R could meet his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, either through 
the BSPS2 or the PPF, meaning he didnt need to be overly concerned about the prospect of 
the pension entering the PPF, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think 
Mr R would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think WFM should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that WFM also pay Mr R £250 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr R has been caused distress and concern by finding 
out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended in respect of this is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for WFMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, if he'd been given suitable advice. So, WFM 
should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance - https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr R whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect. He didnt make 
a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for the 
new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr R. 
WFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr R has not yet retired, and I understand he has no plans to do so at present. 
So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
WFM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Rs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date WFM receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes WFM to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect WFM to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and / or guidance in any event.
In addition, WFM should pay Mr R £250 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and / or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair 
compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
Y Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Wealthmasters 
Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd pays Mr R the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Wealthmasters 
Financial Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 Ben Stoker
Ombudsman