DRN-2898023
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct, wont reimburse him the 
cost of a purchase he returned to an overseas vendor.
What happened
Mr C made a purchase online from an overseas vendor using his First Direct debit card. Mr 
C believed that the cost of the purchase would be around £30, but the overseas vendor 
debited approximately £180 from Mr Cs First Direct account. Furthermore, when the items 
arrived from overseas, they incurred a customs charge of approximately £70. Mr C wasnt 
willing to pay this additional charge, so the items were returned to the overseas vendor.
Mr C asked First Direct to reclaim the money that hed been charged for the items, but First 
Direct explained that they were unable to do so. Mr C wasnt happy about this, so he made a 
complaint.
First Direct looked at Mr Cs complaint, but they noted that Mr C had paid for the items using 
his Visa debit card, and that the transaction didnt meet the criteria necessary to permit a 
chargeback claim via Visa. So, they didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with First Directs response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that the 
transaction didnt meet the criteria for a chargeback claim to be raised, and they noted that 
Mr C had been charged an amount by the overseas vendor that was in accordance with the 
advertised product that hed purchased. So, our investigator also didnt uphold this 
complaint.
Mr C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that it came as a surprise to Mr C to discover that the purchase which he thought 
would only cost him £30 cost more than £180. However, having reviewed the sales advert 
that Mr C provided, it appears that its likely that this was a misunderstanding on Mr Cs part. 
And I say this because the advert is for a pack of six items, and each item is advertised as 
costing around £30 each. 
Furthermore, its understandable that Mr C might have been further dismayed to learn that, 
having arrived into the UK from abroad, the items couldnt be delivered to his address 
because a customs import charge had been applied which needed to be paid before the 
items would be released. Mr C wasnt willing to meet this additional cost, and so he elected 
to return the items back to the overseas vendor.
Having done so, I can appreciate why Mr C might wish to recover the cost of the items that 
had been returned. But it doesnt follow from this that First Direct were the appropriate 
conduit through which to seek to recover this money, or that he is entitled to a 
reimbursement from First Direct.
First Direct did investigate the possibility of recovering the funds via a chargeback claim but 
concluded that this wasnt possible because the transaction didnt meet the criteria 
necessary to enable a chargeback claim to be successful. 
Its important to clarify here what a chargeback claim is: Its a process by which some 
disputes are resolved between the card issuer, in this case First Direct, and merchants, in 
this case the overseas vendor, under the relevant card scheme rules. 
 
These rules are set by the card provider  in this case Visa - whose symbol is on the card. 
Visa has an agreement with banks and building societies as to how its cards are used, and 
this agreement covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made. The rules are quite 
strict, and First Direct doesn't have the power to change them. 
 
Its also important to note that a chargeback claim isnt a right that a customer has  its a 
voluntary act, and this means that First Direct werent required to ask Visa for the transaction 
to be reversed via the chargeback scheme, although it is considered good practice for them 
to do so, if they think the chargeback claim is likely to succeed. 
But in this instance First Direct didnt think that the chargeback claim was likely to succeed, 
and this was because the transaction didnt meet the criteria set by Visa to enable the claim 
to be successful. And one reason for this was that Mr C did receive the items purchased  
albeit they were held by UK customs awaiting the payment of the import charge. Additionally, 
the charge that Mr C incurred for the items was consistent with the sales advertisement and 
so couldnt be considered as being unfair or unreasonable. 
Having reviewed the information available to me regarding this point, Id find it difficult to 
conclude that First Direct made any form of error here in declining the chargeback request 
sought by Mr C on the basis that the claim didnt meet the necessary criteria and so was 
unlikely to succeed.
Its also difficult for me to conclude that Mr C should be reimbursed the money by First Direct 
themselves, and this is for the reasons already explained above  specifically, that the 
charge of the items appears to have been correct, and that Mr C received the items but 
returned them voluntarily to the overseas vendor after being unwilling to pay the additional 
import charge.
Of course, this leaves Mr C in the position of having paid for items which he hasnt received, 
and I would encourage Mr C to establish contact with the overseas vendor to seek a 
reimbursement via that channel.
But, in the context of this complaint, and for the reasons Ive explained above, I cant 
conclude that it would be fair or reasonable for me to instruct First Direct to reimburse Mr C 
as he would like here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint against 
First Direct or instructing them to take any further action regarding this matter.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr C was wanting here, but I hope that he can 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman