DRN-2380327
The complaint
Ms T complains that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) has declined a claim made under her 
building warranty and that there were delays in the handling of the claim.
Any reference to Lloyds in this decision includes its appointed agents.
What happened
In March 2019 Ms T made a claim under her new-build warranty, for damage to her flat 
caused by a leak in her roof. 
Lloyds said that the roof was a common part of the housing unit in which Ms T owned a flat. 
And that as there were four flats in the housing unit, all owned by four different freeholders, 
this meant all four freeholders were responsible for the roof repair. It said itd need to take 
four excesses in total under each of the policies  which would mean the cost of the 
combined excesses would exceed the cost of repair. Lloyds declined the claim on this basis 
 and so Ms T complained about its decision and for the time it took Lloyds to respond to 
her claim.
Lloyds considered the complaint but stood by its decision about the claim. It did however 
accept that it couldve been more proactive in its handling of the claim and that it couldve 
communicated more clearly. It offered Ms T £150 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Ms T referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the issues and recommended Lloyds reconsider the claim, requiring only one 
excess. Lloyds disagreed with our investigators assessment and so the complaint has 
come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms T is claiming for the damage to her own flat, and this is covered under section 3.3 of
the warranty, which says:
STRUCTURAL INSURANCE
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder against all claims discovered and notified
to the Underwriter during the Structural Insurance Period in respect of:
1) The cost of complete or partial rebuilding or rectifying work to the Housing Unit
which has been affected by major damage.
Major damage is defined in the policy as:
MAJOR DAMAGE
a) Destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for which a
Certificate of Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter.
For the purpose of this Policy the definition of major damage is deemed to include any
physical loss, destruction or damage to the Housing Unit caused by contamination or
pollution as a direct consequence of a defect in design, workmanship, materials or
components of the Structure of the Housing Unit.
Ive considered the evidence presented by both parties which tells me about the damage 
thats occurred. All the evidence Ive seen leads me to the conclusion that the defect in this 
case is in a common part of the property, namely the roof  but that the defect is only 
causing damage to one flat, Ms Ts. Lloyds has said that if there is damage to a common 
part then the consequent cost of repairing the damage to Ms Ts flat should also be shared 
among all the flat owners. It believes that as the total cost of the repair is less than the 
combined excesses, the claim cannot be accepted. 
I dont think this is a fair approach. Im satisfied from my consideration of the policy and the 
evidence presented that there is a defect covered under the warranty. If the defect in the roof 
was causing major damage to the roof or to any other common part, then all the freeholders 
would need to bring claims for their proportionate share of repairing the common part 
damage (those claims may not then be accepted if the excesses exceeded the cost of 
repairs). So I understand the point Lloyds is making about the combined excesses 
exceeding the claim value here, but I consider it unreasonable for all the excesses to be 
applicable when the damage has only affected one flat. In the circumstances and as Ms T is 
liable for the damage to her own flat, Lloyds should deal with the claim for damage and only 
apply one excess. And Ms Ts total claim value should be the cost of carrying out a lasting 
and effective repair  which I think in this case will include carrying out repairs both to the 
common part and to Ms Ts flat. If the cost of the repairs then exceeds Ms Ts individual 
excess, then the claim should succeed.
I say this because Lloyds cannot possibly repair the damage without resolving the cause of 
the water ingress. So in order to carry out a lasting and effective repair Lloyds would have to 
repair the defect with the common part, as clearly without repairing the defect in the roof the 
leak would carry on causing damage to Ms Ts flat.
Lloyds disagrees and has also pointed out that this service has previously agreed with it 
when considering these sorts of cases. However, that is not our current position and in this 
case I consider it fair and reasonable for Lloyds to reconsider the claim, for the reasons Ive 
explained.  
Ms T is also unhappy about the delays in Lloyds handling of the claim. Shes said there was 
a lack of clear explanation of the claims process, that it took far too long for Lloyds to tell her 
that thered need to be four claims made, and that she was accused of fraud.
Ive considered everything Ms T has said. Lloyds has offered £150 in compensation for its 
poor communication throughout the process and for the delays caused. I think this is a 
reasonable amount and reflects the level of service Ms T received from Lloyds and the slight 
delays that occurred. So I think Lloyds has done enough to compensate Ms T for the trouble 
and upset caused to her due to its handling of the claim. 
I havent seen any evidence of an allegation of fraud being made against Ms T. I note there 
was a conversation and some confusion over the total number of properties in the housing unit  which led to Lloyds asking Ms T for further evidence, but Im not persuaded that 
anyone at any time has accused Ms T of being dishonest.
Putting things right
Lloyds must reconsider the claim under only Ms Ts policy and therefore apply only one 
excess. 
It should determine the value of Ms Ts claim by calculating the cost of an effective and 
lasting repair to her flat (which will include putting right the cause of the water ingress) and if 
the total cost exceeds her excess, it should deal with Ms Ts claim on that basis.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I require Society of Lloyds to put things right as Ive set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman