DRN-2290536
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs L payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about monthly premium PPI policies taken out with a mortgage in 1987, 
and with a new mortgage in 1988. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs L have said they were told would not be given a mortgage unless they took PPI. 
I must assess things on the balance of probabilities  that is, what is more likely than not to 
have happened. But the person bringing the complaint needs to present reasonable 
evidence on which I can base that decision. It would be unfair to make Bank of Scotland 
prove it didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago.
The sale of the PPI took place over 30 years ago and, not surprising, none of the important 
original documents from the time are now available. And, given that this was so many years 
ago, I dont know how much I can fairly rely on Mr and Mrs Ls recollections of what was 
said. 
I realise it would be very difficult for Mr and Mrs L to now find extra evidence to prove what 
they are saying. But, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was mis-sold in this 
way. 
As I explain below, Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have 
been mis-sold  but having done so, I dont think they apply. 
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L, and this means we would 
judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Ls particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ls situation at the 
time: 
Its likely Mr and Mrs L were eligible for the policy (if they hadnt been eligible then 
they wouldnt have been able to claim). 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr and Mrs L received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mr and Mrs L would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mr and 
Mrs L in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long term 
sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr and Mrs 
L would have been affected by any of these
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. In normal circumstances, it would then be up to Mr and Mrs L to decide whether 
they wanted to accept the recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether Mr and Mrs L took the PPI. I say this because the potential benefits were 
greater than (and in addition to) Mr and Mrs Ls sick pay and savings, and the cost wasnt 
significantly high.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs L would have been affected by any of these. And theyd be 
paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation 
changed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman