DRN-3662471
The complaint
Mrs M complains about HDI for the settlement it has offered in relation to a claim following a 
leak. She wants HDI to cover the rent up until she was able to re-let the property, the loss in 
rent due to having to re-let at a lower rent, and the costs she incurred in using a letting agent 
to find new tenants.
What happened
Mrs M is a landlord and she let her property to tenants in an agreement which ran from 
November 2019 to November 2020. She held landlord insurance with HDI.
Around 12 July 2020 a leak manifested at the property. Mrs M contacted the water board 
and learned that the leak was within the boundaries of her property.
She alerted HDI of the leak, but due to urgency she directly instructed contractors to repair 
the leak.
The water to the property was turned off for a period.
Mrs M submitted a claim to HDI on 22 July 2020.
Mrs Ms tenants gave notice on the property and did not want to accept alternative 
accommodation as they were going to be leaving. Mrs M says that they gave two months 
notice on 16 July 2020. The tenants left the property around the end of July 2020 and paid 
rent up to 6 August 2020.
Mrs M was not able to immediately re-let the property. She engaged a letting agent and 
reduced the rent by £200 per month. She then re-let the property in November 2020. She 
incurred costs from the letting agent of around £2200.00.  
HDI initially offered to settle Mrs Ms claim on the basis of lost rent up until 6 August 2020. 
Mrs M complained to HDI. She felt that she had lost rent up until the property was re-let in 
November 2020.
HDI responded, partially upholding her complaint, and offering a further day of rent, as it 
considered that the property works were complete by 7 August 2020.
Mrs M and HDI continued to correspond, and HDI later agreed to pay Mrs M lost rent up to
the 16 September 2020, which was when Mrs M had said that the tenants notice would 
have expired. HDI accepted this and paid her a further £2827.50 to reflect this.
Mrs M was not happy and contacted us. She feels that HDI should reimburse her for the 
costs of the letting agent, and because she received less rent for the remainder of the rental 
period and going forward.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and he did not uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint.
He considered that there was insufficient evidence that the tenants would have stayed on if 
not for the leak. He therefore considered that HDI had made a reasonable decision and offer 
of settlement.
Mrs M did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I made further enquiries with Mrs M regarding whether she has evidence of when the 
tenants gave notice and I set out my preliminary view in a provisional decision issued in July 
2022.
In that provisional decision I explained that I did not consider that HDI had acted unfairly. I 
was not satisfied that the tenants left the property due to the leak, and I did not consider that 
it had been shown that Mrs Ms losses were all consequences of the leak, or that they ought 
to be covered by the policy. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
HDI has confirmed it has no further comments and accepts the provisional decision. 
Mrs M has provided detailed submissions, not accepting the provisional decision. 
Mrs M has made a number of points, which I have considered. I have not addressed each 
comment, but I have considered whether the comments affect my view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M argues that I have misapplied the contract terms and have overwritten contract law in 
my provisional decision. I do not agree. As previously explained our services role is to 
consider whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably in its actions. Whilst we take 
into account current law and practice, we do not arbitrate the law, as this is the function of 
the courts. My decision is only binding on the parties if it is accepted by Mrs M. If she 
decides not to accept, she remains free to pursue any legal remedies she feels she has. 
Mrs M also argues that I have wrongly interpreted the wording about what losses result 
from the insured event. She considers that all consequences which follow the leak ought to 
be covered. I do not agree. I consider that the wording and spirit of the insurance agreement 
covers losses which were caused by the insured event. 
For this reason, I sought evidence from Mrs M of when the tenants gave notice to leave the 
property. In my view, if they had given notice before the leak occurred then the need to re-
market the property could not be due solely to the leak (as the policy required) as it was due 
to be vacated in any event. 
I have not been prescriptive about what evidence I wanted to see, and I have not required 
that the notice was given in writing. Mrs M has provided a photograph of part of a text 
message without the date shown, and a further text message showing when the tenants 
alerted her to the leak. I do not consider I have seen adequate evidence to be satisfied that 
the tenants gave their notice after, or as a consequence of, the leak. Mrs M points to the fact that HDI ultimately accepted that the tenants notice ought to have 
run until mid-September 2020, and that HDI paid her more lost rent because of this. I 
appreciate that HDI paid on the claim up to mid-September 2020, but this does not alter my 
need to be satisfied of what losses were caused by the leak, and which losses simply 
occurred around the time of the leak. 
Mrs M has also argued that the rent ought to be paid for a further 2 months after the property 
was repaired because she says she was not able to re-market the property until after mid-
September. HDI previously stated that the repairs were complete by early August 2020.
I have not seen evidence which suggests that Mrs M was prevented from re-marketing the 
property until mid-September, such as to make it fair to expect HDI to reimburse lost rent 
during that period. Mrs M has also provided evidence from her letting agent which indicates 
that the property was being marketed online for at least 60 days before 13 October 2020 (so 
from at least mid-August 2020). 
In the absence of evidence showing that the property was vacated due to the leak, or that it 
had to be re-marketed as a consequence of the leak, I think it is fair that HDI compensate 
Mrs M for the rent lost while the property was uninhabitable. It has done this. 
Consequently, I remain of the view expressed in my provisional decision and I adopt that 
decision, as supplemented by the above, as my final decision. I do not uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint and do not ask HDI Global Specialty SE to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint and I do not ask HDI Global Specialty SE to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman