DRN-3805879
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost when he was the victim 
of a scam. 
Mr S is represented by a firm that Ill refer to as C.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mr S was the victim of an investment scam totalling about £45,000. HSBC were able to 
recover most of the funds, except for about £9,200. After this, in around December 2018, 
Mr S started researching fraud recovery companies to assist with the outstanding £9,200 he 
and came across a firm Ill refer to as H. H appeared legitimate to Mr S as he found multiple 
online recommendations, positive reviews and was reassured by explanations of how the 
funds would be recovered. So, he proceeded to use Hs services after agreeing a 15% 
recovery success fee. 
H subsequently asked Mr S for various payments  over the period of several months - to 
cover the cost of software that was needed for them to be able to recover the funds (as well 
as profits and bonuses from the investment). 
The relevant payments are:
Date Type Amount
8 December 2018 Faster payment £930
18 December 2018 Faster payment £3,700
22 December 2018 Faster payment £3,260
8 January 2019 Faster payment £1,868
1 February 2019 Faster payment £1,819
15 February 2019 Faster payment £1,820
7 March 2019 Faster payment £1,775
Total: £15,172
Mr S became aware hed been scammed after taking a letter he received from another bank 
to one of their branches. The letter said, although there was a delay, money would be 
crediting Mr Ss account shortly. The staff from the other bank informed Mr S they didnt 
produce letters of this nature. So, Mr S called HSBC to make a fraud claim.
HSBC acknowledged that Mr S had been the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) 
scam but they were unable to reimburse the £15,172 as he authorised the payments. They 
added that theyd contacted the beneficiary bank about the fraud, although receiving a 
response to this could take up to 20 working days. 
C complained to HSBC on behalf of Mr S about what happened. In short, they said:
HSBC had a duty to exercise reasonable skill and care, pay due regard to the 
interest of their customers and to follow good industry practice to keep customers 
accounts safe. This includes identifying vulnerable consumers who may be more 
susceptible to scams  including looking for payments which might indicate the 
consumer is at risk of financial harm. Considering this, HSBC should have systems in 
place to identify out of character or unusual transactions. 
In Mr Ss case, he recalls all the payments made over the three-month period going 
through immediately with no additional checks carried out by HSBC. This activity was 
unusual for Mr S when compared to his usual spending and transfer habits. And so, 
the high value payments to a new payee ought to have been considered suspicious 
by HSBC prompting additional security. 
HSBC ought to have blocked the payments, contacted Mr S and asked probing 
questions about why he was sending so much money to a new payee and whether 
hed met H in person. Had they done so, Mr S wouldve become aware that it was a 
scam and not proceeded with the payments. HSBCs failure to take this action, 
resulted in Mr S being the victim of the scam.
Mr S has been the victim of a scam prior to this and so was more vulnerable to fraud. 
So, there ought to have been increased security and vigilance here.
To settle this complaint, Mr S wants the reimbursement of the money lost (£15,172).
HSBCs position didnt change but they added that the payments Mr S made were before the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code came into effect in May 2019, so werent 
covered under it.
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman but our investigator didnt think 
HSBC has to do anything further. He said he didnt think the payments wouldve been 
particularly unusual or suspicious in appearance to HSBC considering Mr Ss normal 
account and payment activity. This is because, although the payments went to a new payee, 
the first payment was of a low value and sent to a UK account. And the subsequent 
payments were then sent over several months to what wouldve been considered an 
established payee, so not close together. Our investigator added that the payments also 
didnt leave Mr Ss account depleted.
As Mr S didnt speak with HSBC at the time of the payments, he couldnt say HSBC missed 
an opportunity to identify the payments were being made in relation to a scam. But he 
thought HSBC acted appropriately by contacting the receiving bank, in an attempt to recover 
the funds, upon being notified of the scam by Mr S. 
C didnt accept our investigators assessment and so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide. They disagreed HSBC ought not to have picked up on the larger value payments, 
such as the £3,700 on 18 December 2018, due to it being an established payee. They 
referred to fraud techniques such as account takeover, which HSBC wouldve been alive to 
as a possibility, and so ought to have intervened effectively on this date. Had this happened, 
Mr S wouldve suffered a loss no greater than £930. 
Before I go on to explain the reasons for my decision, Id like to clarify that Im only looking at 
the scam payments above totalling £15,172 here. Im aware Mr S has referred another 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman about the £9,200 that wasnt recovered under the 
first scam. That has been dealt with separately, as I understand, our recommendation for HSBC to refund it was accepted by both parties. I therefore wont be commenting on that as 
part of this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr S has been the victim of a scam. I appreciate this has been a very 
distressing situation and I dont underestimate the impact its had on him as I realise its a 
significant sum hes lost. But, while I know this isnt the outcome Mr S will be hoping for, I 
dont think HSBC has acted unfairly by not refunding his loss for similar reasons to our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive thought about the CRM code which can offer a potential means of obtaining a refund 
following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this one. But the CRM code didnt 
come into effect until 28 May 2019 and doesnt apply retrospectively. This means, as Mr Ss 
payments were made before this, theyre not covered under the CRM code. Ive therefore 
considered whether HSBC should reimburse Mr S under any of their other obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that their customer authorises them to make. Here, it isnt disputed that 
Mr S knowingly made the payments from his HSBC account. I appreciate Mr S was tricked 
by the scammers as he thought the payments were for software that would be used to 
receive funds he lost to the prior scam. Nevertheless, Im satisfied the payments were 
authorised by Mr S. So, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his 
account, HSBC are expected to process the payments and Mr S is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for HSBC to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr S to HSBC (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to his typical account activity.
Ive carefully considered all that C has said, particularly in relation to the higher value 
payments of £3,700 and £3,260 made in late December 2018. While I acknowledge these 
were for more than Mr S typically spent month on month from his account, I dont think any 
of the payments (or the series of payments) were so unusual or out of character where Id 
have expected HSBC to have intervened at the time. This because the payments were 
spread across several months - so not immediately after one another - and they didnt drain 
Mr Ss account (which are often indicators of fraud). I think its also worth noting that it isnt 
unusual for people to make less frequent payments from time to time for one off or 
occasional expenses.
Im aware C has argued that, as Mr S had been the victim of a scam before, he was at 
greater risk of fraud and so HSBC also ought to have applied greater security to these 
payments. Ive considered this but, while I accept Mr Ss possible vulnerability because of 
the initial scam, this doesnt mean HSBC was obligated to intervene in all Mr Ss payments 
going forward. Instead, theyre expected to consider vulnerability  amongst other factors  
when assessing whether a customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud. And, in this case, for the above reasons, I dont think HSBC had reason to think that was the case 
here.
So, taking all of this into consideration, I dont think the payment instructions (individually or 
collectively) were so unusual that Id have expected HSBC to have done more before 
following the instructions Mr S gave. 
It follows that I think HSBC acted fairly by processing the payments without carrying out 
additional checks. When HSBC became aware of the scam though, I think they took 
reasonable steps to try to recover the funds. Unfortunately, I understand this wasnt possible 
as the funds had been transferred out of the beneficiaries account and so sadly Mr S has 
lost £15,172.
Im sorry to hear Mr S fell victim to a scam. But in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont 
think HSBC has acted unfairly. So, Im not going to tell them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman