DRN-3025272
The complaint
Mr S complains about his insurer, Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead), declining a claim 
under his home insurance policy for damage to his property caused by bad weather.
 
Fairmead use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Fairmead 
includes these agents.
What happened
In October 2016 Mr S contacted Fairmead to tell them that, following a period of heavy rain, 
water had pooled in the basement of his property. Mr S asked Fairmead to send a surveyor 
to inspect the property, but Fairmead asked him to provide a report setting out the cause of 
the damage. Fairmead didnt receive a report and shortly afterwards closed the claim 
because without a report they were unable to determine whether an insured event had 
occurred (and therefore whether the claim would be covered under Mr Ss policy).
Mr S told us that he contacted different companies, who visited his property over the 
following two years. Mr S eventually obtained a report (dated July 2020) which he says he 
sent to Fairmead at the time. Fairmead say they only received it in November 2020 when Mr 
S registered a claim online.
 
Fairmead considered Mr Ss claim but declined it, saying that there werent storm conditions 
or heavy rain at the time of the incident. So there wasnt an insured event that would fall to 
be covered under the policy.
Unhappy at the rejection of his claim, Mr S complained to Fairmead in March 2021. In their 
final response letter of April 2021 Fairmead didnt uphold the complaint, confirming their 
original decision to decline his claim made in 2016. Fairmead referred to weather records 
indicating there werent storm conditions at the time of the incident and heavy rains the day 
after the incident. Fairmead also noted the condition of the basement assessed by Mr Ss 
contractor, in particular that moisture had risen from the floor. Fairmead referred to policy 
terms and conditions that excluded damage that occurred gradually over time and because 
of a gradual rise in the ground water level.
 
Mr S complained to this service. He said that he reported the damage to Fairmead but they 
refused to send out an assessor to inspect the damage. Mr S said he had difficulty getting a 
contractor to report on the damage but eventually did so and sent the report to Fairmead, 
who rejected his claim. Mr S said that he had suffered loss through having to commission a 
report and replace damaged items. He wanted Fairmead to repair his basement and 
compensate him for the damaged items. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded there werent storm conditions 
around the time of the incident, with weather reports indicating lower rainfall levels than 
would be expected in a storm. The investigator also thought that Mr S hadnt shown there 
was an insurable event or a clear cause of the damage. The investigator said that Fairmead 
also acted fairly in declining to consider Mr Ss claim under accidental damage.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said Fairmead didnt offer to send out an assessor to inspect the damage and 
that they delayed responding to him, causing him to incur additional costs. He also said that 
other properties in the area had suffered water flow issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Fairmead has acted fairly towards Mr S.
The main element of Mr Ss complaint is that Fairmead unfairly declined his claim, on the 
grounds that there wasnt an insured event that caused the damage. Specifically, that the 
damage wasnt caused by a storm or by problems with the drains, or could be considered 
accidental damage. Mr S is also unhappy at how Fairmead handled his claim, in particular in 
not sending out an assessor to inspect the damage, as well as delays in handling his claim.
In considering the first element, whether the damage resulted from a storm, there are three 
key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, Ive looked at the information about the weather conditions around the 
date of the incident, when Mr S originally lodged his claim in October 2016. These show only 
slight or no significant rain in the days leading up to the incident, or in the month before the 
incident. Ive also looked at the data for wind speeds over the same period, and there is no 
indication of winds on any date that would constitute a storm. Ive concluded there werent 
storm conditions present around the date of the incident. 
As Ive concluded that there werent storm conditions present, then I havent gone on to 
consider the second and third key issues. 
Mr S also told us about issues with the drains, including water flow issues at other properties 
in the area. But hes provided no evidence to support this view. Together with my conclusion 
that there werent excessive rainfall or storm force winds around the time of the incident, 
then Im not persuaded there were issues with drains or water flow in the area.
Similarly, Ive seen no evidence to support the conclusion that the damage to Mr Ss 
property (and some contents) would fall under accidental damage. 
Turning to the second question, Ive considered what Mr S and Fairmead told us, including 
Fairmeads case notes at the time of the incident and subsequently following Mr Ss report. 
At the time of the incident Fairmead asked Mr S to provide a report setting out the cause of 
the damage. They also said a surveyor would only be able to carry out a non-invasive survey 
that wouldnt provide a cause of the damage. Under a standard insurance policy, the onus is 
on the policyholder to show that an insured event has caused damage, so Ive concluded 
Fairmeads actions were reasonable. They closed the claim when they didnt receive a report 
from Mr S and the case notes indicate they confirmed this, but that they would re-consider 
his claim if he subsequently were to provide a report.Mr S told us he had difficulty obtaining a report, only doing so in July 2020. As the onus was 
on Mr S to obtain a report, I dont think Fairmead were responsible for the delay and havent 
acted unreasonably. Ive also noted that they considered the report provided by Mr Ss 
contractor and, based on this, re-confirmed their decision to decline the claim. Ive read the 
report carefully. It describes the condition of the property (at the time of the inspection). Even 
allowing for the significant time between the incident and the inspection, I cant see that it 
clearly states a cause of the damage. It also indicates issues with the floor and the damp 
membrane between the floor and the walls that would lead to moisture rising from the floor to 
the walls. Ive concluded that the report doesnt provide any clear evidence to conclude that 
there was an insurable event that led to the damage Mr S claims from the incident in 2016.
Taking all these points together, then Ive concluded that Fairmead have acted fairly in 
declining Mr Ss claim and that they have acted fairly in handling the claim, both originally in 
2016 and subsequently from 2020.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman