DRN-2719311
The complaint
Mr L says 1st Stop Personal Loans Limited didnt complete proper checks to make sure the
loan he applied for was affordable.
 
What happened
Mr L took out a 60-month instalment loan from 1st Stop on 26 June 2017. It was for £6,000
and the monthly repayments were £162.40. The total repayable was £9744. I understand
the loan remains outstanding and the debt has been sold.
Mr L said 1st Stop didnt carry out sufficient checks before lending to him. 
Our adjudicator found that the loan should not have been given. He said whilst the checks 
were initially proportionate, from the information 1st Stop gathered it should have realised 
further investigation was needed as Mr Ls income was variable and there were signs that 
Mr L may have been struggling financially. So there was a risk the loan was not sustainably 
affordable for him.
1st Stop disagreed saying, in summary, that its checks showed the loan was affordable. It 
checked Mr Ls income with payslips and used a year-to-date average to take account of 
fluctuations. The loan reduced Mr Ls monthly repayments by consolidating other debt and 
even after taking into account the revised expenditure figures provided by the adjudicator 
it said Mr L had enough disposable income to afford the loan. His credit file showed he was 
managing his credit. The loan only became unaffordable after a change in Mr Ls 
circumstances.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when 1st Stop lent to Mr L required it to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a 
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So 1st Stop had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr L. In other words, it wasnt enough for 1st Stop to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr L.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether 1st Stop did what it needed to before agreeing to 
lend to Mr L. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did 1st Stop complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ls
loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did 1st Stop make a fair lending decision?
- did 1st Stop act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see 1st Stop asked for some information from Mr L before it approved the loan. It 
asked for details of his income and expenditure. It verified his income with copies of his 
payslips from the two weeks prior to application. It also checked Mr Ls credit file to 
understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. And finally it asked 
about the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. From these checks combined 
1st Stop concluded Mr L had enough monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loan.
Im not wholly persuaded the checks were proportionate. I cant see the lender verified 
Mr Ls expenditure and given the term of the loan I dont think it was appropriate to rely 
solely on Mr Ls declaration. But I wont comment further on this as even based on the 
information it gathered, I dont think 1st Stop made a fair lending decision. Ill explain why.
Mr L was borrowing to consolidate some of his existing debts. These were two loans that he 
had taken out recently (February and May 2017). As the adjudicator said, 1st Stop was 
aware that the February loan had also been taken out to refinance existing debts. 
So, essentially, Mr L was only a few months later further increasing his indebtedness and 
borrowing to repay. And it knew from his credit file that his indebtedness was already 
significant and at times challenging for him: he had unsecured debts of £17,516 with seven 
instances of delinquency in the previous 12 months. So whilst it argues that his monthly cost 
of credit was decreasing (by £18.60) I think it ought to have realised his overall financial 
position was most likely not stable and he was having problems managing his money. It 
could see from Mr Ls credit file that he had refinanced a number of loans through 2016 and 
he didnt seem to be getting out of this cycle of borrowing to repay. 
Given this context the fact Mr Ls income was variable should have further concerned the 
lender that the borrowing might not be sustainable for Mr L over the 60-month term. I note it used a year-to-date average, but as the analysis our adjudicator completed showed there 
could be significant variance by month and his income ranged from £253.20 in one month to 
£1838.42 the next. And whilst the lender used an average that wasnt how Mr L received his 
income which could have meant the repayments werent affordable for him some months.
1st Stop argues Mr Ls credit history was considered in the affordability assessment, but I am 
unsure how. From what I have seen its analysis focused largely on the pounds and pence 
affordability, and not on the overall sustainability of the loan for Mr L. 
I think given how Mr L was managing his finances  Mr L had only needed not to draw on his 
overdraft in one months out of the previous six and was again borrowing to consolidate 
recently consolidated debt - I think the lender credit ought to have realised it was unlikely 
Mr L would be able to repay his loan sustainably  even if it seemed affordable on a pounds 
and pence basis. And this was what 1st Stop needed to check to meet its regulatory 
obligations. CONC 5.3.1(G) stated:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required , a firm
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
So, in summary, I dont think 1st Stop made a fair lending decision using the information it 
gathered when it gave Mr L his loan. It follows I think he has lost out as result of 1st Stops 
decision.
I havent found any evidence that 1st Stop acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr L in 
any other way.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr L to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been provided to him.
It seems 1st Stop has sold the outstanding debt. If this is the case it should buy it back if it is 
able to do so and then take the following steps. If 1st Stop is not able to buy the debt back, 
then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr L
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ls loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then 1st Stop should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 1st Stop 
should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr L, bearing in mind its 
obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically in these discussions.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to the loan*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1st Stop to deduct tax from this interest. 1st Stop should give Mr L 
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ls complaint.  1st Stop Personal Loans Limited should now put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman