DRN-4067947
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax said he could port his mortgage 
without paying an Early Repayment Charge, but then asked him to pay an ERC. When 
Halifax resolved this, it also told him it had wrongly increased the lending on his mortgage. 
What happened
Mr S said he was porting his pre-existing Halifax mortgage to his sole name, and changing it 
from joint names to his sole name. He understood there was an ERC on his old mortgage, 
but said as he was just moving this new borrowing to a new home, the ERC should be 
waived. He said Halifax had agreed to this. But then he got a letter from Halifax saying he 
needed to pay the ERC on his old mortgage, and it wouldnt be closed until he did so. 
Mr S said he contacted Halifax a couple of times in December, and eventually managed to 
talk to someone who confirmed this was an error. But Halifaxs agent said then that there 
was also another problem. The agent told Mr S that Halifax had increased his new mortgage 
by about the same amount as the ERC on the old mortgage. So it wasnt just asking him to 
pay this ERC in cash now, it had also added the ERC cost to his new mortgage. 
Mr S said he called again towards the end of January, and Halifax said it had waived the 
charge from his old mortgage, so it wasnt asking him to pay the ERC in cash anymore. But 
it said the new mortgage was still showing the increased amount owing. The call handler 
said there were detailed notes on his file asking for this to be removed, but it hadnt been. 
Mr S said he then raised a complaint. Halifax told him before it investigated that it would pay 
£25 as a "gesture of goodwill" due to the amount of time hed spent on the phone and the 
inconvenience and stress hed endured trying to resolve this. Mr S said he didnt want that. 
Mr S said he then called his solicitor, who agreed that Mr S shouldnt have been asked to 
pay the ERC when Halifax was closing the old joint mortgage, but he said that there was 
nothing wrong with the new mortgage. The amount Halifax lent Mr S was the the amount 
applied for. Mr S had asked to borrow a bit more than was needed to pay off the mortgage 
and another legal commitment, so there was a surplus, but this balance was in Mr Ss 
solicitors client account, waiting to be sent to him. 
Halifax then called Mr S back, and said it was sorry it had asked Mr S to pay the ERC in 
cash, and it also said it had never applied the ERC to his new mortgage. It paid him £25, but 
Mr S said he didnt want that. Mr S said he did want three things from the Halifax: an apology 
for its mistakes, agreement that its team needs better training, and increased compensation 
to recognise the time and stress involved in chasing this up.
Halifax said it had waived the ERC on Mr Ss mortgage, because he ported that lending. It 
also said it was sorry that it wasnt clear about the balance on Mr Ss new mortgage. It said 
there had never been a mistake made about the amount of the new mortgage, and it was 
sorry things hadnt been made clear to him. 
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld, and Halifax should pay Mr S a bit 
more compensation. He said Halifax had made a mistake when it wrote to Mr S to say he 
needed to pay the ERC on his old mortgage, and it had also acknowledged it wasnt clear on 
the balance on the new mortgage. Our investigator said Mr C had set us call logs showing 
calls of around four and a half hours in total, trying to sort this out with Halifax. So there was 
a lot of inconvenience, and Mr S had told us this caused additional stress at what was 
already a stressful time. 
Our investigator thought Halifax should make a total payment of £100. Mr S rejected that, he 
said his hourly rate was more, and he thought Halifax should pay in line with that. He also 
still wanted Halifax retrain its staff, but our investigator explained we cant require that. Mr S 
also said hed explicitly told Halifax not to pay £25, because he thought that was an insult. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr S previously had a joint mortgage with Halifax which had an ERC. He moved this 
mortgage onto a different property, and into his sole name, in the second half of 2022. It 
appears that this had all been agreed by Halifax, so it also appears that the sending of a 
letter to Mr S saying he needed to pay that ERC was a mistake by Halifax. 
Whilst this would, I think, have been somewhat stressful by itself, Halifax did accept 
relatively quickly that it had made a mistake about this, and Mr S wouldnt have to pay. But 
unfortunately, Halifax also appears then to have made another mistake, saying that it had 
wrongly increased the balance of one of the two amounts hed borrowed. 
Halifax hadnt done this, it had only lent Mr S what his solicitor asked for, on his behalf. But 
by telling Mr S it had made a mistake, it then left Mr S worrying, and trying to get an 
additional charge removed from his mortgage, which Halifax had never actually added. 
I think it is unfortunate that Mr S didnt then check the figures for his original application, as 
that might have resolved things sooner for him, but I understand the point he makes about 
assuming Halifax had the facts right. So I do think this is poor service. I can see that Mr S 
has evidenced the extent of the calls required to resolve this, so I agree with our investigator 
that a payment of £25 isnt sufficient to provide a fair and reasonable outcome here. 
I also agree that £100 would be more appropriate in this case. Thats what Id have 
recommended here, if our investigator hadnt already suggested it. I know Mr S says this 
means the total hell receive is a little less than his hourly rate, but our service doesnt just 
work out compensation on the basis of the hourly rate that complainants earn. I have to take 
all the circumstances of a case into account, and here, I do think £100 provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. As Halifax has paid Mr S £25 already, Ill allow it to 
count that towards this total.
Mr S also said he would like Halifax to accept that its staff need to be retrained. Whilst I 
understand why Mr S has reached that view, Im sorry to have to tell him that our service 
isnt a regulator, and Im not able to require that retraining in this case. My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must pay Mr S £100 in total 
for this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax can count towards that amount 
any payment of compensation it has already made for this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman