DRN-3360042
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Jaja Finance Ltd wont refund a transaction on his credit card account 
that he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr S noticed that a payment totalling £1,284.87 had been debited from his 
account which he didnt recognise as carrying out. Mr S was abroad at the time of the 
payment and suspected hed been targeted by fraudsters.
Mr S disputed the transaction with his credit card provider who temporarily refunded him 
while it looked into his claim. Having looked into the claim, it decided to re-debit the payment 
from Mr Ss account for the following reasons:
It deemed the payment authorised by Mr S as the transaction was carried out using 
his genuine card and PIN.
Mr S admitted to taking a taxi on the same day, and paying for it with his credit card, 
in the country where the merchant was based. This was corroborated by the 
merchant code which specified it was for taxi services.
Mr S didnt have chargeback rights due to the transaction being carried out by chip 
and PIN.
Mr S was unable to provide supporting evidence to raise a Section 75 claim under 
the Consumer Credit Act (CCA).
It did however compensate Mr S with £35 for the service hed received. It acknowledged that 
the re-debit wasnt discussed with him prior to it taking place. It said that this caused Mr S 
inconvenience in having to make contact and seek explanation for its actions.
Mr S remained unhappy with the result of his claim. He said that while the transaction may 
have been for the taxi journey he made that day, the amount charged far exceeded the cost 
of the journey. He said that he didnt authorise a payment for this amount and therefore 
shouldnt be held liable for it. As he remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to our 
service.
An Investigator looked into the evidence provided by both parties but concluded Jaja hadnt 
made an error and didnt need to do anything more. They highlighted the following reasons 
for their findings:
Mr S authorised the transaction using his genuine card and PIN
The payment wasnt so unusual or out of character for Mr Ss account that it ought to 
have reasonably been triggered by the provider and questioned.
A chargeback couldnt be made under the schemes rules due to the use of chip and 
PIN. Nor were the conditions met for a Section 75 claim.
No evidence could be provided by Mr S to support his claim.
Mr S disagreed with the Investigators assessment. He said that the assessment 
contradicted itself in that reliance upon the card and PIN being used isnt sufficient to support 
authorisation according to the relevant regulations. Yet the Investigator relied upon this very 
fact when finding hed authorised the payment.
He also felt that the grounds for crediting his account with the disputed payment and then re-
debiting it havent been supported by legal authority to do so.
Furthermore, he felt the assessment didnt adequately address the fairness of Jajas 
compensation offer.
As Mr S disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has now been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Mr S authorise the transaction in dispute?
The regulations relevant to this complaint are set out in the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs). Broadly speaking, these set out that a consumer can only be held liable for a 
transaction that theyve authorised.
It isnt generally disputed in the facts of this case that Mr Ss genuine card and PIN was used 
to carry out the transaction. Nevertheless, Jaja has been able to evidence that this is the 
case. What is in dispute is if Mr Ss consent was given for the payment to be made.
Mr S has acknowledged that a taxi journey was made on the day the disputed transaction 
was carried out. But Mr S says that the journey made wasnt for the amount he was charged 
for. He clarified that the journey taken should have been charged at approximately £7-£8.
Mr S has made representation that hes not even sure if the card payment does relate to the 
journey hed made by taxi. But he is sure that if it was, hed looked at the terminal and 
ensured the amount was correct before authorising it. 
Having looked at the evidence provided by both parties, Im persuaded that this transaction 
was likely for the taxi journey mentioned above. Im persuaded because:
1. Mr S made a taxi journey the same day as the disputed transaction and paid for this 
journey using the card from which the disputed payment was made. Hes also 
confirmed that this was authorised using chip and PIN.
2. The country in which the payment was made correlates to the general geographical 
location of where Mr S was at the time.
3. Having looked at Mr Ss account statements that day, I dont find that any other 
payment corresponds to a taxi journey or for the amount he says he thought hed 
paid for it.
4. Mr S says that he had his card with him at all times and didnt share his PIN with 
anyone. This makes it unlikely that an unknown third-party took the card, guessed 
the PIN and replaced it in Mr Ss possession.
Furthermore, our service is aware of a number of complaints alleging fraud citing the same 
scenario Mr S has unfortunately been victim to. These have broadly involved significantly 
inflated taxi journey payments in and around the geographical location he was in at the time.
The combined facts above persuade me that the most likely explanation for the disputed payment is that it was for Mr Ss taxi journey that day. And while I have no reason to 
disbelieve that Mr S was defrauded in some way, either by the merchant misleading him to 
the amount being authorised or that Mr S just didnt noticed the amount displayed, under the 
relevant regulations, he did authorise and consent to the transaction in dispute. 
Should the payment have triggered Jaja to intervene?
While my findings have highlighted that Mr S has more likely authorised the transaction, 
financially regulated businesses do have a duty to exercise reasonable skills and care, follow 
regulations and good industry practice; as well as other obligations.
Some of these include an expectation to monitor accounts and transactions to identify 
unusual or out of character activity that may indicate a consumer is at risk of financial harm. 
This co-exists with an obligation to process a customers instruction to make payments in 
line with the PSRs. 
I acknowledge that this is a difficult balancing act that a business has to undertake to ensure 
its customers arent at risk of financial harm against placing an unnecessarily burdensome 
process that delays or frustrates a customers need to make legitimate payments.
Here, the payment was authorised by the genuine card and PIN. The payment was also 
made in a country where several undisputed payments were being made on Mr Ss card at 
the time. The payment amount is higher than other payments being made at the time, but it 
wasnt so significant that Jaja ought to have been concerned. I say this as its reasonable to 
expect that consumers occasionally make higher value payments for goods and services 
slightly above their normal account expenditure.
For the above reasons, Im not persuaded that Jaja ought to have been concerned by the 
payment and verified that Mr S wasnt at risk.
Was there any other way Jaja could have assisted Mr S?
There are a number of ways in which businesses can help to recover or dispute payments 
made by consumers. These include:
Using relevant chargeback schemes for disputes between cardholders and 
merchants. The rules for chargebacks are set out by the relevant card scheme rather 
than the business that has issued the card.
Section 75 claims under the CCA, which specifically relates to disputes around goods 
and services paid for using credit, such as credit cards. This gives equal right for a 
borrower to claim against their credit provider if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or services.
Chargeback
As has already been highlighted, Jaja were unable to raise a chargeback through the 
relevant scheme as no such reason under the scheme exists for transactions carried out by 
chip and PIN. As this was the case here, I find that it was reasonable no such dispute was 
raised.
Section 75 claim
For a claim to be a made under the relevant legislation, certain thresholds must be met. One 
of these sets out that the claim must relate to any single item price attached to the goods or 
services more than £100 and no more than £30,000. Broadly speaking, this means that the price relates to the cash value of the goods/services received rather than the price charged 
to the card.
Mr S has provided testimony that hed made the same journey in a taxi as the one likely 
subject to this dispute. Hes told our service that this journey would typically cost £7-£8. So, 
even when applying possible surcharges or fluctuations in price for the journey, the actual 
cash value of the services received wouldnt reach the £100 threshold required for a claim of 
this nature. It follows that a Section 75 claim wasnt applicable in the circumstances.
Nevertheless, even if the relevant criteria had been reached for a claim to be raised, Mr S 
didnt possess any evidence to support a breach of contract or a misrepresentation in the 
circumstances. Hed not kept a receipt for the payment or any documentary evidence for his 
journey or the contract to which hed entered into. That isnt a criticism of Mr S as I can 
understand why hed not done this, but I think its appropriate to acknowledge that it would 
have impacted his ability to prove his claim.
Did Jaja treat Mr S unfairly in any other way?
Mr S has mentioned that he is particularly unhappy with the way in which Jaja handled his 
claim. Specifically, hes unhappy it decided to refund the transaction and then re-debit it 
without lawful reason.
When a consumer disputes a transaction on their credit card, the card issuer will sometimes 
provide a temporary refund to the customer while it investigates the claim. This is done on a 
goodwill basis and prevents further impact to the consumer reporting the dispute. I dont 
think it unreasonable that Jaja done that here. It thought that Mr S was disputing a payment 
altogether and temporarily refunded him on that basis. But once it discovered that the 
payment was carried out by chip and PIN, and that it was likely for a legitimate purchase, it 
was reasonable for it to re-debit the amount itd refunded as Mr S was deemed liable.
It has however acknowledged that it could have communicated that to Mr S better. It pointed 
out that had it told Mr S why it was re-debiting the amount prior to doing so, it would have 
prevented unnecessary time that he spent on the telephone trying to find this out.
I find that the £35 payment was a reasonable amount of compensation to offer in the 
circumstances. It reflected the impact of the time Mr S had spent trying to talk to Jaja on the 
telephone and the inconvenience this caused.
Mr S has said that this represented less than 3% of his total loss. He felt that on the basis of 
goodwill, Jaja should have met him halfway and compensated him half the money lost. But 
its not within my jurisdiction, nor is appropriate for me, to tell a regulated financial business 
what payments it should make on a goodwill basis; thats a commercial decision that it 
makes itself. 
I realise this may come as a disappointment to Mr S and I sympathise with the loss hes 
faced. But the conclusions that Ive made above dont find any error in the way Jaja acted 
here. It would therefore be unreasonable for me to say that it should be held partially liable 
and award further redress. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive provided above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman