DRN-2006788
 
The complaint
Mrs T is complaining Evolution Insurance Company Limited didnt assist her when she asked 
for assistance from her roadside assistance policy.
Mrs T has largely been represented by her husband in this complaint. But for ease of 
reference, I shall refer to any statements hes made as being made by Mrs T.
What happened
Mrs T took out a roadside assistance policy with Evolution. In February 2019 she broke 
down while on holiday in Yorkshire, so she contacted Evolution to request assistance. The 
recovery agent was able to restart the car and she continued on to her intended 
destination with the recovery driver following her.
Mrs T had a garage fix the car the next day, but when driving home from holiday the car 
broke down again, so she called Evolution to ask for further assistance. But Evolution said 
it wouldnt assist further as it said the terms of the contract set out that it doesnt attend 
further breakdowns for any symptoms relating to a call out made within the last 28 days. It 
offered to come out and look at the car at a cost of £100.
Mrs T then contacted another breakdown recovery company and took out separate 
membership cover with them at a cost of around £150. Mrs Ts car was then recovered 
locally and she had to stay in Yorkshire overnight. She returned home the following day by 
train.
She then complained to Evolution as she thought it should refund the amount shed paid 
towards the replacement membership she took out. She also thought it should refund the 
fuel costs incurred and lost earnings that she and her husband lost. She also thought it 
should compensate her for the distress and inconvenience it had caused.
Evolution responded to say that Mrs T didnt explain on the telephone that shed repaired 
the car. So it didnt think the call handler had acted fairly. However it said it was willing to 
cover the costs she incurred in returning home. Mrs T didnt think this was fair and 
highlighted that at no point did the call handler say the exclusion clause didnt apply if the 
vehicle has been fully repair at a suitable garage. She said Evolution should have 
recovered her car under the policy.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. And I said the following:
Its clear that Mrs T had a very difficult and distressing time when she broke down and 
particularly when Evolution said it wouldnt attend. But, while I naturally sympathise with the 
situation Mrs T found herself in, I need to think about whether Evolution acted unfairly in this 
case.
I should first set out that the terms of Mrs Ts contract set out that the policy doesnt cover:
Subsequent call outs for any symptoms related to a claim which has been made within the 
last 28 days, unless your vehicle has been fully repaired at a suitable garage, declared fit to 
drive by our breakdown and recovery agent or is in transit to a pre-booked appointment at a 
suitable garage.
When Mrs T called, she initially said this was the second time shes called. And she said a 
warning light had come on and the car had started to lose power. I acknowledge when she 
reported the breakdown the day before that the battery light had come on, the car was 
losing power and was now immobile. And this would have, on the face of it, seemed to be 
the same faults as Mrs T reported previously. So I dont think it was unreasonable for the 
call handler to say that the claim wasnt covered as it did seem to be excluded based on 
what Mrs T said.
But, while I dont think it was unfair for the call handler to think the breakdown wasnt 
covered, Im also conscious she only set out half of the exclusion  i.e. she didnt explain the 
exclusion didnt apply if the car had been repaired by a suitable garage. And I dont think 
this was fair. I think, had the call handler highlighted this to Mrs T, she would have explained 
the car had been repaired the day before.
I note Evolution says it cant be expected to ask on every occasion whether the car had 
been repaired or not. And I dont necessarily disagree with that. But I would expect it to set 
out the exclusion clause its relying upon in full  not just paraphrasing it. And its clear 
Mrs T has lost out as a result of what Evolution did wrong.
Mrs T took out a new breakdown policy to recover her car home and she wants Evolution to 
refund this. But I dont think this is fair. The replacement policy provided significantly more 
comprehensive cover than the policy Evolution had provided. And shes had the benefit of 
that policy. So I dont think Evolution needs to refund this cost. But I think it should 
compensate her in a different way.
Evolution has offered to refund the amount Mrs T paid for the policy it provided. And I think 
thats fair. It should also pay 8% simple interest on this from the date she paid it until she 
gets it back. But I also think Mrs T suffered a lot of distress and inconvenience as a result of 
Evolution not attending the breakdown. She was left on the side of a road with her children 
with no means of getting home. And she had to source another way to recover her car 
which Evolution should have done. Given this, I think Evolution should pay her an additional 
£150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
I understand Evolution has already refunded the cost of the train tickets Mrs T paid to return 
home. But it should refund this if it hasnt already done so. It should pay 8% simple interest 
on this too from the date she paid it until she gets it back.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything else to think about, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. And I require Evolution 
Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Refund the amount Mrs T paid for the policy it provided*;
2. Refund the cost of the train tickets Mrs T paid to return home if it hasnt already done 
so*; and
3. Pay Mrs T £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter 
has caused her.
* Evolution should pay 8% simple interest on this from the date she paid it until she gets it 
back. If Evolution thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman