DRN-1741218
 
The complaint
B is unhappy with the amount invoiced by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) for repairs, after they returned a vehicle taken on hire from MBFS.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties. So I wont repeat them at length 
here. Briefly, B took a vehicle on hire from MBFS for a two-year period. In June 2019, just 
before the vehicle was returned, an inspection was carried out by British Car Auctions 
(BCA). Its report highlighted certain repairs to be carried out and provided a total estimated 
repair value of around £1,800. 
Mr R, a partner in B contested the amount quoted in the invoice. When he complained to 
MBFS, it reduced the invoice by about £400 but still required B to pay around £1,400. Not 
happy with this, Mr R complained to us.
Since our involvement, MBFS agreed to reduce the invoice further by around £550. This 
brought down the amount payable to £860. MBFS insisted that the remaining items of repair 
are chargeable. 
Our investigator agreed that the revised figure is reasonable. However, he considered that 
this matter had caused inconvenience to B. Therefore he recommended that MBFS pay 
£200 by way of compensation. 
MBFS agreed to pay £100. Mr R remained unhappy. He said that he was not satisfied with 
the MBFS conduct and how it handled its relationship with B. He reiterated that MBFS 
hadnt assessed the inspection fairly. He said that despite this, B is prepared to pay £500 in 
full and final settlement and the remaining £360 should be compensation for MBFS unfair 
and bullish behaviour. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mr Rs submission that MBFS hadnt taken into account the remedial work 
carried out by B. Unfortunately he is unable to provide evidence of the work B carried out. 
However, he has explained to our investigator that he had a cash invoice for the work done 
and that it might not provide details of the various work carried out. In the circumstances, it is 
difficult for me to know with certainty what were the remedial work carried out by B.
Nevertheless, I see that MBFS has since agreed to cancel several items from the invoice 
and as things currently stand there are only four items from the inspection report which 
MBFS says are due to be paid.As I understand it, the inspection was carried out independently by the BCA. I have reviewed 
its report along with the photographs in relation to these four items. Having done so, I have 
no reason to doubt the accuracy of the inspection report. And with the lack of evidence to 
show that these were subsequently rectified, I have not been persuaded to ask MBFS to 
remove any of these remaining four items.
I agree however that this matter was not handled satisfactorily by MBFS. For example, B 
was charged for the spare key when it is clear from the pre collection report that the spare 
key was available. And had it not been for Mr R challenging it, that may have gone unnoticed 
and B would have paid this amount. I dont think this is a reflection of good customer service. 
In fact the total charge was eventually reduced by almost 50% of the original invoice. 
I can see that this clearly caused distress to Mr R and inconvenience to him and B. Our 
investigator had recommended that MBFS pay £200 towards this. I appreciate Mr Rs 
strength of feeling in relation to this, but I consider that this is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited should pay B £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman