DRN-3275773
The complaint
Mr D complains about end of contract charges when he voluntary terminated his agreement 
with Vauxhall Finance plc.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr D was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with VF. Prior to the end of the agreement, Mr D decided to voluntary terminate. The car was 
inspected and collected, following which VF asked Mr D to pay damage charges.
Mr D disputed the charges. He said there was already damage to the car when he got it and 
that it was unfair to charge him for a missing spare key because hed never been provided 
with this. He was also unhappy that he was being charged for GAP insurance when he had 
already received a pro rata refund of this from the insurer.
In response, VF said the charges had been applied correctly. Mr D was unhappy with the 
response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the charges had been applied fairly, 
and that there was no evidence that the damage was present when Mr D got the car. The 
investigator also said that because the cost of the GAP insurance had been added to the 
finance agreement, and wouldve been paid off over the term of the agreement, the early 
termination of the agreement  meant that the cost of the GAP insurance hadnt been fully 
paid off.
Mr D didnt agree. He said hed paid 50% of the payments due under the agreement and he 
didnt think he should be liable to pay anything more. He said the damage which had been 
identified was within wear and tear, and that the car was second hand when he purchased it 
and already had imperfections. Mr D said he hadnt been given the opportunity to repair the 
damage himself after the inspection. He said hed terminated the agreement because of 
financial circumstances and that the charges would place him under additional financial 
stress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr D must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear, or any missing items, is 
the customers responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. This identifies several areas of 
damage. Theres also a charge for a missing key. Ive thought about whether each item of 
damage exceeds fair wear and tear and Ive had regard to the relevant guidelines. Having 
done so, Im satisfied that the damage goes beyond acceptable wear and tear and that the 
charges have been fairly applied.
I appreciate that Mr D purchased the car second hand. Hes said that there were some 
imperfections when he got the car, but he hasnt been specific about these. I accept that a 
second-hand car will have a degree of wear and tear. However, the BVLRA guidelines 
already make allowances for this. If there had been really significant damage to the car when 
Mr D got it, I would have expected this to have been noted on the documentation. I would 
also have expected Mr D to have raised this with the dealer. Theres no evidence that this 
happened. On balance, there isnt enough evidence for me to say that the car had damage 
which exceeded fair wear and tear when it was supplied to Mr D. 
Mr D has said that he was never provided with a spare key and he doesnt think its fair to 
charge him for this. VF has said that it spoke to the supplying dealer about this, and the 
supplying dealer confirmed that theres no information to suggest that the car was sold 
without a spare key. If the spare key was missing at the point of supply, I would have 
expected Mr D to raise this with the supplying dealer. I havent seen any evidence that he 
did so.
Mr D has also said that he wasnt given the opportunity to repair the damage himself. Ive 
looked at the relevant clauses of the agreement. These say that its Mr Ds responsibility to 
arrange any necessary repairs to the car. It also says that its Mr Ds responsibility to return 
the car in good condition. Im satisfied that Mr D had the opportunity to look around the car 
himself prior to it being inspected and collected, and to arrange any necessary repairs if he 
wished.
In relation to the GAP insurance, I can see that the full cost of the insurance was added to 
the finance agreement and was repayable over the term of the agreement. Mr D ended the 
agreement early so it follows that the full cost of the GAP policy hadnt been paid off. I dont 
think VF acted unfairly by asking Mr D to pay the balance due for the insurance. Mr D has 
said that hes received a refund from the insurer, so hes already benefitted from monies 
which are due to VF. 
I understand that Mr D terminated the agreement early because of financial difficulties, and 
that hes continuing to experience these. I would expect VF to approach this situation 
positively and sympathetically and to agree an affordable payment arrangement with Mr D 
for the damage charges.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to say that VF has done anything wrong or acted 
unfairly here. For the reasons Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman