DRN-4253555
The complaint
Mr I has complained about the length of time it took Watford Insurance Company Europe 
Limiteds approved repairer to complete the repairs to his van after he made a claim on his 
van insurance policy. Hes said this caused the limited company, who Ill refer to as G, that 
he is a director of, significant losses. 
What happened
Mr Is van was damaged by thieves in January 2023. He made a claim under his policy and 
Watfords repair agent moved his van to a place of safe storage and he was told theyd 
arrange repairs. In the end Mr I didnt get his van back repaired until 16 May 2023. 
Our investigator said she was considering everything that had happened up to 12 May 2023 
as part of Mr Is complaint, because this was the point Watford offered additional 
compensation. She said it took Watfords repair agent far too long to repair his van and that 
Watford should pay Mr I £20 per day for the loss of use of his van for the period 16 February 
to 16 May 2023. She said that the £300 Watford had offered in compensation for general 
distress and inconvenience was fair. 
Watford dont agree with the investigators view. Theyve said the delay in carrying out the 
repair was due to the repairer not being able to get a part and that there is no cover for a 
replacement van under Mr Is policy.  
Mr I doesnt agree with the investigators view. Hes said that he should be compensated for 
the losses G incurred as a result of his van being unavailable and the fact it meant it was 
unable to pay his salary. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I think the length of time it took Watfords approved repairer to complete the repairs 
to Mr Is van was unacceptable, even allowing for the fact there may have been a 
delay in obtaining a part. 
In view of the problem getting the part, I think Watford should have been far more 
proactive in trying to source it and looked at other options to make sure Mr I wasnt 
left without a van. 
I think Watfords unreasonable approach caused Mr I to be without a van when he 
shouldnt have been from 16 February to 16 May 2023. And I agree with our 
investigator that Watford should pay Mr I £20 per day for the loss of use of his van in 
this period. This is to compensate him for the fact he was without a vehicle he used 
for business, which is why I think £20 per day is a reasonable sum.  
I appreciate this is beyond the period the investigator said we could consider as part 
of this complaint, but I think it is fair for the loss of use to go up to the day Mr I got his 
van back, as his loss of use flows directly from the delay he complained about 
originally. 
I do not agree with Watfords view that they shouldnt have to pay anything for loss of 
use as there is no cover for a replacement van under Mr Is policy. This is because 
my award for this is outside of the policy terms and due to what I consider to be poor 
claim handling by Watford. 
I also agree with the investigator that Watfords poor handling caused Mr I general 
distress and inconvenience on top of the loss of use of his van. And I agree £300 is 
fair compensation for this. 
I appreciate Mr Is point that G lost income as a result of him not having his van 
available, but I cannot consider losses incurred by G or the knock on effect of these 
as this complaint is about a claim under a policy in Mr Is name.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Is complaint and order Watford to 
do the following to put things right:
Pay Mr I £20 per day for the loss of use of his van for the period 16 February to       
16 May 2023 inclusive. 
Pay Mr I £300 in compensation for general distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Is complaint and order Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to do what 
Ive set out above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman