DRN-3329628
The complaint
Ms A and Mr A complain about Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) and delays 
dealing with a claim under their home insurance policy for water damage to their property.
What happened
In May 2021 Ms A and Mr A contacted Admiral to say that a few weeks previously theyd 
noticed wallpaper coming off the wall in their lounge. They re-attached the wallpaper, but it 
came off again and they noticed a large damp patch in the wall. It wasnt clear what had 
caused the damp patch, so Admiral appointed a surveyor (S) to assess the damage and 
handle the claim (for damage from an escape of water).
It was subsequently found that the escape of water had come from the adjoining property to 
Ms A and Mr A. The leak was fixed, but the damage to Ms A and Mr As property meant the 
plaster on the wall would need to be stripped down and the affected area dried before it 
could be reinstated. Ms A and Mr A were unhappy at the time taken for the work to be 
started, so complained to Admiral. Admiral told Ms A and Mr A that there had been some 
delay due to the need to receive payment of the excess due under the policy, as well as 
issues with booking in a contractor due to the volume of other work they were dealing with at 
the time. Reinstatement work then started.
Ms A and Mr A werent happy, so they complained to Admiral. They raised several points, 
including delays in handling of the claim, how S had communicated with them, the cash 
settlement figure offered being too low, as well as the impact of the repair work and 
inconvenience theyd suffered.
 
Admiral upheld most of the points. They accepted there were avoidable delays in handling 
the claim and that communication with S hadnt always been timely. They also accepted the 
property hadnt been as well-protected as it should have been during the reinstatement. But 
they didnt accept the cash settlement wasnt enough and said some inconvenience was 
unavoidable during the reinstatement. In recognition of the points that were upheld, Admiral 
offered £350 in compensation for distress and inconvenience caused and an additional £50 
as a goodwill gesture for the time taken by Admiral to consider Ms A and Mr As complaint.
Ms A and Mr A then complained to this service, unhappy at the delays in handling their claim 
and the completion of work to repair the damage. They didnt think Admiral had understood 
the impact on their physical and mental wellbeing from the delays. They wanted Admiral to 
compensate them for the impact of the delays and didnt think their offer was enough.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Admiral didnt need to take any 
action. She thought the delays were stressful for Ms A and Mr A, but thought Admirals 
compensation offer was fair in the circumstances and in line with what shed expect. 
Ms A and Mr A disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In doing so, Ms A and Mr A raised several points, including that they were 
without a television for the period of the repair work, as well as the disruption to their family 
life. Theyd also not claimed for the damage to their carpet (Admiral had engaged cleaners to 
clean the carpet). They thought £1,000 would be a fairer amount of compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether Admiral have acted fairly towards Ms A and Mr A.
Id first want to reassure Ms A and Mr A that Ive carefully considered all the points theyve 
raised, both in their complaint to this service as well as those in their complaint to Admiral. 
While I havent set out every one of them in this decision, I have considered them and set 
out what I think are the main issues.
The central issue in Ms A and Mr As complaint whether Admiral have offered a fair amount 
in compensation for the various issues raised by Ms A and Mr A. Ive noted that Admiral 
upheld most of the specific issues raised in Ms A and Mr As complaint. Admiral offered £350 
in compensation for distress and inconvenience caused and an additional £50 as a goodwill 
gesture. Ms A and Mr A say that this isnt enough given the circumstances and the distress 
and inconvenience theyve suffered (they think £1,000 would be fairer).
Ive considered both views carefully, but on balance I think Admirals offer is fair and 
reasonable, so I wont be asking them to increase it or to take any other action. I know this 
will be disappointing to Ms A and Mr A, so Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Ive looked at all the information and evidence available, including Admirals detailed case 
notes that record the sequence of events and the contact and communication with Ms A and 
Mr A. Based on this, Ive concluded that Admiral acted fairly and reasonably when upholding 
the majority of the specific issues raised by Ms A and Mr A. 
Regarding those elements that werent upheld (and subsequently raised by Ms A and Mr A 
in their compliant to this service) Ive considered these. First, that they were without access 
to a television for the period that the reinstatement took place (as it was sealed in a room). 
Ive thought about this, but I think it would be part of the inconvenience that would have 
resulted from the reinstatement work. As such, Ive considered this when reaching my 
conclusion on whether the compensation offered is fair.
Ive also considered Ms A and Mr As point about the disruption to their family life, including 
that a family member couldnt visit because of a medical condition (that would have been 
affected by the disruption, particularly dust). I appreciate the impact this would have had on 
Ms A and Mr A, but I think the nature of the reinstatement work was likely to have had this 
impact (I think plaster removal would release dust). I think the offer made by Admiral is fair 
and reflects an element for this issue.
The other point made by Ms A and Mr A is they could have claimed for replacement of the 
carpet in the affected area (and one of the points in Ms A and Mr As complaint to Admiral). 
Their response was that the carpet (as well as a sofa and decoration in the affected area) 
would be cleaned on completion of the reinstatement work. I understand that Admiral paid 
for the cleaning to be carried out. I think thats reasonable and what I would expect given So, 
I think Admiral acted fairly and I wont be asking them to do anything more. 
Taking all these points together, I dont think Admiral have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
how theyve handled Ms A and Mr As claim (and their complaint). I think their offer of £350 
in compensation (and £50 goodwill gesture) is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Ms A and Mr As 
complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman