DRN-1228986
 
The complaint
Miss D complains TransUnion International UK Limited (TransUnion) shared her personal 
credit file with a third party. She asks for an apology and compensation to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience this matter has caused. 
What happened
Miss D discovered her personal credit file had been shared with a third party, a family 
member. Her personal information was unknown to the wider family and this has caused a 
great deal of stress and humiliation for Miss D.
TransUnion accepted it had merged information from Miss Ds credit file with that of a third 
party and accepted a data protection breach had occurred. It also acknowledged it had 
provided Miss D with a poor service when she called to complain about the breach. It 
apologised but made no offer of compensation.
Miss D brought her complaint to this service. An investigator looked into things for her. Miss 
D said that sharing her personal financial information had led to a family upset that had 
caused her a great deal of stress and humiliation. He also noted it acknowledged it had 
provided poor service when she called to complain. He found TransUnion hadnt acted fairly 
and reasonably and so he asked it to pay £350 in recognition of this.
TransUnion said it accepted it had made an error and this had caused Miss D some level of 
upset, for which it apologised. But, it disagreed with the amount of compensation awarded. It 
said whilst it accepted responsibility for the initial breach of information it wasnt responsible 
for the third party sharing it again with other family members. It said £250 was more 
appropriate.
Our investigator issued a second view, in it he said that although TransUnion had argued the 
breach was minimal (relating only to a mobile phone) and had been removed within 24 hours 
there was sufficient information to suggest financial information relating to loans and credit 
cards had been made available to the family member. Because the manner in which the 
breach occurred was because of Miss Ds personal financial information being merged onto 
the third party family members record, it wasnt possible for the investigator to see a copy of 
the incorrect information. This is because it would also result in this service seeing financial 
information about the third party family member, which isnt possible under data protection 
rules. On balance, the investigator felt that if the information had been minimal it probably 
wouldnt have led to family issues that subsequently arose and which caused Miss D the 
stress and humiliation she described.  He remained of the view £350 was reasonable 
redress given the circumstances.
TransUnion disagreed. It said it remained of the view £250 was fair and reasonable 
compensation as no financial loss had occurred and so it asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive looked at all the information afresh from both parties. Having done so, Ive reached the 
same view as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete or unclear as some of it is here, Im required to 
reach a decision on a balance of probabilities, that is to say what I think is more likely to 
have happened.
There is no doubt that there has been a data protection issue but my role is not to determine 
if any data protection laws have been breached, that is the remit of the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). Having said that TransUnion has acknowledged a breach has 
occurred .So, what I have to decide is the impact of the data protection breach on Miss D.
There hasnt been a financial loss here, but from what Ive seen there has been a significant 
emotional impact on Miss D. This is because her personal information was shared with a 
third party who happened to be a family member. Whilst I accept TransUnion isnt 
responsible for the information being shared again, this wouldnt have happened at all if the 
breach hadnt occurred in the first place. 
Miss D has explained this has been a most humiliating and stressful experience for her and I 
understand that because the information was made available within her own family it has 
caused ongoing issues and distress, in a different way to a breach with an unknown third 
party in that it could have longer term implications. Having taken that into account alongside 
TransUnions further recognition that when Miss D complained it didnt provide her with the 
standard of service it would have expected, Im persuaded £350 is fair and reasonable 
redress in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above I uphold this complaint and direct 
TransUnion International UK Limited to pay:
£350 compensation for trouble and upset
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman