DRN-4433650
The complaint
Mr B has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim on his pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a policy with UKI for his dog, whom Ill call O. The policy covered him for vets 
fees up to a maximum of £4,000 for each condition or for 12 months from the first date of 
treatment.
Between 14 February 2019 and 12 January 2023 O attended the vets four times for ear 
problems with his left ear. Mr B made a claim to UKI after O was treated for an infection in 
his right ear in July 2023.
 
UKI declined the claim. It said cover for this condition had expired on 13 February 2020.
Mr B complained to UKI as he thought this infection should be treated as a new condition. 
His vet told UKI that he felt Os ear condition was a new condition as the previous ear 
infections had all been in Os left ear.
UKI didnt change its decision. Mr B brought his complaint to this service. Our Investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think UKI had treated Mr B unfairly. Mr B thought UKI 
and our Investigator should have spoken to his vet. As Mr B didnt agree with our 
Investigators view, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy provided cover of up to £4,000 or for 12 months, whichever is reached first, for 
each condition. The policy defines conditions as Any injury or illness or any symptoms or 
signs of injury or illness, including related conditions or problems, no matter where these are 
noticed or happen in your pet. It also defined Bilateral Condition as Any condition 
affecting body parts of which your pet has two, (for example ears, eyes, cruciate ligaments, 
hips and patellae). When applying a benefit limit or exclusion Bilateral Conditions are 
considered as one condition.
UKI considered the condition started on 14 February 2019, meaning the treatment needed 
in July and August 2023 was outside the period of cover of 12 months. I dont think thats 
unreasonable and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Os clinical history.  It confirms that O was seen on 14 February 2019 and the 
vet noted:
On exam today L ear nice and clean. R ear very red and warm and lots of mucky wax down 
ear canal.
Mr Bs vet thinks the left and right ears were the wrong way round in this note because the 
following day the vet noticed that the left ear was very waxy and inflamed. He prescribed a 
cleaner and ear drops.
On 8 April 2019 the vet noted that the left ear was inflamed stenotic and ++grey discharge.
On 20 April 2020 the vet noted that theyd discussed with Mr B that O might have allergies 
that were causing pruritis and making him more prone to bacterial infection.
On 16 August 2020 the vet noticed an inflammation in Os left ear. They diagnosed otitis 
externa. I understand this to be an inflammation of the outer ear.
On 12 January 2023 the vet diagnosed otitis externa again in Os left ear.
Assuming the vet is right about a mix-up in the notes for 14 January 2019 the first mention of 
a problem with the right ear is 31 July 2023. The diagnosis was otitis externa.
I accept that the issues prior to July 2023 were in a different ear. But Im satisfied this met 
the policy definition of condition because the symptoms were the same  essentially an 
inflammation in the outer ear. As O showed signs or symptoms of this condition on 14 
February 2019, I can understand why UKI took that as the start date for the condition.
I think the policy wording is clear on bilateral conditions. Ears are something a dog has two 
of and the policy wording confirms that conditions affecting different ears will be treated as 
one condition. If the veterinary evidence showed that the underlying cause of the conditions 
to the left and right ears was different and unrelated, it might not be fair to treat them as the 
same condition. But although there is mention in April 2019 of potential allergies, there does 
not appear ever to have been a diagnosis and all I can be sure of is that O has had otitis 
externa in both ears. 
The evidence from Mr Bs vet focussed on the fact that O had never previously had an 
infection in his right ear. I accept that. But because of the policy definition of Bilateral 
Conditions I dont think that matters. So I dont think UKI (or indeed our Investigator) needed 
to speak to the vet in order to reach a decision on the claim.
Whilst I am sorry to hear of the circumstances that have led to Mr Bs complaint, having 
considered all the evidence, I dont think UKI treated him unfairly in relying on the policy 
terms to decline his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman