DRN-2478119
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about the way DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited 
dealt with a claim on their legal expenses insurance policy, including delays in providing 
cover, concerns about the way the costs were assessed and paid, and that there was a 
conflict of interest that DAS failed to manage correctly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K were involved in litigation with a neighbour about issues relating to breaches 
of covenants and nuisance from 2009 onwards. DAS appointed a firm of solicitors (R) to 
represent Mr and Mrs K, who acted for them until 2012.
In December 2012 DAS instructed another one of its panel solicitors to deal with a claim for 
professional negligence against R, but that firm was unable to act due to a conflict of 
interest. In January 2013 Mr and Mrs K signed a client care letter with another firm of 
solicitors (W). They wished to continue the action against their neighbour and also the 
professional negligence claim against R.
DAS said it would provide cover for the claims. But, with regard to the claim against the 
neighbour, it said the proceedings would first need to be amended to include nuisance; the 
claim as it then stood didnt include an insured event.
Mr and Mrs K says that over the following two years there was no real progress with either 
claim until cover was confirmed for the neighbour claim in 2015. They made a complaint and 
in 2017 DAS issued a final response letter which addressed a number of issues.
The claim continued but Mr and Mrs K were unhappy about some further issues and made 
another complaint. DAS provided a final response to that complaint in January 2019.
As Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with DAS response they brought their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator said he couldnt consider the issues that had been raised in the 
2017 complaint, as they were referred to us too late. With regard to the remaining issues, his 
view was that the complaints should not be upheld.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision. As there was a 
disagreement about our jurisdiction, that issue was referred to an ombudsman to decide first.
The ombudsman issued a decision agreeing with the investigator that it was too late for Mr 
and Mrs K to bring to us the complaint issues that DAS replied to in 2017, but said we could 
consider all the remaining points that had not been considered in the 2017 final response.
Mr and Mrs K provided further comments on those issues. Our investigator reviewed their 
comments but said they didnt lead him to change his view. As no agreement was reached, 
the complaint was passed to me to determine.
I issued a provisional decision; although I also thought the complaint should not be upheld, 
some of my reasons for reaching this conclusion were different from the investigators, and 
so I wanted to give the parties a chance to comment on my conclusions. I set out my 
provisional findings as follows:
As Ive explained, the matters DAS responded to in 2017 are not in our jurisdiction. I cant 
consider them and my decision only covers those aspects of the complaints that can be 
considered.
The matters complained about go back some years and cover more than one claim (though 
they are all inter-connected). Mr and Mrs K have provided very detailed and extensive 
comments on each of the complaint areas. I wont set out everything that has happened in 
detail. I have considered very carefully all the points raised but will focus on the key issues 
that I need to address in order to reach a decision.
Mr and Mrs K have raised a number of concerns about the conduct of their solicitors but 
thats not something I can review or comment on. My role is to review the way DAS has 
handled the claim on the insurance policy.
Delays in claims handling, particularly in issuing cover and agreeing terms with W
Insurers should deal with claims promptly and fairly. Mr and Mrs K say there was a delay of 
over two years in confirming cover for the case against their neighbour, from 2013 to August 
2015. Ive looked at what was happening during that period and whether there was any 
avoidable delay caused by DAS.
In August 2013 W asked DAS if there was cover for the claim against the neighbours. DAS 
advised that the claim was at that point set out as a breach of covenants, something that 
isnt covered by the policy. The policy provides cover for certain events, including damage, 
trespass and nuisance. DAS said that if the claim included any of those issues then cover 
might be available, provided any other relevant terms in the policy were satisfied, for 
example the requirement that the claim have a reasonable chance of success (its usual in 
legal expenses policies that cover is only provided if there is a reasonable chance of 
success, which is usually taken to mean at least a 51% chance of winning the case).
As court proceedings had already been started, the solicitors said they would look to amend 
the pleadings to include a nuisance claim, and would seek advice from a barrister about the 
chances of success. DAS told Mr and Mrs K it would close its file until it received amended 
court papers.
In April 2014 W sent an email to Mr and Mrs K, and copied in DAS, saying counsels view 
was that the claim had a more than 51% chance of success and once it received this in 
writing, it would forward the advice to DAS, which it did the following month. DAS agreed it 
would provide cover for the part of the claim concerning nuisance, once the court papers had 
been amended to include this claim.
DAS received the amended court papers in December 2014. It asked for some further 
details. In January 2015 DAS confirmed that the nuisance element of the claim would be 
covered and sent terms of appointment and a claims management report to W.
W returned the claims management report in March 2015 but DAS said it wasnt complete. 
DAS advised Mr and Mrs K of this in April. In June W told DAS the amended papers had 
been submitted to court but not yet approved. DAS contacted W again in August, at which 
point W confirmed that its application to amend the court papers had been successful. DAS 
said they could now proceed with the nuisance claim and asked W about the professional 
negligence claim. W replied saying they thought they had already received instructions from DAS for the nuisance claim but in September said there had been a misunderstanding on 
their part about this.
It doesnt appear that DAS did then send a formal letter confirming that W were appointed to 
act under the policy in the nuisance claim. However, its clear from the correspondence this 
had been agreed and everyone involved was aware W was appointed to act for Mr and 
Mrs K in those proceedings. So I dont think there was any loss or harm to them as a result 
of that not being formally confirmed; it didnt affect the way the case was handled.
I appreciate it took a long time for cover to be confirmed between 2013 and 2015. But I dont 
think this was due to avoidable delay by DAS. I have set out in brief a summary of events 
during that period. And having considered this carefully, Im satisfied this was due to the time 
it took to deal with obtaining counsels advice, amending the court papers and applying for 
the claim to be amended at court. I think it was reasonable for DAS to wait for that to be 
done; it wanted to be satisfied the claim did include an element that was covered by the 
policy.
In addition to the above delays, Mr and Mrs K say DAS also failed to deal with the 
professional negligence claim promptly, and they consider this arose from there being a 
conflict of interest.
Conflict of interest
Our investigator said a conflict of interest would arise where a solicitors separate duties to 
act in the best interest of two or more clients conflicts. His view was that for a conflict of 
interest to be an issue, it would need to involve a conflict between W and R (the other party 
in the proposed professional negligence claim). He didnt think there was any such conflict. 
And he said in any event W had told DAS the professional negligence claim was on hold 
until the outcome of the nuisance claim was known. If that wasnt correct, he thought any 
fault lay with W rather than DAS.
Mr and Mrs K have made a number of comments about this. They refer to the Solicitors 
Regulation Authoritys Code and say this means solicitors should not act if there is an own 
interest conflict (or substantial risk of one)  which includes where the duty to act in clients 
interests conflicts with solicitors own interests. They consider this was relevant in this case. 
They also say complex cases should not be given to panel solicitors and DAS should have 
appointed an independent firm.
I dont think its the case that complex cases should not be given to panel solicitors. There 
may be situations where the case is particularly complex, or involves a niche area of law 
thats not dealt with by the panel firms. But in my experience thats quite rare and many 
complex cases are handled by panel firms. The fact that this case may be complicated is not 
in itself reason to say a panel firm could not deal with it.
Mr and Mrs K say there is a close relationship between DAS and W and this gives rise to a 
conflict between their private interests and professional responsibilities. They say W couldnt 
fulfil their responsibilities to clients in those circumstances. They have referred to a court 
judgment which says where such a conflict arises  for example where the cover limit is 
likely to be exceeded  the insurer should have regard to its own interest and the insureds. 
And this may require the insurer to pay more attention to the insureds concerns or involve 
them in decisions. But its a matter of judgment and balance on the facts of each case.
Its not clear to me why Ws connections with DAS would have conflicted with their duty to 
act in Mr and Mrs Ks interests. Every solicitor appointed to act under an insurance policy will 
have a relationship with the insurer. The solicitors still have to remember their professional duties and act in accordance with them. And if there was a conflict, in the first instance its 
for the solicitors to consider whether they can continue to act.
Mr and Mrs K says DAS didnt pay attention to their concerns, particularly regarding the 
indemnity limit being reached and what impact that would have. And their main concern 
seems to be that the professional negligence claim against R wasnt pursued and they were 
given no explanation for this. They are concerned that W didnt pursue this claim because of 
its close relationship with DAS.
Having considered this carefully, Ive seen no evidence to make me think that was the case. 
Mr and Mrs K have pointed to correspondence they sent, chasing for the professional 
negligence claim to be pursued. DAS contacted W in April 2014 (after speaking to Mrs K) 
asking W to update her about this claim. And W replied to say it was on hold pending the 
outcome of the nuisance claim.
I know Mr and Mrs K say that was misleading. They dont agree that they said they were 
putting that on hold. But that was the information DAS received. I think it was reasonable for 
it to rely on what W said. And although there was further correspondence from Mr and Mrs K 
over the following months, this related to the nuisance claim; there was little if any mention of 
the professional negligence claim.
If Mr and Mrs K werent chasing it during that time, that would reinforce DAS view it was on 
hold - even if that wasnt Mr and Mrs Ks intention, it was how it appeared to DAS. From the 
information Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for DAS to take the view that was not being 
pursued at that time. Ive seen nothing to indicate there was any hidden agenda or that DAS 
and W were discussing this separately.
Handling of the costs assessment
Mr and Mrs K were ordered to pay some costs to the other side following a hearing in 2017. 
They thought the costs claimed were disproportionate and wanted to challenge these with 
points of dispute. They feel they should have been involved in the costs process and say the 
fact they were not consulted has led to costs being paid which could have been disputed. 
This affected them directly, since it reduced the amount of costs available to them within the 
indemnity limit, so they say they have suffered a loss as a result of not being involved.
DAS received details of these costs in 2018 and contacted the solicitors who were now 
acting for Mr and Mrs K (W were no longer acting for them). The solicitors advised DAS that, 
having taken instructions from Mr and Mrs K, they were content for DAS to deal with the 
points of dispute.
DAS instructed a costs assessor to assess the costs. It forwarded emails from Mr and Mrs K 
with some comments on the costs. The costs assessor then reviewed the costs and a 
settlement was agreed with the other side.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K were concerned about the costs being claimed  particularly 
as the amount was higher than the details given by the other side at the time of the hearing. 
But its standard practice for insurers to instruct costs assessors to deal with these matters; 
they have the relevant knowledge and experience. The costs assessor explained how they 
reached their view on the settlement. Mr and Mrs K said they could have requested a 
detailed assessment of the costs by the court. DAS thought this would have risked further 
costs being incurred, with no certainty the outcome would have been favourable.
Mr and Mrs K are also unhappy about the costs paid to W. Again, DAS referred these to a 
costs assessor who assessed them before they were paid.I think it was reasonable for DAS to put these matters in the hands of an expert, and to rely 
on their advice and settle the costs claims.
Mr and Mrs K consider some of the costs were a duplicate of costs they paid to W privately, 
and they were overcharged, but I think thats a matter for them to take up with W.
Failure to ensure the solicitors were acting in the best interests of their clients
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the way their case was handled and consider DAS should 
have done more to address this. Solicitors have their own professional duties and their own 
regulator. I cant comment on how W managed the litigation for Mr and Mrs K. I can look at 
DASs actions, but I have to bear in mind that they dont manage the solicitors, who are 
acting for their clients and have a direct responsibility to them under their solicitor-client 
relationship.
Where I would expect DAS to take action is once it is aware there may be an issue with a 
solicitor; if the policyholder raises concerns about how the case is being dealt with, the 
insurer should look into it  even if just to raise the concerns with the solicitor, get an answer 
and relay it back to the policyholder. So Ive considered DAS actions in this context.
There was some correspondence from Mr and Mrs K between 2013 and 2015 about delays 
in progressing the nuisance claim. Most of the correspondence they have referred to was 
with W. There were some emails with DAS but DAS did reply. And during that time, DAS 
was waiting for confirmation that the claim had been amended. I dont think there was any 
reason for DAS to have done more during that period.
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs K asked to change solicitor. DAS replied promptly to say it would 
look into this and then corresponded with the new solicitors Mr and Mrs K wished to use.
I cant see that Mr and Mrs K had raised concerns about their solicitors before that. DAS 
informed Mr and Mrs K about pursuing a complaint against the solicitors through their 
complaints process. And Mr and Mrs K may if appropriate pursue any such complaint to the 
Legal Ombudsman. I dont think there was any failing by DAS in relation to this.
I appreciate the litigation has been going on for many years. I dont doubt the whole 
experience has been very difficult for Mr and Mrs K. But I cant consider all of the issues they 
have raised over the years. Im limited to the matters set out above. And for the reasons 
given, I dont think their complaint about these issues should be upheld.
Replies to the provisional decision
Both parties replied. DAS accepted the provisional decision and had no comments to add. 
Mr and Mrs K did not agree and provided further detailed comments. In summary, they said:
they didnt complain in 2017 about the substantive issues and so we should consider 
all the points they have brought to us;
the provisional decision is superficial and doesnt address all the points they have 
raised properly, in particular in relation to the delays and the affect on their case of 
the conflict of interest, which DAS failed to address;
the delays dealing with the costs assessment were long and unreasonable and the 
provisional decision doesnt address the faults in the way the costs were dealt with.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K dont think the provisional decision addresses all the points they have raised in 
the complaint. Their comments are lengthy and detailed. I have not set them all out in detail, 
partly because many of them either concern issues that I cant consider, or are a repeat of 
points they have made previously. But I have been through their comments very carefully.
They say they didnt complain in 2017 about the substantive issues in the case. But they did 
express dissatisfaction with various matters at that time, which would be treated as a 
complaint under the relevant rules. And DAS addressed this in a final response. Another 
ombudsman has already reviewed that and made a decision confirming those points are out 
of our jurisdiction, so I cannot consider them.
With regard to the matters I can consider, the additional comments do not lead me to change 
my provisional decision. While I havent set out all their comments in detail, I will explain my 
reasons, focusing on the key points. 
Delays in claims handling; conflict of interest; failure to ensure the solicitors were acting in 
the best interests of their clients
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that it took over two years to put in place and progress the claim. 
I do understand why a timescale like this would be upsetting. But I dont think DAS was 
responsible for this delay. 
DAS confirmed that it would provide cover, subject to the policy requirements being met. The 
policy only provides cover for certain types of legal disputes and is subject to the 
requirements set out in the terms, including for example that a claim must have a reasonable 
chance of success. It was reasonable for DAS to wait until satisfied the claim met the 
relevant requirements before confirming cover. A key point was that the court proceedings 
did not, at that point, include an insured peril  in other words, a type of legal action that was 
covered by the policy. So they needed to amend their claim to include a claim for something 
that was covered under the policy terms. I
t took a long time for that to happen. Mr and Mrs K say its not reasonable to take over two 
years to sort out the court proceedings  they ended up instructing their own barrister, who 
dealt with it in a few weeks. But the day to day management of this was in the hands of W 
and DAS had no control over that. If it took W two years or more to sort out the court 
proceedings, thats not something I would hold DAS responsible for. And its not for me to 
comment on how the solicitors conducted the litigation; I can only look at how DAS handled 
the insurance claim.
I know Mr and Mrs K say they were complaining about the delays and DAS should have 
taken action to sort things out. They have again referred to correspondence they sent during 
that period. But most of that correspondence with was W, not DAS. When they contacted 
DAS in 2014, it did refer the issue to W, which is what Id expect an insurer to do. If a 
customer is repeatedly chasing their insurer about delays, I might expect the insurer to take 
further action, such as considering whether to appoint a different solicitor. But having looked 
through the correspondence again Im satisfied that wasnt the situation here.
Mr and Mrs K have said my reference in the provisional decision to litigation relating to 
breaches of covenants and nuisance from 2009 onwards isnt correct; it only started later. 
This was simply a brief summary of the background, explaining that they had been involved 
in disputes since 2009, and this brief summary wouldnt affect the outcome of the 
complaints. They also say it was incorrect to say they signed the client care letter in January 
2013, when it was in fact March. But nothing turns on that  the issue is why the claim wasnt able to proceed until 2015. And as Ive explained, my view remains that DAS wasnt 
responsible for the delays during that period.
With regard to the conflict of interest, Mr and Mrs K say W didnt pursue the claim because 
of its relationship with DAS  theres no other plausible reason for its lack of action in 2013 
and 2014, when W just ignored them and didnt pursue the case. I addressed this in the 
provisional decision. I cant look at the solicitors actions. As Ive explained elsewhere, most 
of their correspondence was with W. When Mr and Mrs K emailed DAS in late 2013, DAS 
did contact W and explained W was best placed to advise them, and would be in touch. I 
dont think the delay was due to any conflict of interest.
Mr and Mrs K say a director of W was also a director of DAS, and the relationship between 
the two businesses was so close there must have been a conflict of interest. DAS has 
explained that the person in question was a director of a firm of solicitors. Although it has 
some connections with DAS Legal Expenses, which is an insurance company, its not the 
same business. And in any event he resigned from that position in March 2013. 
Mr and Mrs K say another firm of solicitors refused to take on the case due to a conflict of 
interest. DAS has explained that it considered this at the time. The other firm of solicitors 
was concerned about possible harm to its commercial relationship. But when it raised this 
issue with W, they didnt think such a conflict existed and were happy to accept the case. Its 
ultimately for the solicitors to decide whether they can accept a case; thats a matter of 
professional conduct for them. Its reasonable for DAS to rely on solicitors to conduct a 
conflict check. 
In their reply to the provisional decision Mr and Mrs K have referred to court judgments 
about conflict of interest, but I note that the judgments concern indemnity policies. These are 
policies where the insurer is covering any award of damages or compensation as well as 
legal costs. So that wouldnt apply to this policy, which is cover for legal expenses only.
Costs assessment
Again, Mr and Mrs Ks comments on this issue in reply to the provisional decision are very 
detailed. However, I still consider it was reasonable for DAS to deal with this by instructing a 
costs assessor. This was also in line with policy terms, which explain that this is what will 
happen. 
 
There were some issues due to W not releasing their files. But DAS was not responsible for 
that and it did chase W for their papers. W said it couldnt release papers while dealing with 
an appeal, but would assist with any queries and sent a bundle of documents and comments 
in August 2017. DAS costs unit wrote to the defendants solicitors who said it was too soon 
to deal with the costs and they wouldnt be preparing their bill while there was an appeal 
ongoing in the litigation. 
W claimed its costs in December 2017 and these were sent to Mr and Mrs K in February 
2018 for them to provide their comments. In June 2018 Mr and Mrs Ks new solicitors 
advised that the defendants solicitors were now seeking their costs and the process for this 
was started. DAS wrote to the solicitors about a possible extension of time to respond. 
Mr and Mrs Ks new solicitors agreed that DAS could serve the points of dispute, and Mr and 
Mrs K gave their comments on the defendants costs. The costs were later settled by 
agreement. I know Mr and Mrs K were very unhappy with the amount paid. But the costs 
assessors explained their approach, saying the costs claimed by the other side were 
reasonable and there was no prospect of reducing the costs to the level Mr and Mrs K 
suggested.Having reviewed this carefully, its still my view that the way the costs were dealt with was 
reasonable, and was in line with the policy and normal practice. Its not for me to comment 
and the amount of costs claimed or paid.
For these reasons, and the reasons set out in the provisional decision above, Im not 
upholding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman