DRN-4475724
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd failed to close all of his accounts, which has affected his 
credit file.
What happened
Mr M says he paid off his three NewDay credit card accounts in or around 8 July 2022 and 
asked it to close the accounts. He says two accounts were closed but a third was not. Mr M 
says this impacted significantly on his financial position and affected his mortgage 
application. He would like compensation for what took place.
NewDay says Mr M contacted it online on 8 July 2022 to close two of his accounts which it 
did. It says it takes about 90 days for the Credit Reference Agencys to update their records. 
NewDay says Mr M then contacted it about the third account and it closed that account as 
well in October 2022.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and says there were numerous calls to NewDay about the 
third account and it was during a call he asked for all three accounts to be closed. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint and thought Mr M closed the two accounts online 
and that NewDay hadnt made a mistake.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary questions why he would pay off three 
balances and only close two accounts. He says he called NewDay after 8 July 2022 about 
closing the account and says he couldnt have paid off the balances online as he didnt have 
the account details.
I asked both sides for further information.
Mr M says it is unreasonable to expect him to provide evidence of the call to NewDay in July 
2022 and says it should provide them.
NewDay says it has searched again for call recordings without success and says Mr M made 
the payments via faster payment in July 2022 for the three accounts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at NewDays records and am satisfied it has searched, without 
success, for the call Mr M says he made in July 2022 in which he says he asked for all three 
accounts to be closed. I can see that Mr M has been unable to provide evidence of that call 
from, for example a telephone bill. I can see on NewDays records there is an online request 
to close two of the three accounts but not the third account.
So, I think on balance that Mr M made an online request to close his accounts which he did 
for two of the three accounts. I dont think on balance there was a telephone call by Mr M on 
that occasion and that it more likely than not, Mr M may have thought a request had been 
made for all the accounts to be closed. I say that as I think there is clear evidence on two of 
the accounts that the request to close them was made online and not via a telephone call. I 
think it likely NewDay and Mr M would have been able to provide evidence of a call if made 
and that it unlikely NewDayss account notes would have clear reference to an online 
request unless it was made in that way.
I appreciate Mr M says he couldnt have made the payments prior to closing the accounts 
online as he didnt have the account numbers. I can see the payments were made as faster 
payments and think it likely he had made payments in that way in the past. So, I think it likely 
such account numbers would have been recorded on Mr Ms online records from the bank 
he made the payments from. I can also see on 3 July 2022 it appears Mr M made an 
application for a Money Transfer which I think suggests he had online access as well as 
account details at that time.
It follows that I cant fairly hold NewDay responsible for the delay in closing the third account 
and dont think it made a mistake or failed to follow Mr Ms instructions. I have not seen any 
evidence from either party that follow up requests were made to close the account until 
October 2022. But in any event, I cant see what impact a delay in closing a credit card 
account which was not in arrears would have had on a credit file or mortgage application. I 
dont think Mr M has provided any evidence that the third account impacted on his mortgage 
application. 
Overall, I have no doubt Mr M intended to close all three credit card accounts but only sent 
two nor three messages to NewDay to close the accounts. I cant in those circumstances 
hold NewDay responsible for what took place and think it closed the third account when 
asked to do so. In any event I dont think a delay in closing an up-to-date credit card account 
would impact on a mortgage or credit application. I find this now brings an end in what we in 
trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2024.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman