DRN-2094287
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE didn't pay her enough when it settled 
her guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy.
In bringing this complaint Mrs S has been helped by her husband. But, for ease of reading, 
Ill refer to his comments as being those of Mrs S.
 
Background
Mrs S car was damaged in an accident and deemed a total loss. She received an insurance 
settlement of £8,000 for the market value of her car. Mrs S then claimed on her GAP policy 
for the difference between that sum and the amount she paid for her car, which was £9,800. 
Great Lakes settled Mrs S claim but only paid her £840. Mrs S didn't think that was fair as 
the difference between the sale price of her car and the motor insurance settlement is 
£1,800. She brought her complaint about that to us. One of our investigators looked into 
Mrs S complaint. She didn't think Great Lakes had dealt with Mrs S fairly. So she said it 
should pay her the balance of her claim which was £960. The investigator later contacted 
Great Lakes to say that if I upheld the claim I would also require it to add simple interest at a  
rate of 8% to the £960.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Mrs S complaint.
Mrs S had whats known as a return to invoice (RTI) GAP policy. The policy says that, 
where theres no finance outstanding on the car the insured amount is:
The difference between the Insured Value [the amount the motor insurer paid to settle the 
claim for the total loss of the car] and (1) the purchase price of the Insured Vehicle as 
confirmed by the Net Invoice Selling Price; 
So the insured amount was £1,800 which is the difference between the insurance settlement 
of £8,000 and the invoice price for the car of £9,800.
But Mrs S policy goes on to say:
Note: If the Net Invoice Selling Price of the Vehicle exceeds the Market Value, The Insurer 
reserves the right to adjust the claimed amount to reflect the Market Value of the Vehicle at 
the time of purchase. Any adjustment applicable will be deducted from the payment made.
The policy defines market value as the sum given by a well-known industry trade guide 
used for valuing second hand cars (the trade guide). And the trade guide valued Mrs S car - 
at the date she bought it - at £8,840. So, in line with the above policy term, Great Lakes 
settled Mrs S claim for the difference between the trade guides valuation and the insurance 
settlement for the total loss of her car which was £840. And as its acted in accordance with 
the policys terms Great Lakes thinks its settled Mrs S claim reasonably. So I've thought 
very carefully about that. 
When deciding if an insurer has dealt with their policyholder fairly and reasonably I can look 
beyond the strict policy terms and consider the wider circumstances of the claim. In this case 
Ive noted that the policy is called an RTI policy, not a return to the trade guides valuation 
policy. And it describes the insured amount with reference to the invoice price of the car. It 
doesn't at that point refer to the trade guide valuation. And I think it gives the impression that 
Great Lakes would settle a claim based on the invoice price. And it's clear that Mrs S had an 
expectation that if she made a claim any settlement would be based on the invoice figure. So 
I don't think the policy is clear. And where - as here - a policy document is unclear I must 
interpret it in the manner most favourable to Mrs S. So I think Great Lakes should settle the 
claim based on the invoice sum that Mrs S actually paid for her car. 
Also Mrs S has told us that before she bought the car she checked its valuation using 
another industry recognised trade guide. And having done so the selling price seemed 
reasonable. In other words she thought she was buying the car for a fair market price. So I 
don't think Mrs S would have known that the other trade guide, which she would have had to 
pay to look at, would have produced a significantly lower figure. So I don't think its fair for 
Great Lakes to use that figure when settling the claim.
It follows that I think it's fair for Great Lakes to settle Mrs S claim on the basis of the invoice 
price of £9,800. That means that it should pay her a further £960. And, as shes been without 
the benefit of the money for some time, it should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 
8% a year from the date of Mrs S claim to the date it makes payment.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to 
pay Mrs S a further £960 to settle her GAP claim. It should add simple interest to that sum at  
a rate of 8% a year from the date Mrs S claimed to the date it makes payment.1
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If Great Lakes considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate