DRN-2811626
The complaint
Miss N complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt promptly provide the 
information she requested about her mortgage endowment policy. 
What happened
In May 2020, Miss N asked Aviva to send her some previous valuations for her policy, along 
with her surrender form and transcripts of her calls with Aviva. 
Aviva provided the value projections, but not the surrender form or transcripts. When she 
complained, it provided the surrender form in late June 2020  followed by the call 
recordings, as it couldnt transcribe these. It paid her £100 compensation for the delay. 
Unhappy with this, Miss N referred the matter to our service. Our investigator agreed that 
Aviva had caused a delay, but thought it had already offered adequate compensation for 
this. Miss N disagrees. She says Aviva has caused her a huge loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Aviva didnt initially provide the information Miss N requested. I 
understand shes now received this, plus £100 compensation. All that remains for me 
to decide is whether thats a fair and reasonable way to resolve her complaint.
Our service doesnt make punitive awards. Our role is to redress loss suffered by a 
consumer due to the businesss error. So in this case, the key point Ive considered is 
how the delay impacted Miss N.
After requesting the information around 19 May 2020, Miss N received the value 
projections in a letter dated 4 June 2020. The surrender form was sent on 22 June 
2020. Shes confirmed the calls were sent on 28 June and 1 July 2020, aside from 
one which post-dated her initial request. That was sent on 1 September 2020.  
I accept it was frustrating and inconvenient for Miss N not to receive all the 
information initially. She had to put time and effort into chasing up Aviva. Overall, its 
clear she suffered distress and inconvenience due to Avivas errors. But she hasnt 
demonstrated that shes lost out beyond this. Thinking about the level of impact on 
Miss N, Im satisfied £100 compensation is a fair reflection of this.
Miss N says the errors have caused her to lose thousands of pounds. But she 
hasnt substantiated this loss, nor can I see how it reasonably stems from the delay 
shes complaining about within this case. By the time of her request, shed already 
surrendered her policy.
It may be that the loss Miss N is referring to relates to some earlier issues she 
complained about, regarding information she says Aviva failed to provide about 
surrendering the policy. But this was a separate complaint she raised with Aviva, and 
which our service responded to under a separate case. So I cant consider those 
issues within this decision. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss N. But for the reasons Ive set out, Im not 
persuaded that Aviva needs to do anything further to resolve this complaint  as Im satisfied 
its already paid Miss N fair compensation. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has 
resolved this complaint in a fair and reasonable way.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman