DRN-3843083
The complaint
Miss E complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) failed to protect her 
information when dealing with a gadget insurance claim. 
What happened
Miss E owned a Samsung TV which she insured through D&G. In March 2022, due to a
fault/damage she sent it to D&Gs authorised repairer. The agent deemed the TV beyond
economic repair and Miss E received a new TV (not Samsung).
Miss E contacted D&G at the start of July complaining that shed been charged for two films
Downloaded (30 June and 2 July) on her Amazon account. She says these werent her 
orders and having contacted Amazon, she was informed the downloads were done on a 
Samsung TV. Amazon refunded her the cost.
Miss E believes D&G should be held responsible as it seems the films were ordered from the
TV it had written off. D&G say it was Miss Es responsibility to log out of devices and it cant
be held responsible. And in any case, Miss E should provide the IP address so that the
device used to make the purchase could be identified.
Our investigator thought D&G should pay Miss E £100 compensation to reflect the distress
and inconvenience experienced in having to claim a refund and contact the police. He said
Miss E had provided evidence from Amazon confirming the purchases were made on the
same model TV D&G had written off and retained. He considered D&Gs authorised repairer
handling the claim should have completed a factory reset to clear stored data, and Miss E
had enquired with Amazon for the IP address, but this wasnt provided.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. I 
explained D&G had a duty, among others, to handle claims promptly and fairly and provide 
reasonable guidance to help Miss E make a claim and appropriate information on its 
progress.
It wasnt in dispute that theres personal responsibility to ensure data safety, equally I 
thought it was fair to expect insurers to give reasonable guidance when taking control of 
personal gadgets that may contain personal or sensitive data. Miss E only realised she 
wouldnt receive her television back after she had already handed it over to D&Gs repairer. 
And given the expertise D&G has in dealing with these types of gadgets I thought 
reasonable guidance would have been to inform her that as she wouldnt be receiving the TV 
back, she needed to take steps to ensure her data was deleted. In the alternative, the TV 
could have had a factory reset by the repairer, which would have deleted any saved data. 
Either of these steps would have mitigated the risk of Miss Es data being used for 
illegitimate purposes.
The crux of the dispute was whether the films were, on the balance of probabilities,
downloaded on Miss Es television that was in D&Gs possession. Im mindful that D&Gs
repairer had said the television was in secure storage at its premises when the films were
downloaded. Given there are obligations on businesses recycling electrical equipment Im
satisfied its possible the TV was with the repairer pending disposal.
The information Miss E had provided from Amazon showed:
The films were downloaded on a Samsung Ignition TV. Miss Es TV was Samsung,
but no evidence has been presented that it was an Ignition model.
The films were downloaded outside of business hours and so this tends to suggest
its unlikely the films were downloaded by the repairer.
I said there were many possibilities in play as to how or who downloaded the films, but it was 
impossible for me to conclude, on the evidence provided, that it was more likely than not that
D&G is responsible. As much as it could have been the repairer, it could have been 
someone with access to Miss Es account. As much as it can be said it was a Samsung TV
thats not to say it was the TV Miss E handed to the repairer. The IP address would be one
way of identifying at least the location of where the film was downloaded. Therefore,
because of the numerous possibilities on the how and the who and the inconclusiveness of
the information provided, I wasnt satisfied I could fairly find, on the balance of probabilities, 
that D&G was responsible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since issuing my provisional decision Miss E has sent further information to us. She hasnt 
been able to obtain an IP address from Amazon albeit the television was a 2017 model. 
D&G had no further comments to make.
Having reviewed the case again Im not persuaded to reach a different outcome. It remains 
the case that Im not persuaded it has been shown, on the balance of probabilities, D&Gs 
appointed contractor is responsible for the fact that Miss E had two films downloaded 
through her Amazon account. Im not satisfied it has been demonstrated the films were 
downloaded on the television that was sent for repair. It remains the case that there are 
many possibilities as to by whom, and how the films were downloaded: D&Gs contractor 
using Miss Es television is just one. And thats not sufficient for me to be persuaded, on the 
balance of probabilities, that D&G should be held responsible.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman