DRN-2518512
The complaint
Ms and Mr W are unhappy with the way that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG handled a claim
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms and Mr W were on holiday in March 2019. Mr W became unwell and was admitted to
hospital for around 20 days with chronic kidney failure. They are unhappy with the service
they received and the fact that ERGO hasnt agreed to cover all of their costs.
Initially, ERGO declined Mr Ws claim on the basis that his admission was linked to a
pre-existing medical condition which hadnt been disclosed. However, they later decided this
wasnt correct and agreed to pay 86% of the costs. On 16 March ERGO emailed Ms W to
say that theyd cover the repatriation costs in full and that theyd only need a contribution to
14% of the hospital bills. At that point in time the plan was to repatriate Mr W via a
commercial airline. However, it became apparent that Mr W wasnt fit to fly on a commercial
airline and so ERGO asked Ms W to make an upfront contribution to the cost of the air
ambulance of around £9000. Ms W paid this, although she says it wasnt made clear to her
that she was paying for the air ambulance.
Mr and Ms W complained to ERGO. In their final response letter ERGO said that Mr W
hadnt declared a medical condition and that, had he done so, theyd have charged an
additional premium of £29.13 on top of the premium hed paid. So, they said that meant
Mr W had only paid 86% of the premium he should have done, which is why theyd only
cover that percentage of the costs. They also said that theyd initially agreed to cover the full
cost of the repatriation as a gesture of goodwill and because, at that time Mr W was going to
return home on a commercial flight. ERGO said that when Mr Ws medical condition
changed he required an air ambulance which was significantly more expensive so they
asked him to pay his 14% share of the bill for the air ambulance. Mr and Ms W complained
to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the claim in part. She thought
that Mr W hadnt correctly declared his pre-existing medical conditions and that had he done
so hed have been charged a higher premium. So, she didnt think it was unreasonable for
ERGO to only cover 86% of the expenses. But, she didnt think it was reasonable for ERGO
to have declined the claim in full when the claim was first made. The investigator didnt think
that ERGO had acted unreasonably by not allocating a single point of contact and she noted
that the internal communication was well managed between the call handlers.
She thought that there had come a point on 23 March where ERGO should have started to
make arrangements for Mr Ws repatriation other than by commercial flight. She identified
that some other delays were down to unavoidable issues, such as bad weather preventing
the air ambulance from taking off. Whilst she didnt think ERGO had clearly explained that
the repatriation costs wouldnt be covered in full if Mr W had to be repatriated by air
ambulance, she thought it was fair that Mr W paid the 14% contribution towards the cost of it
because of the underpayment in the premiums. Taking into account all of the above she
recommended ERGO pay £850 compensation. ERGO accepted the investigators findings. 
Mr and Ms W asked an ombudsman to review their complaint. 
In December 2020 I issued a provisional decision. In summary I said: 
I was satisfied that ERGO had fairly applied the relevant legislation when offering a 
proportionate settlement of the claim
 
I thought that ERGO should have offered the proportionate settlement at an earlier 
point in time, on 13 March
ERGO had offered to cover the full cost of Mr Ws repatriation at a time when they 
thought hed be able to return home via commercial flight. When he couldnt be 
repatriated in that way, I didnt think it was unreasonable that ERGO reviewed that 
decision 
I thought that between Mr Ws admission and his repatriation Mr and Ms W had been 
treated fairly and reasonably. I thought that ERGO focused on getting Mr W home as 
quickly and as safely as possible. So I didnt think there was persuasive evidence 
that the repatriation was unnecessarily delayed 
Whilst I did consider there to have been some failings in the decision to decline the 
claim, I didnt think there had been other failings in the service ERGO provided
 
I thought £850 fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience caused when Mr and 
Ms W were told that they werent covered by their insurance and because they had to 
find a lot of money at short notice towards the cost of the air ambulance. I thought 
this had caused Mr and Ms W a lot of unnecessary worry at a difficult and stressful 
time. 
I asked Mr and Ms W and ERGO to let me know if they had anything further to add. ERGO 
accepted my decision. 
Mr and Ms W also accepted my provisional decision. They did echo their previous concerns 
that the decision by ERGO to give an undertaking to cover the costs of the repatriation and 
then renege on it was unfair. However, they said that whilst disappointed with my findings, 
they couldnt provide any new evidence or arguments and would accept my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any new arguments or presented any new evidence theres no 
reason for me to reach a different conclusion to that which I set out in my provisional 
decision.
I remain satisfied that £850 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and 
Ms W for the reasons I outlined above, and in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint to the extent Ive outlined above and direct ERGO
Reiseversicherung AG to put things right by paying £850 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman