DRN-3222849
The complaint
Mr Z complains that MBNA Limited was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr Z opened an MBNA credit card account in February 2016. He says that from June 2016 
he wasnt able to maintain his full payments and so interest was charged. His credit limit was 
increased in December 2016 and he says he wasnt asked about this increase. He says 
adequate checks werent carried out before he was provided with the credit.
MBNA issued a final response letter to Mr Z in February 2021. It said that in February 2016, 
Mr Zs account along with the initial credit limit was approved based on the information 
provided in his application and the results of its credit check. It said it adhered to the 
standards of good lending practice which applied to the extension of credit, and any balance 
or money transfers. It said that all charges had been applied in line with its terms and 
conditions.
Our investigator didnt think MBNA had done anything wrong by providing Mr Z with the 
credit card account in February 2016 with a limit of £9,000. However, she didnt think the 
checks carried out before the credit limit increase was applied were sufficient. She said if 
more thorough checks had taken place MBNA would have seen that Mr Z was only making 
the minimum repayments each month and had at least six other lines of credit open. She 
said that when Mr Z contacted MBNA in 2020 about his financial difficulties, MBNA had 
concluded he wasnt in financial difficulties. She noted that she hadnt received a copy of the 
assessment carried out at that time but based on the information provided she didnt think 
Mr Z was in financial difficulty at the time.
Our investigator recommended that MBNA refund any interest, charges and fees resulting 
from the credit limit increase in December 2016 and remove any adverse credit data relating 
to this increase from Mr Zs credit file. She also thought it should pay Mr Z £150 for the upset 
this issue had caused.
MBNA didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that before the limit increase Mr Z was 
making his payments on time and that he was on occasions paying more than the minimum 
amount. It noted he had other credit at the time but said there wasnt evidence that he was 
struggling financially. It said Mr Z had been notified of the credit limit increase before it was 
applied. It also noted that Mr Z hadnt made use of the all the additional funds provided by 
the limit increase and he had maintained his account well. It didnt accept that Mr Z having 
other credit cards at the time was enough to say the credit limit increase shouldnt have been 
applied.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before Mr Z was provided with a credit card account in February 2016 with a credit 
limit of £9,000 MBNA carried out checks and Mr Z declared an annual gross income 
of £45,000. I didnt have any information to show this income was verified but I also 
didnt have anything to suggest this wasnt an accurate figure. A credit check was 
carried out which showed £468 on secured lending and a further £2,516 on cards 
against a limit of £5,300. I didnt see any evidence that MBNA asked Mr Z further 
questions about his expenditure. However, Mr Zs overall indebtedness didnt show 
any issues and I didnt find that the credit information gathered raised concerns that 
would have required further verification. Based on the information provided thought I 
didnt find I had enough to say that MBNA was wrong to provide the credit card 
account in February 2016 with a £9,000 limit.
In December 2016, Mr Zs credit limit was increased to £12,600. Mr Z wasnt utilising 
the full amount of credit available to him at that time and while his balance was 
increasing it was still less than £5,000 in November 2016. Mr Z made his monthly 
repayments and in the eight months between opening the account and November 
2016, he had paid the minimum monthly amount on four occasions and more than 
that amount on four occasions (with him paying a much higher amount in September 
2016). So, while I understood the point Mr Z made that he wasnt paying the full 
balance each month he was managing the account in line with the terms and 
conditions and I didnt find that his account raised concerns that he might have been 
struggling financially at that time.
MBNA showed its system report that recorded Mr Z being sent an email about the 
limit increase in October 2016. Had he not wished to accept this he could have 
contacted MBNA at that time. Even if he hadnt seen the email, MBNA showed that 
he was then sent a text message confirming the limit increase in December 2016 so 
again he could have contacted MBNA about this at that point had he not wanted the 
additional credit.
While I accepted that Mr Z was notified of the credit limit increase and had the option 
not to accept it, this didnt mean that MBNA wasnt required to carry out reasonable 
checks before applying the limit increase. I agreed with MBNA that Mr Zs account 
management didnt raise concerns and I considered the other credit information 
provided from the time. This showed that Mr Z had other credit commitments, and 
that his credit commitments had been increasing over the previous months up to an 
amount recorded as £7,900 in November 2016. I agreed that having other credit 
commitments alone wouldnt mean that the increase shouldnt have been provided 
but I thought further questions could have been asked.
I looked at the additional information provided (including a recent credit report from 
Mr Z). At the time of the credit card increase, Mr Z had several other credit card 
accounts. I didnt have details regarding his usage of each of these at the time (but 
note the total of £7,900 shown in MBNAs checks). Based on the information I saw 
there didnt appear to be adverse information reported that would suggest Mr Z 
wasnt managing his accounts at the time. While some of the credit card accounts 
were opened in 2016 the others had been in place for a much longer time. Opening 
several accounts could show signs of financial difficulty, but as I had nothing to show 
that these accounts werent being managed well at the time and as they were 
opened a number of months before the credit limit increase I didnt find I had enough 
to say that the credit limit increase shouldnt have been applied.
Mr Z didnt make full use of the credit limit increase and his balance didnt exceed 
£10,000 before it was paid off in full in October 2020. So, even if I had concluded that 
MBNA should have done more checks here, it remained that there was no clear sign of this card causing Mr Z any detriment  beyond having to pay the contractual 
interest associated with it.
In 2020, Mr Z contacted MBNA about his financial situation. I agreed that there 
wasnt enough evidence to say that he was struggling financially at that time, and I 
noted he made a large payment towards his credit card balance around that time.
I understood why Mr Z was upset by the amount of interest he had paid on his 
account However, his statements clearly set out the interest chargeable and I had 
nothing to suggest he hadnt been charged in line with the account terms and 
conditions. 
Overall, I didnt find that I had enough evidence to say that MBNA was wrong to provide the 
credit card or subsequent credit limit increase to Mr Z.
Mr Z didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said: 
When he asked MBNA about the credit limit increase he had been told a letter had 
been sent. However, the provisional decision said he was sent an email and text 
message. He said this information was not provided to him when he had asked about 
this issue.
He wasnt complaining about the provision of the credit card but about the limit 
increase which he wasnt informed about and resulted in him getting into significant 
debt.
He wasnt managing his account well and was only making minimum payments 
against a large balance within the first few months of having the account. He 
reiterated the additional credit he had at the time and said he had made balance 
transfers on other credit cards. He said he was experiencing financial difficulty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered this complaint again along with Mr Zs response to my provisional 
decision, however, while I note the comments he has made I do not find that these change 
my conclusions.
I understand that Mr Z is upset as he feels he wasnt contacted about the credit limit 
increase. He was then told a letter had been sent. MBNA has explained that a copy of the 
letter is no longer available and given the time that has passed I cannot say this is 
unreasonable. While I cannot say for certain that a letter was sent to Mr Z as MBNA has 
shown its system reports of other communication about the limit increase, I think it 
reasonable to accept that Mr Z was provided with adequate notification of the credit limit 
increase.
I noted in my provisional decision that Mr Z appeared to be managing his account well 
before the limit increase. I note Mr Zs comments about this, and I understand that he was 
only making his minimum payment in certain months. However, as I set out in my provisional 
decision, he was making his payments in line with the account terms and was either paying 
the minimum amount or on occasions significantly more. He was within his credit limit and having considered his account management I do not find that this raised concerns that he 
might be in financial difficulty. 
I accepted that Mr Z had other lines of credit open at the time of the limit increase and I note 
the information he has sent about his balance transfers. I have looked again at the 
information provided and the credit cards he had in operation at the time. While I think 
further questions could have been asked, based on the evidence I have seen I do not find 
that I have enough to say his would have shown that Mr Z was in financial difficulty such that 
the offer of a credit limit increase shouldnt have been made. 
Overall, I do not find I have enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman