DRN-1844242
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about the failure by British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) to 
resolve a problem they had with their electricity supply in a timely manner which caused 
them stress and anxiety.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had a problem with their electricity supply cutting out. They reported this to BG 
with whom they have a HomeCare 4 policy on 17 September 2019. BG sent an engineer the 
same day. He diagnosed a loose connection. Another engineer attended the next day and 
undertook a repair. The engineer replaced two fuses but as he didnt have the correct fuses 
with him, he replaced them with fuses from another manufacturer.
Mr and Mrs D say that the engineer told them this was a temporary fix and recommended a 
new fuse box. His report stated hed done a repair with temporary non-brand parts and that 
hed raised a quote for a new fuse box. 
On 26 September, Mr D contacted BG and raised a complaint as they hadnt received the 
quote they were expecting. They say this was causing stress and anxiety to them both as 
they were worried that temporary non-brand parts wouldnt be safe for indefinite future use. 
He asked BG to explain why the supply and fitting of a new fuse box wasnt available free of 
charge under his policy as the repair that BGs engineer had done was only temporary, and 
if the temporary repair was completely safe, why a new fuse box was needed at all.
Mr and Mrs D have provided a letter from BG dated 18 September enclosing a quote and 
advising them that they had 28 days within which to accept it. Theyve also provided another 
letter from BG also dated 18 September advising them that it had recently provided a quote 
but hadnt heard back from them and reminding them that they had another 14 days in which 
to respond to the quote. Mr and Mrs D say both these letters arrived on 15 October.
Mr D wrote to BG on 15 October about these letters, alleging that theyd been backdated to 
show that they were a timely response to the engineer's request for a quote for a new fuse 
box, and not in response to Mr Ds complaint of 26 September. He asked for his complaint to 
be escalated.
According to its records, BG phoned Mr D on 28 November, and in that call Mr D was 
assured that the temporary repair would be safe but that there was no guarantee as to how 
long it would last due to the fuse-box needing to be replaced. He was advised that a 
replacement fuse box might be classed as an upgrade, which is why he was given a quote 
for, it as upgrades arent covered by his policy.
BG responded to Mr Ds original complaint of 26 September on 18 December. It said that the 
repair carried out on 18 September was in fact a full repair and not a temporary fix. It said 
that although the fuse box wasnt to current standards, it was still safe to use.  The 
engineers recommendation to upgrade the fuse box was given as best practice. In these 
circumstances it would always advise an upgrade. A new fuse box would only be provided 
free under their policy if BG wasnt able to obtain the correct parts to effect a repair and so 
there was no option but to replace the fuse box.
Mr and Mrs D maintain that BG deliberately tried to frighten and mislead them into paying for 
the provision and installation of a new fuse box despite the fact that they believe they were 
entitled to have this work done free of charge under the terms of their policy. They further 
maintain that it was only because they complained to BG that the fuse box should be 
replaced free of charge that BG changed its mind and said that the repair was a permanent 
repair despite the engineers report stating that it was temporary, and raising a quote for a 
new fuse box.  
Mr and Mrs D want BG to provide a new fuse box as well as some financial compensation 
for the worry and stress this has caused them. They brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigators view was that BG shouldnt be required to do anything to put things right. 
Mr and Mrs D dont agree with our investigators view and have asked that their complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. Its therefore been passed to me to give a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ds policy requires BG to undertake repairs, and only if a repair cant be done 
will a part be replaced. The relevant section of the policy states:
Making any improvements
Your product only includes repairing or replacing your boiler, appliance or system 
when it stops working properly  it doesnt include any improvements or 
upgrades, for example: replacing smoke alarms that are past their recommended 
replacement date or expiry date, replacing working radiators, swapping standard 
radiator valves for thermostatic ones and replacing electrical cables and 
fuseboards that still work.
The repair that BGs engineer did addressed the problem that Mr and Mrs D had with their 
power supply. So although the fuse box was no longer to current standards, BG has said it 
was safe. Mr and Mrs Ds complaint arises from BGs engineers description of the repair as 
temporary, and the fact that it took BG three months to confirm to Mr and Mrs D that their 
fuse box was safe, although replacing it was advised. It said that their cover wouldnt be 
affected if they didnt replace the fuse box. 
I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs D wouldve suffered stress and anxiety arising from their 
concern about the safety of the temporary fix that BGs engineer did. Mr D wrote to BG on 
26 September to say so. He stated:
Up until now, we have still to receive a quote for a new fuse box which 
[engineer] told us would be sent to us by post and this delay is causing stress 
and anxiety to both my wife and myself as we are worried that "temporary non-
brand parts" are not safe for us to continue using indefinitely.
Mr and Mrs D got a response from BG the next day saying their complaint had been 
received, but also saying that it could take up to eight weeks for a response. BG didnt 
respond to Mr D until 18 December. Nothing was done in the intervening period to clarify the 
position for them and to alleviate their anxiety.I need to consider whether, and the extent to which, BG is responsible for the stress and 
anxiety that Mr and Mrs D say they suffered.
I think it was reasonable for Mr and Mr D to believe that the repair was temporary because 
thats how BGs engineer described it. But I dont consider that temporary necessarily 
suggests a risk of danger, and Im sure no engineer would undertake any repair, temporary 
or otherwise, that would leave a customer exposed to danger. The word suggests the 
possibility that the repair might not last.
There was nothing on the engineers report in the nature of a warning, or anything which 
advised of the need for a permanent repair. Nor was another appointment arranged to fit 
parts that were preferable to those fitted on a supposedly temporary basis. If a new fuse box 
had been necessary rather than desirable, there wouldve been no need for the engineer to 
arrange for a quote, as a new fuse box wouldve been provided free under the terms of the 
policy. And Mr D didnt contact BG other than to send a complaint to BGs customer service 
department. As Mr and Mrs D were anxious, they couldve phoned BG for advice, knowing 
that a response from customer services might take eight weeks. 
As to Mr Ds view that the two letters both dated 15 September were in some way part of a 
cover up, I cannot see any evidence to support this so Im not going to make any findings 
about them.
So my conclusion is that there was clearly a misunderstanding as to the actual status of the 
fuse box and whether it posed an ongoing risk and needed to be replaced. This 
misunderstanding sadly caused Mr and Mrs D stress and anxiety. But whilst I have 
sympathy with how they felt, and an earlier response from BG to their complaint might have 
limited that stress and anxiety, I cant say that BG actually did anything substantially wrong 
here. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman