DRN-1865771
The complaint
On behalf of his company (H) Mr H complains that the National Farmers Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU) delayed in settling the claims H made on its Agricultural 
Vehicle Insurance policy.  
What happened
After H made a claim on the policy in October 2018, NFUs engineer inspected two baling 
machines used for haymaking that had been damaged in September 2018. He sent an 
estimate for the work to Hs chosen repairer, firm L. Firm L contacted NFU at the start of 
February 2019 to clarify costs and payment. It told NFU it wasnt going to order parts (which 
would take six weeks to arrive) until H had paid the policy excess and VAT for the work. H 
didnt do that until 23 April 2019, and NFU authorised the work two days later. Firm L said 
the work wouldnt be completed until June 2019, as it would take up to eight weeks in total. 
 
In May 2019, firm L told NFU the cost of repairs would be higher than its engineer had 
estimated. At that point, another NFU engineer looked at the claim and it then decided to 
split the repairs into two claims. NFU also decided (in error) that the claim for the first 
machine shouldnt be paid, as cover wasnt in place at the time of the incident. NFU says 
that Mr H had told the original engineer that the first incident happened on 18 September 
2018, during a brief period after the policy had been cancelled. 
Mr H wasnt aware of any of this until he called firm L on 6 June 2019 about collecting the 
machines. He was then able to show NFU that hed given the engineer dated photos of the 
damage, proving it took place on 6 September 2018 and so was covered. NFU re-authorised 
the claim on 14 June 2019. To get the repairs done quickly, Mr H then sourced parts from 
around the UK himself and diverted Hs staff from other work to carry it out. The baling 
machines were operational by 9 July 2019, but by that point H had lost two contracts for 
work in June 2019. Mr H later said H suffered other large financial losses as a result of 
NFUs errors, mostly from lost haymaking and fencing work. 
 
NFU accepted that two claims should have been set up from the start and that both were 
covered on the policy. It paid H £37,500 for the loss of the two contracts in June 2019, plus 
£900 compensation. Hs solicitors told NFU that Hs losses amounted to an extra £67,494, of 
which £6,548 was costs payable on the two contracts lost in June 2019. NFU said at best 
firm L could only have completed the repairs by 6 June 2019. It thought the claim for the loss 
of haymaking in May and at least part of June 2018 didnt reflect reality. And it didnt think H 
could substantiate - or attribute to NFU - the projected losses it had claimed on fencing. 
 
One of our investigators considered Hs complaint. He noted that NFU had appointed a firm 
of forensic accountants (firm T) to try to quantify Hs losses and had relied on its findings. 
In his view, the settlement offer made by NFU was reasonable, as estimating other losses 
was problematic, and projected business couldnt be guaranteed. 
Hs solicitors said NFU hadnt told Mr H as soon as it realised there was a problem with the 
claim. And it said firm T hadnt carried out a full investigation. Mr H said the loss of the 
contracts in June 2019 meant there was no cash to repair other machinery, and H had to 
hire a loader to carry out some of the planned fencing work. He said H had run up bank and 
finance charges due to its disturbed cash flow. Mr H also said that NFU had tried hard to 
contact him about a late payment, but it only made one call about the issue with the claim. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties have provided much information and have put forward numerous points in 
support of their views about Hs claim. I dont intend to address them all, but to confine 
myself to what I think are the major issues. 
I think NFU made a reasonable attempt to deal with the impact of its poor service by paying 
for the two contracts that were lost in June 2019 and by offering £900 compensation. And 
before deciding how to resolve Hs claim, NFU instructed  firm T, which I think was a 
reasonable step to take. Firm T said it wasnt easy to assess Hs financial losses, but it 
thought theyd been overstated. It also said Hs estimates were unclear, and that the period 
of loss seemed to extend to well after the date NFU compensated H. It didnt think H had 
mitigated its losses, included work carried out despite NFUs delay, or noted saved costs. 
 
NFU noted that the balers repair date wasnt guaranteed by firm L. As it had estimated up to 
eight weeks for the work after the VAT / policy excess were paid, that meant for most of the 
haymaking season (well into June) the machines would never have been available anyway. 
NFU said if H had paid the policy excess and VAT earlier, the machines would have been 
usable earlier. It said Hs last-minute payment for that showed H was in financial difficulty 
before NFU became involved. And so did the fact that Hs fencing machines (the lack of 
which had caused further losses) werent repaired in good time, despite NFUs delay. 
I think it was reasonable for NFU to rely on firm Ts findings. And I think the comments it 
made about Hs general financial situation seem fair, given the information it had seen. Hs 
solicitors said firm T hadnt carried out a full review of the situation, but theres no conflicting 
evidence in support of that view from accountants acting for H. Notes on NFUs file show 
that firm T had asked H for further details in support of the claim. 
I think NFU should have tried harder to contact Mr H in May 2019. But it isnt clear what 
impact it would have had on the outcome if Mr H had known about the problem a maximum 
of two weeks earlier. H would still have lost the June 2019 contracts and would have missed 
almost all of the haymaking season. I think the fencing work would still have been disrupted 
too, and on the limited information available to me, Im not able to say to what extent that 
disruption may have been reduced. The same applies to Hs banking and credit charges. 
Whats beyond doubt is that the prompt repair of the balers was crucial for Hs business to 
succeed in 2019. Given the date on which the VAT and policy excess were paid, there was 
very little room for manoeuvre should the parts be received late or should the repair date slip 
for any another reason. So regardless of NFUs errors, I think Mr H could reasonably have 
been expected to contact it  or to check with firm L - well before the expected date, that the 
return of the repaired machines was on schedule. I appreciate that he was fully employed in 
carrying out other work for H, but I think this was a vital issue to keep under review.  
In my opinion, H could have incurred some losses that should have been covered by NFU, 
but I can see why NFU wasnt prepared to pay more, based on the details presented to it.  I 
think it was reasonable for it to consider that there wasnt enough persuasive evidence on 
which to base any further payment. We asked NFU about the two extra payments (amounting to £6,548) that appeared to be due on the lost contracts for June 2019. It didnt 
respond directly to the question, but it said the £37,500 paid to H didnt take account of 
saved costs of £6,750. I think that seems to show that H didnt lose out on these items. 
     
I have great sympathy for Mr H, as its clear from his account of events that hes had to cope 
with very difficult personal circumstances, largely arising from Hs severe financial problems. 
But in order to uphold Hs complaint, Id have to be persuaded that NFU had acted 
unreasonably, and from what Ive seen, I dont think theres enough evidence of that. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed with my decision about Hs complaint, but its open to him 
to take action to pursue the matter elsewhere should he not accept it.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H on behalf of 
H to accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman