DRN-3915089
The complaint
M, a limited company complains about the way that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
handled its account.
M wants RBS to refund a penalty and administration fee imposed by HMRC.
M is represented in its complaint by a director, Mr M.
What happened
M held a business bank account with RBS. In April 2021, RBS restricted Ms account before 
closing it in June 2021. 
Mr M was unhappy that RBS closed Ms account without its permission and then transferred 
the money in the account to HMRC, leading to financial difficulties and professional 
embarrassment. 
RBS explained that it restricted and then closed Ms account after it received notice that M 
had been struck off the register at Companies House. RBS then paid the money held in Ms 
account to the Crown.
Mr M said he didnt know about the strike off until he visited a branch of RBS in May 2021. 
Mr M said M was still trading and was told by RBS that all it could do was to delay the 
payment to HMRC. But that if M was reinstated, HMRC would no longer be involved.
M subsequently applied to reinstate the company, before applying to open a new account 
with RBS. Before it would do this, RBS said M must register with HMRC for money 
laundering supervision. M was unhappy with this as RBS hadnt previously told it that it must 
register with HMRC. Mr M didnt think M needed to register with HMRC as it didnt receive 
cash payments and any fees were paid by third parties.
After M registered with HMRC and RBS opened the new account, HMRC applied a penalty 
against M for failing to register its business as an estate agency business. 
The investigator didnt uphold Ms complaint. In summary he thought RBS wrote to M about 
the account restriction and closure. The investigator didnt think RBS was wrong to close the 
account after M was dissolved. 
The investigator said hed seen no evidence that RBS advised M that if it reinstated the 
company, HMRCs involvement would cease. The investigator thought it was fair for RBS to 
send the money in Ms account to the Crown. 
The investigator thought it was reasonable for RBS to require confirmation that M had 
registered for money laundering supervision before it would open the new account. Overall, 
the investigator didnt think RBS was responsible for the HMRC fine or the fee M needed to 
pay to have the money returned to its account.
Mr M is unhappy with the investigators view. Mr M says RBS has a duty to keep its clients 
informed of changes. Mr M says that RBS failure to keep M informed of HMRC rule changes 
led to M being fined. Mr M says that if RBS had told M about the HMRC changes, it couldve 
avoided the penalty.
As M remains dissatisfied with the investigation outcome, the complaint has come to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Ms complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt 
mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
I appreciate M blames RBS for its failure to register with HMRC, but I dont agree. M is an 
estate agent. The requirement on businesses that carry out work defined as estate agent 
activity to register with HMRC is set out in legislation. I think it was for M to familiarise itself 
with the relevant regulatory requirements rather than for RBS to inform M.
RBS explains that when M first opened the account in 2018, RBS didnt include a 
requirement to be registered with HMRC. But this doesnt mean that the requirement didnt 
already exist under law. Its just that it didnt form part of RBSs account opening process at 
the time. I dont find this means RBS was to blame for M not registering with HMRC at the 
time. Particularly when M was already required to register with HMRC before it opened the 
account with RBS.
The terms of Ms account allow RBS to close an account on 60 days notice. RBS has 
provided copies of the letters that wouldve been automatically generated after it received 
notice of Ms dissolution. I have no reason to believe that RBS didnt send these to M 
although I appreciate Mr M says he only became aware of the situation after visiting the 
branch. 
I cant be sure exactly what was discussed in branch but the application form that M 
completed to apply to be struck off does say that on dissolution, all property and rights will 
be passed to the Crown. It wouldve been for the directors of M to make sure that any assets 
were dealt with before the company was dissolved. As there were still funds in Ms account 
at the closure date in mid-June 2021, I dont consider it unreasonable that RBS transferred 
them to the Crown.
It is unfortunate that M had to apply to be restored to the register and then pay a fee for the 
funds to be transferred back to its new account. But I dont believe this was the fault of RBS. 
It acted as I wouldve expected it to do after receiving the notice of dissolution.
Im sorry that my decision is likely to disappoint M but for all the reasons set out above, I 
dont uphold the complaint, so I dont require RBS to take any further steps.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman