DRN-3217157
The complaint
Miss I complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) terminated her 
finance agreement unfairly.
What happened
In August 2020 Miss I entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS for the purchase 
of a car. The monthly payments were £334.89 followed by a final payment of £10,948.75. 
The cash price of the car was £ 25,195.
Unfortunately, from around March 2021 Miss I was unable to work due to the Covid 
pandemic and has told VFS and this service that she made a number of attempts to make 
contact so she could reduce or defer payments. She says VFS didnt answer the phone. 
VFS sent a text offering support and this provided a link to an online form. She filled this in. 
but received no reply and on receipt of a similar text some weeks later she completed the 
form again. She believes she submitted the form some four times.
Miss I missed number of payments, but on return to work her direct debit was once again 
taken by VFS. Miss I thought VFS was aware of her situation and knew she would have to 
pay off her arrears. However, on 13 September 2021, she received an email from a 
repossession case handler notifying her that the agreement had been terminated and that 
theyd been instructed to take possession of the car or to collect the full settlement. 
She complained, but this was rejected by VFS. It said that she had started to fall behind with 
either late or missed payments in December 2020. It said that it had sent her a letter on 27 
January 2021, informing her of her arrears of £334.89.
It added that additional arrears reminder letters and notices of sums in arrears were issued 
to Miss I on 1 March 2021, 31 March 2021, 08 April 2021, 27 April 2021 and 21 May 2021. It 
said that it had also issued text messages to her on 10 February 2021, 16 April 2021, 23 
April 2021, 16 June 2021, 07 July 2021, 28 July 2021, 04 August 2021 and 25 August 2021.
Additionally, it noted that a Notice of Default due to arrears of £1,004.67was sent on 26 May 
2021 stated the full amount needed to be paid by 14 June 2021 in order to satisfy the default 
and highlighted the risk of further action if failure to do so.
A phone call was made on 7 July and a message was left asking Miss I to make contact. 
The account was terminated on 11 September. 
Miss I brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He reviewed the internal records held by 
VFS and saw no indication of a form being submitted by Miss I. He also noted that no 
payment was made between 4 March 2021, when a late payment was taken and the final 
payment was made on 22 July 2021. He thought it was reasonable to expect Miss I to have 
been aware of her direct debit being returned unpaid.
He also thought it would have been reasonable for Miss I to have endeavoured to get 
through to VFS on the phone. He did acknowledge that in the early days there were 
significant delays in call answering, but VFS had said these had reduced later on to around 
15 minutes.
Miss I didnt agree and said her difficulties in making payments had stemmed from Covid 
and she had expected VFS to be more supportive. She had no reason to assume the online 
form she completed had not been received by VFS. She had not received any of the letters 
sent to her by VFS and without proof of posting evidence she didnt think this should be 
accepted. She didnt consider VFS had been supportive or constructive in providing help and 
support.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Miss I , but I do not believe I can uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why.
Miss I was affected by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and this isnt something she could 
have anticipated. In respect of financial difficulties arising as a result of the pandemic, the 
FCA formally released guidance which came into effect on 27 April 2020.
Relevant guidance here includes: Financial Conduct Authority  Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) and in particular CONC 7, Arrears, default and recovery (including 
repossession). CONC 7 says that firms should consider consumers in default or in arrears 
difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. This could be in the form of waiving 
interest, deferring arrears payments, accepting token payments etc. 
Additional guidance was also introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority in April 2020 
and later updated. This guidance introduced temporary measures for consumers whose 
finances had been impacted by Covid-19. 
In relation to payment holidays or deferral periods  this guidance stated the following: 
Where a customer is already experiencing or reasonably expects to experience temporary 
payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to 
receive a payment deferral, a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 
months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the 
customers interests to do so.
In regard to the obligations of a firm where granting a payment holiday, the guidance says:
A firm should give customers adequate information to enable them to understand the 
implications of a payment deferral. For example, for a regulated credit agreement, this would 
include the consequences of interest that is accrued during this period and its effect on the 
balance due under the agreement and on future payments.
In summary there were options which were available to Miss I to help her financial situation. 
The question is did VFS take reasonable steps to make her aware of these and to engage 
with her in a constructive manner?
I have listed the occasions when VFS sought to make contact with Miss I above. I have 
reviewed the internal records and I am satisfied that the letters were sent and the texts issued as shown in those records. It is not necessary for VFS to produce proof of posting in 
order for me to be satisfied that the letters were sent. 
I recognise that there may have been some issues with post being delivered during 
lockdown and if there had only been one or two letters I may have had some sympathy with 
Miss Is arguments. But six letters and notices were sent by post. I am also satisfied that 
there were sent to the correct address.
Furthermore, I note that eight text messages were issued. It seems that some of these were 
received by Miss I as she has confirmed that she did act on them. I accept that she 
completed an online form on a number of occasions, but it also seems clear that she would 
have continued to receive texts explaining that she was still in arrears and so I would have 
expected that to make her aware of the situation and to prompt her to make contact.
I cannot say what happened to the online forms she completed. VFS has no record of 
receiving them. I cannot hold VFS to be responsible for any failure in this regard without any 
supporting evidence.  
In addition to the letters, notices and text messages VFS also called Miss I and left a 
message asked her to call and there is no record of her returning that call.
It is hard for me to conclude that VFS has done anything wrong given it made 
comprehensive attempts to engage with Miss I using a range of contact media. I consider 
she was given due warning of the impending termination and once it was implemented it was 
too late to reinstate the agreement.
I appreciate it is a most unfortunate situation in which Miss I finds herself, but I cannot say 
that VFS has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman