DRN-4406137
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr D complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) failed to process Mrs Es policy 
renewal correctly meaning no cover was in place, under her motor insurance policy.  
Ill refer to Mrs E in my decision for ease.
What happened
On 31 January 2023 Mrs E says she called UKI to advise of a change in marital status and 
to amend the named drivers occupation. She confirmed the policy should be left to auto-
renew. On 16 February she noticed no payment had been taken. She contacted UKI and 
was told the policy hadnt renewed. The policy was put in force, but UKI wouldnt backdate it 
to the original renewal. This meant there was a period when no cover was in place.
Mrs E says the gap in insurance could impact her in the future if she has to explain this to a 
new provider. She says she is an insurance professional, and her reputation couldve been 
affected. Mrs E says UKI shouldnt offer compensation that then drops away when a short 
complaint becomes a long complaint. She says Churchill should amend its systems and 
processes so that this doesnt happen in future. 
In its complaint response UKI says the failed renewal was due to a system fault. It says if 
anything had happened during this period it wouldve looked to indemnify Mrs E. It says it 
cannot backdate the renewal as per its business processes. 
Mrs E wasnt satisfied with this response and referred the matter to our service. UKI then 
offered a further resolution to include a compensation payment for £50. Our investigator 
didnt think this was fair as it had offered Mrs E £60 compensation in an earlier contact. UKI 
then offered an increased payment for £100, which Mrs E didnt agree to. Our investigator 
asked UKI to provide a letter confirming Mrs E wouldve been indemnified during the gap in 
her insurance. He also asked it to provide a response to all of Mrs Es concerns. 
UKI provided a letter of indemnity to Mrs E dated 24 August 2023. It subsequently provided 
a response to her remaining concerns. Our investigator upheld Mrs Es complaint. He 
thought it shouldve provided an indemnity letter. And says it didnt offer fair compensation 
until after Mrs Es referral to our service. But he accepted its comments that it was illegal to 
backdate an insurance certificate.
Mrs E didnt think the compensation offered was sufficient. She says both her and the 
named driver were affected by this issue and maintains that UKIs processes are flawed. 
Because she didnt agree, Mrs E asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mrs Es complaint. I agree with the outcome our investigator 
set out. This means I wont be adding to it. I understand this will come as a disappointment 
to Mrs E, but Ill explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Theres no dispute that Mrs E gave instructions for her policy to renew. UKI acknowledges 
this didnt happen due to a problem with its systems and says its technical team has been 
working on the problem. Mrs E raised a number of concerns and criticisms of the systems 
and processes UKI has in place. I can see that it provided a response to these concerns, but 
that she remained dissatisfied. 
Im sorry Mrs E isnt satisfied with the responses UKI provided. I can understand why she 
was concerned about the consequences of having no cover in place. As well as the need to 
explain a gap in cover to future insurers. But its not the role of our service to tell UKI how it 
should operate its business. This is something that more appropriately falls within the remit 
of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It is the regulator for the insurance industry. Our 
role is to consider individual complaints and decide whether a business has treated its 
customer fairly. This is what Ill focus on here. 
I think its fair that UKI wrote Mrs E a letter to confirm she was indemnified between 2 and 16 
February 2023. This represents the gap in cover due to the failed renewal. Mrs E can show 
this letter to any future insurer if the need arises. It took until August for UKI to provide this 
letter, and I accept Mrs E was concerned during this period. I can see that indemnity was 
mentioned in its original complaint response. But I understand Mrs Es concerns that the 
wording provided wasnt specific enough.
Ive thought about Mrs Es comments that UKI shouldve backdated her policy start date. In 
its submission to our service UKI provided information from its underwriters. This says it is 
illegal to backdate insurance on a vehicle or to produce a backdated certificate for cover that 
did not exist at the time. Mrs E hasnt provided information that shows this to be inaccurate. I 
note her comments that this isnt commercially sensitive information and UKI couldve 
confirmed this earlier. I agree that this wouldve been helpful as its complaint response 
referred to this restriction being due to UKIs business process, not that it was illegal. 
Because of this, and for the inconvenience and distress UKI caused due to its error, I think a 
compensation payment is appropriate. But as discussed I think UKIs offer of £100 is fair so, 
I wont ask it to increase this amount.      
Finally, although I note Mrs Es concerns about UKIs complaint handling, this isnt a 
regulated activity, which means its not something Im able to comment upon here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. UK Insurance Limited should:
pay Mrs E £100 compensation if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman