DRN-2209745
The complaint
Mrs B complains that TSB Bank plc issued debit cards for her current account that didnt 
work. She was sent seven different cards, and only the last one worked properly. She had to 
spend time contacting TSB about the matter and waiting to receive the cards and personal 
identification numbers (PIN). This meant that she was left without normal access to her 
money, and without a card for shopping. 
What happened
Mrs B applied for a current account with TSB in July 2019. She then received two separate 
debit cards with different account numbers on them. She contacted TSB about this, as she 
was concerned because shed only applied for one account. She was told to use one of the 
cards specifically and destroy the other. TSB paid Mrs B £50 compensation for the trouble 
she was put to, and £4 for her call costs. 
When she received the PIN number for the second card, she tried it in a cash machine but it 
showed it wasnt valid. So she contacted TSB again and it said the card hadnt been 
allocated to her account, and it would send her a third card. TSB paid Mrs B £27 in 
compensation for her call costs and inconvenience. 
But she had the same issue when she received the third card; then the fourth; the fifth; and 
the sixth card she was sent. Each time she was told the card hadnt been allocated to her 
account. It was only when she received the seventh card over four months later, that Mrs B 
had a working debit card for her account. Mrs B complained about what had happened.
 
TSB said that it was sorry for the issues Mrs B experienced with the debit cards issued to 
her. But it considered that the £75 it had paid her for the inconvenience this caused, along 
with the £6 to cover her call costs, was reasonable. This was because it believed that the 
account wasnt Mrs Bs main bank account, and she was able to transfer money in and out 
of it to receive the interest on her balance. TSB acknowledged that it had let Mrs B down by 
her not having a working debit card, but it didnt think shed been severely disadvantaged by 
this considering how she was using the account. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought TSB should pay an additional 
amount of compensation to Mrs B. She said that the problem with the card took four months 
to be resolved and the compensation it had paid to Mrs B so far was to acknowledge the 
issue with the first two cards she received, and for needing to be sent a third. 
The investigator also said that when Mrs B finally received a working debit card and asked 
TSB for compensation in November 2019, she didnt receive an update, so her frustration 
was drawn out for an extended period of time. The investigator thought TSB should increase 
the compensation in recognition of the time it took to resolve the problem. She said it should 
pay an additional £69 to Mrs B, making a total payment of £150.
 
TSB didnt accept the investigators findings. Although it accepted that it had let Mrs B down 
by taking four months to get her a working debit card, it didnt agree that this had any 
financial impact on her as she could transfer money out to her other bank account. It said 
that Mrs B hadnt used the card since October 2019, which suggested it wasnt urgently 
needed. It thought the amount it had already paid Mrs B was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate TSBs comments about how Mrs B has been able to transfer in out and of the 
account and met the criteria for the interest it pays on her balance, and so she hasnt been 
disadvantaged through not having a card. However, its possible that she may have used the 
account like this because she was without full and usual access to it through not having a 
working debit card for a lengthy period of time. 
I agree with the investigator that it was reasonable for Mrs B to expect to be able to access 
the money in her TSB account by all the means that shouldve been available to her, and for 
her to have been provided with the facilities offered with the account which included a debit 
card. 
Although Mrs B may not have been financially impacted by the issue with her card, in that 
she was still able to access her money by transferring it, it remains that she was caused 
frustration and inconvenience through the number of times she needed to be sent a card and 
PIN before she eventually received one that worked as it should, even if she then chose not 
to use it.
 
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, including the time Mrs B will have spent in contacting TSB 
about the numerous cards that didnt work for her account; waiting to receive new cards; and 
then having to test them to find out if the issue had been resolved or not, I think an increased 
compensation amount to a total of £150 would more fairly recognise trouble Mrs B was put 
to. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to pay Mrs B a further 
amount of £69, to make a total payment of £150, for the inconvenience she was caused in 
trying to get a working debit card for her current account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman