DRN-2835486
The complaint
Ms M complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to provide reasonable notice of its 
decision to reduce the interest rate payable on her savings account. Ms M also says there 
were unnecessary delays and that Nationwide failed to make adjustments when she decided 
to close her account and move her funds. 
What happened
On 1 April 2020 Nationwide wrote to Ms M to notify her it intended to reduce the interest rate 
on her savings account on 1 May 2020. The account was administered via a passbook. Ms 
M received the letter on 17 April 2020. Ms M has told us when she tried to call Nationwide to 
discuss her options she wasnt able to speak with the savings team.
On 28 April 2020 Ms M tried to call Nationwide to arrange for her account to be closed but 
wasnt able to get through. Ms M raised a complaint online. 
Ms M spoke with Nationwide the following week and was advised she could register for 
online banking, open a new account that could be operated online and use that account to 
transfer the funds to an external account. Ms M could then arrange for her passbook savings 
account to be closed and interest transferred. 
Ms M has explained that, to avoid a transfer fee, she had to send her funds via three 
separate payments. Ms M transferred the closing interest out of her account on 14 May 
2020.  
Nationwide didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint and said it had given notice of its intention to 
change the interest rate for her savings account in line with its terms. 
Ms M referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Nationwide had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Ms M asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms M feels Nationwide failed to provide a reasonable warning of its intention to 
reduce the interest rate for her savings account. Nationwides terms say it has to give 14 
days notice. But Nationwide wrote to Ms M on 1 April 2020 and the change took effect from 
1 May 2020. I appreciate Ms M didnt receive Nationwides letter until 17 April 2020, but I 
think that reflects delays experienced generally in receiving post. Whilst I agree there were 
delays with Ms M receiving Nationwides letter, I can see it gave additional time beyond the 
14 day period set out in the terms. I havent found that Nationwide failed to provide 
reasonable notice of its intention to reduce Ms Ms interest rate. 
Ms M has explained her options for withdrawing funds were limited due to the lockdown. I 
understand why Ms M didnt want to visit her local branch. But as her account didnt have an 
online banking facility and was operated by a branch based passbook, her options were 
limited. I agree that the process for transferring Ms Ms funds out was clunky and had lots of 
steps. But, I havent been persuaded that Ms M was unreasonably inconvenienced. Whilst I 
can see the process took some time and Ms M had to apply for a new account (with internet 
banking facilities), Im satisfied that was a reasonable alternative to visiting a branch. 
Ms M has told us about difficulties she experienced speaking with Nationwide in the run up 
to her rate reducing. It appears the first time she called the savings department werent in 
the office. Subsequent calls werent answered in good time so Ms M made a complaint. I 
agree it wouldve been simpler for Ms M had her calls been answered. Nationwide has 
explained that staff shortages impacted its ability to answer calls. 
Nationwide has also explained it hoped to direct customers online to find the information 
required. I note Ms M wanted to discuss her options for retaining a savings account with 
Nationwide, but all the information about its products was available online. So there was an 
alternative source for the information Ms M was seeking. 
I can see there was a delay in Ms M withdrawing her funds but it was reasonably short. Ms 
M was able to complete faster payments by 9 May 2020 to withdraw the funds saved and 
move to another account. Ms Ms closing interest was paid around five days later. Given the 
circumstances impacting both parties at the time, I havent found there were avoidable 
delays or unfair treatment from Nationwide in this case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms M as I can see she did experience some inconvenience when 
trying to contact Nationwide and close her savings account. But for the reasons Ive given 
above, I havent found Nationwide treated Ms M unfairly so Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman