DRN-4334761
The complaint
Mr R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined his claim on 
his property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R owned a property that was unoccupied. In January 2022 he took out insurance for the 
property through a broker, that was underwritten by RSA. 
In December 2022 he made a claim after he discovered a leak from an internal water pipe in 
the loft. RSA declined the claim. It said there was an endorsement in the policy that excluded 
damage caused by an escape of water from an interior fixed heating or domestic water 
installation. And this would apply to the cause of the escape of water here, so cover wouldnt 
apply.
Mr R didnt think this was fair. He said he didnt agree the pipe would meet the definition of a 
fixed water installation as he said it was built into the walls of the building and couldnt be 
removed or changed as a washing machine or dishwasher could be. He also thought the 
wording of the policy was ambiguous and unclear. He made a complaint but RSA didnt 
uphold it, so he brought it to this service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said the endorsement RSA 
had relied on was a significant and onerous exclusion, so it had a responsibility to ensure it 
was made clear in the paperwork provided at the point of sale. And she didnt think RSA had 
done that. She therefore thought it should consider Mr Rs claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms, pay 8% interest on any reasonable costs Mr R incurred as part of the claim and 
pay £150 compensation to apologise for the inconvenience caused.
Mr R accepted our investigators outcome, however RSA didnt. It said the endorsement was 
clearly laid out on the policy schedule. And the broker had told it that it pointed it out to Mr R 
at the point of sale. 
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The endorsement that RSA has relied on here to decline the claim is as follows:
Cover is hereby excluded in respect of any loss of damage resulting from Escape of Water 
(Peril 6 Buildings and Peril 6 Contents) from any interior fixed heating or domestic water 
installation, washing machine or dishwasher.
Mr R purchased an insurance policy for his unoccupied property. It is standard for a home 
insurance policy to include cover for escapes of water, and as the property was unoccupied, 
this would likely be a key area of cover for Mr R. 
I therefore consider the endorsement to be an unusual and restrictive term. As it reduces 
cover for escapes of water significantly. And it is an unusual term for a policy to include. 
Under guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) insurers are expected to 
highlight significant and unusual terms clearly and outside of the main policy terms. 
Ive looked at the important information document and the policy schedule that RSA issued 
to Mr R at the point of sale. 
On the Insurance Product Information document it lists the key inclusions of the policy which 
includes:
Loss or damage to your buildings caused by things such as fire, lightning, earthquake, 
storm, flood, escape of water or domestic heating fuel, theft, malicious damage, subsidence, 
heave and landslip
It also lists key exclusions and restrictions on the cover, stating:
Are there any restrictions on cover?
Theft cover is limited to forcible or violent entry
Any amount exceeding £500 from any outbuildings relating to the peril of theft.
Any amount exceeding £2,500 from any outbuildings relating to the peril of Contents 
Temporarily Removed.
So while the document mentions that cover is included for an escape of water, it doesnt 
include any mention that this cover is significantly restricted. Even though it includes a 
section that specifically highlights restrictions of the policy. For an exclusion that reduces 
cover to such an extent, Id expect it to be highlighted here.
The endorsement does appear on the policy schedule. However it appears on the third page 
of the document. And as this was provided with an important information document that 
appeared to draw out the key aspects of the policy, I dont think this made such a significant 
policy term clear enough. I therefore dont think RSA met its obligation to appropriately 
highlight the term to Mr R. 
I note that Mr R bought his policy from a broker. And RSA has said that the broker told it that 
they did bring the endorsement to Mr Rs attention when the policy was sold. However RSA 
has provided no evidence to support this, other than a statement from the broker with their 
recollection of a phone call. 
Further, the complaint Im considering here is against RSA and not the broker. And it is 
responsible for ensuring its policy terms are clear in the documentation that is provided to 
the customer. This allows the customer to make an informed decision about the cover 
theyve purchased, and if they find its not suitable, cancel the policy within the 14 days 
cooling off period. And for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think RSA met its obligation to 
ensure the policy term was made clear.  Based on this, I think Mr R wouldnt have reasonably been aware of the endorsement in the 
policy. And as it was so restrictive and of such importance to policy cover, if he had, he most 
likely would have sought to obtain a policy that did contain full cover for escape of water.
For this reason, I agree with our investigator that RSA should put him back in a position that 
he would have been in if the term had been clear  with a policy that includes escape of 
water cover. So it should consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy, without applying the endorsement. In the event of a successful claim, if Mr R 
has made any payments towards claim related costs already, RSA should reimburse these 
and pay 8% simple interest to make up for the time he has been without the funds. 
In declining the claim initially, RSA has caused Mr R some distress and inconvenience. So I 
agree it should also pay £150 compensation to apologise for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to:
Consider Mr Rs claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions, without 
applying the endorsement. 
In the event of a successful claim, reimburse Mr R for reasonable claim related costs 
plus 8% simple interest on these amounts from the date they were paid for until 
settlement is paid.
Pay Mr R £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman