DRN-3521316
The complaint
Mr S complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) mis-sold him a Free-Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan. He feels he wasnt made aware of alternatives such 
as the in-house Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) plan with his employer at that time, 
which he thinks wouldve had lower charges.
Phoenix is responsible for the complaint as it was given by a business which now trades 
under its name.
Mr S is represented in his complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). But Ill only 
refer to him in my decision. 
What happened
Mr S took advice from Phoenix in 1996 to take out an FSAVC plan. At the time, he was a 
member of his employers Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS).
A fact find was first completed on 20 April 1996. Follow up meetings were also held. At the 
time of the advice, the following information was recorded about Mr S:
He was 25.
He earned £18,500 a year.
He was single and had no dependants.
He had disposable income of £511 each month. After he changed jobs in October 
1996 his disposable income went up.
He was a member of his employers defined benefit OPS.
The adviser noted that Mr S wanted to contribute £132 each month, inclusive of basic rate 
tax rebate, into the FSAVC. This was equivalent to regular contributions of £100.32 net of 
basic rate tax. Mr S selected a retirement age of 55 for his FSAVC plan. His OPS had a 
normal retirement age of 65.
Mr S agreed to start an FSAVC plan on 7 November 1996, signing the application form on 
that date. It started on 15 November 1996. 
I understand that Mr S paid monthly contributions to the plan until May 2001. And then 
transferred it to another provider in November 2010.
On 21 August 2021, Mr S complained to Phoenix about the sale through his CMC. He felt 
that hed been miss-sold the FSAVC plan. He didnt think the adviser had made him aware 
of the very probable differences in charges between the FSAVC plan and his employers 
AVC plan in a meaningful way. He wanted to be put into the position that he wouldve been 
in if the incorrect advice hadnt been given. 
Phoenix issued its final response to the complaint on 2 September 2021. It didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said Mr S wouldve been provided with a product brochure before the plan 
started. And a leaflet which explained the advantages and disadvantages of taking out the 
FSAVC rather than making additional contributions to his employers in-house AVC plan. It 
said it had clearly stated that: the charges on an in-house AVC are almost always lower 
than those on FSAVCs. In some instances, the employer pays all the costs on the plan.
Phoenix also said that Mr S wouldve been provided with documentation at the point of sale, 
which explained that the FSAVC was a unit linked policy and as such the value wasnt 
guaranteed. Instead, the amount payable at retirement was dependent on the performance 
of the fund to which the plan was linked.
Unhappy with this response, Mr S brought his complaint to this service, through his CMC, on 
1 October 2021.
Phoenix consented to this service investigating the merits of the complaint.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt Phoenixs adviser had 
provided Mr S with information relating to the FSAVC and in-house AVC options. And that 
Mr S had therefore been informed in accordance with the regulators expectations before 
starting the FSAVC plan. He didnt think Mr S had been mis-advised.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator. Through his CMC, he made the following points:
His main concern was that he felt there was no evidence that hed been sufficiently 
informed of his in-house AVC options. He didnt consider that there was evidence 
that the detailed booklet Phoenix said itd provided to Mr S at the time of the advice 
had been received by him. 
He felt that if hed been told at point of sale that he could have an in-house AVC with 
considerably lower charges, he wouldve gone for the in-house option.
He felt that mis-selling of FSAVCs was rife at the time that he was advised to start his 
FSAVC plan. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Ive first looked at the regulatory position at the time of the advice.
Regulatory position at the time of the advice
The advice complained about took place in November 1996, although the initial fact find was 
carried out in April 1996. At this time, there were different rules on what advisers needed to 
do, depending on whether they were independent financial advisers or tied advisers.
Mr Ss adviser was a tied adviser. The rules he operated under meant he could only offer 
products from one provider - he wasnt allowed to sell products from any other provider. AVC plans were usually part of an OPS. As the provider of the AVC was often a competing 
provider in the marketplace, a tied adviser of the FSAVC provider wouldnt typically have 
investigated whether AVC options were better than the FSAVC the company he was tied to 
provided. They could only recommend the products provided by the company they were tied 
to. 
In May 1996 Regulatory Update 20 (RU20) was issued. This codified the procedures it 
expected product providers to follow in future sales. It said that before selling an FSAVC tied 
advisers should:
Draw the consumer's attention to the in-house alternative
Discuss the generic differences between the two routes 
Direct the consumer to his employer or the OPS for more information on the in-house 
option
RU20 also referred to the lower charges under an in-house AVC in general terms. It said:
Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs, reflecting 
economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration expenses by the 
employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this is likely to exert the greatest 
impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the client.
Both before and after May 1996, tied advisers needed to explain the generic differences of 
the AVCs and FSAVCs to the consumer. And advisers knew that the charges under the in-
house AVCs were likely to be cheaper.
I next looked at what both Phoenix and Mr S said about the complaint.
Phoenixs position
Phoenix said its adviser had provided Mr S with a product brochure and a leaflet which had 
clearly stated that the charges on an in-house AVC would almost always be lower than those 
on FSAVCs. 
Phoenix said that Mr S would also have been provided with a personal Illustration of benefits 
at the time of the sale. And that this wouldve indicated the potential returns at his selected 
retirement age. 
Phoenix said this was evidenced by the fact that Mr S was recorded as having signed 
paperwork which stated:
My/Our Abbey Life Associate has provided me/us with the following: the plan Key 
Features information
And that its adviser had also noted on the same paperwork: He also wants the 
confidentiality, flexibility and the portability that a FSAVC can offer him given his 
circumstances.
Mr S also plans to get married next year. Comparisons were made between in-house and 
FSAVCs and an explanatory leaflet discussed and left with him.
Phoenix felt that this showed that Mr S had been aware of the difference in charges before 
he decided to take out the FSAVC plan. And that it also showed that comparisons had been made between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC options before Mr S had decided to take 
out the FSAVC plan. So it didnt agree that itd mis-sold the FSAVC. 
Mr Ss position
Mr S felt there was no evidence that hed been sufficiently informed of his in-house AVC 
options. He felt there was no evidence that hed been given the detailed booklet Phoenix 
said itd provided to him at the time of the advice. He also felt that if he had been told that the 
AVC charges would likely be lower, he wouldve gone for the in-house option.
Mr S said it didnt state anywhere in the recommendation section, which hed signed, that 
FSAVCs were likely to be more expensive than the in-house AVC option. He felt that without 
such a statement, Phoenix couldnt fairly say itd had clearly explained the difference in 
charges.
Mr S also felt that mis-selling of FSAVCs was rife at the time that he was advised. As our 
investigator has already told him, this service cant comment specifically on this point. We 
view each complaint on a case-by-case basis, as I have done here. 
Ive carefully considered what both parties have told this service. Based on the regulatory 
regime at the time of the advice, Id expect the adviser to have made Mr S aware that an in-
house alternative was available through his OPS. And to have discussed the generic 
differences between the two options. Id also expect him to have directed Mr S to his 
employer or the OPS for further information if hed wanted it.
From what Ive seen, the paperwork signed by Mr S stated that the plan Key Features 
information had been given to him. It also said that hed been given an explanatory leaflet 
which compared in-house AVCs and FSAVCs. While the paperwork doesnt name this 
document, I consider that on balance of probability it was referring to a document that 
Phoenix has shared with this service called: The Main Features of In-House Additional 
Voluntary Contributions and An [former name of business] Free Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contribution Scheme.
This document contains detailed information about the differences between AVCs and 
FSAVCs. And contains a section called: Summary of Possible Advantages of In-House 
AVCs compared to [former name of business]s Free Standing AVC, which stated: 
The charges on an In-House AVC are almost always lower than those on Free Standing 
AVCs. In some instances, the employer pays all the costs on the plan.
And: A small number of employers are willing to pay an equal amount into an In-House AVC 
as the employee, up to certain limits.
The document also contains a section which stated that the charges within an in-house AVC 
plan would usually be either covered by the employer or be lower than those on an FSAVC 
plan. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr S was given this document before he decided to 
start the FSAVC plan. And that it met Phoenixs regulatory obligations at that time. I say this 
because the document clearly met the first two regulatory requirements Ive detailed above. 
And because I consider that it wouldve prompted Mr S to explore the in-house AVC options 
with his employer before making his decision to start the FSAVC policy, if he had any 
interest in the alternative options available to him at that time. 
As Im satisfied that Mr S was given the documents which explained the likely charges between the two options, and that these were discussed, Im persuaded that he was aware 
of the likely difference in charges before he made his decision to start the FSAVC plan. 
Therefore, while I acknowledge that Mr S told this service that if hed been told that the AVC 
charges would likely be lower, he wouldve gone for the in-house option, I cant fairly agree. I 
say this because Im satisfied that he was told the AVC charges would likely be lower, but he 
chose the FSAVC option anyway. 
I also acknowledge that Mr S said that it didnt state anywhere in the recommendation 
section, which hed signed, that FSAVCs were likely to be more expensive than the in-house 
AVC option. Ive looked at the application form and agree that it didnt. 
However, Ive also seen a copy of other paperwork Mr S signed at the same time as his 
application form. While I dont have the name of the document in question, it is headed Your 
financial commitment. And stated, right next to Mr Ss signature, that comparisons had been 
made between the in-house AVC option and the FSAVC plan. 
The signature page also included a number of Mr Ss reasons for wanting to take out the 
FSAVC plan, rather than the in-house AVC. These included confidentiality, flexibility and 
portability. And the ability to retire at age 55 from the FSAVC plan, while the OPSs 
retirement age was 65.
Therefore Im satisfied that Mr S signed documentation which included the reasons that hed 
given the adviser for preferring the FSAVC plan over the AVC plan. I consider that this 
shows that he had discussed the two options and made an informed decision to select the 
FSAVC plan. And, as I noted earlier, I consider that Mr S had also been given 
documentation which clearly stated that the charges on the FSAVC plan were likely to be 
higher than those on the in-house AVC plan. 
Overall, I consider that the evidence shows that Phoenixs adviser did clearly explain the 
difference in charges. And that it also shows that the adviser discussed the FSAVC and AVC 
options in detail with Mr S before he made his decision. 
Having considered all the evidence, Ive found no evidence that Phoenix failed to give Mr S 
suitable advice. I consider that the adviser met his obligations under the regulations at the 
time. Therefore I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman