DRN-3098252
The complaint
Mr W complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied when he handed back a car hed acquired under a hire purchase agreement. 
  
What happened
Mr W acquired a new car from MBFS through a hire purchase agreement in May 2017 for a 
term of 48 months. Mr W decided to end his agreement early and contacted VWFS to 
arrange a voluntary termination of the agreement on 25 July 2020. The car was then 
collected and inspected shortly after on 6 August 2020. 
Mr W says he was told by the inspector that the car was in a very good condition. However, 
the inspector pointed out that there appeared to be some damage to the door aperture seal. 
Mr W says this was the only damage he was made aware of at the time. Mr W says after 
this, he then received an email from MBFS advising him of damage to all four alloy wheels 
which MBFS were charging around £700 to repair. Mr W doesnt accept this damage and 
said that wear and tear damage to the alloy wheels and the damage to the door aperture 
was to be expected for a car which was three years old and had done around 52,000 miles. 
Above all of this, Mr W says his car went straight to auction and repairs for the damage 
MBFS intended to charge for werent carried out on the car.
Mr W said when he called MBFS to complain about the charges, he was told at this point 
that one of the alloy wheels would be refurbished instead of replaced  which would cost a 
lot less. MBFS say that the damage to the wheel Mr W refers to was too severe. So, the 
refurbishment was rejected and instead, he was charged for a new wheel.
Unhappy with MBFS response, Mr W brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into Mr Ws concerns. Ultimately, she said she thought it was fair for MBFS to charge 
for the two alloy wheels and damage to the door aperture. But she said it wasnt fair for 
MBFS to charge for the other two alloy wheels as the damage didnt appear to be visible. 
MBFS reviewed this and said they were prepared to remove the damage charges for the two 
alloy wheels our investigator suggested. This reduced the overall damage charge amount by 
£200.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view. He reiterated that the repairs werent carried out 
as his car was taken to auction and was sold as seen. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me.
I note MBFS also charged Mr W for the excess mileage he did above the agreed mileage 
when he first took out the hire purchase agreement. But as Mr W says he accepts this and is 
willing to pay for the mileage hes done above the agreed allowance, I havent considered 
this further in my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws finance agreement include a clause which says When it 
is time to return your vehicle whether that is at the end of the period of hire or earlier (when 
requested to do so), you must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle Return Standards. 
The terms then go on to list the Vehicle Return Standards and what is an accepted level of 
damage under these standards.
Ive set out the damage being charged for, why its being charged, the repairs needed and 
also the cost MBFS intend to charge:
1. Wheel LHF Polished alloy 
damageUnder 2mm deep over 20% rim or 
on spoke  Refurb polished alloy£85.00
2. Wheel RHF Polished alloy 
damage2-4mm deep over 20% rim or on 
spoke  enhanced polished alloy 
refurb£115.00
3. Wheel LHR Polished alloy 
damageOver 4mm deep - Replace £377.17
4. Wheel RHR Polish alloy 
damageUnder 2mm deep over 20% rim or 
on spoke  Refurb polished alloy£85.00
5. Door 
aperture 
seal RHFTorn Damaged  replace £49.80
As well as the MBFS vehicle return standards, the BVRLA has produced industry guidance 
to help determine what a finance company can charge for when a car is returned. This is the 
starting point for me as it represents good practice across the industry and is fairly detailed. 
So, Ive taken this guidance into account along with the vehicle return standards, when 
deciding whether MBFS acted fairly and reasonably in the charges they applied.
Ive looked at the photos of the damage from the inspection report provided by MBFS and 
make the following findings on the items of damages from the above table:
1 and 2. I agree with our investigator in that I dont think its fair for MBFS to charge for these 
damages. I say this because I dont think this damage is clearly visible in the pictures 
provided in the inspection report. So, I think MBFS ought to remove these charges.
3. I note MBFS standards say minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the vehicle alloy is 
acceptable, but anything above this isnt. Ive looked at the BVRLA guidance which says 
scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel and alloy are acceptable. So even 
if I consider this damage alongside the BVRLA guidance which is more generous in terms 
whats acceptable, I can see from the photo provided that the damage covers a large area of 
the rim, towards the left-hand side. So, I think this in excess of the accepted level of damage 
in the BVRLA guidance as the scuff appears to be more than 50mm. Therefore, I think 
MBFS have fairly charged for this.
4. Ive looked carefully and this picture and can see there appears to be a scratch on the 
wheel spoke. The BVRLA guidance says any damage to the wheel spokes isnt acceptable. 
Therefore, I think its fair for MBFS to apply this charge.
5. The BVRLA guidance says torn or split floor coverings and damaged surrounding trim 
panels arent acceptable. Having looked at this photo of this damage, I can see theres 
clearly a tear in the door aperture. So, I think this damage falls outside of the fair wear and tear standard. MBFS Vehicle Return Standards also note that torn aperture seals arent 
acceptable. With this in mind, I think its fair for MBFS to charge for this damage.
Mr W says when he spoke to an advisor at MBFS, she said that the left-hand rear alloy 
wheel (number 3 damage in the table above) would be repaired rather than replaced. MBFS 
acknowledge Mr W may have been told this at the time. But that upon further review, it was 
deemed the level of damage was too severe for a repair  they said if a repair was carried 
out to the wheel, this would render the car as unsafe as the area which theyd need to 
remove material from would prevent the tyre from being held in place securely. And theres a 
risk the tyre could come off the rim if the car was moving or at speed. So, its for these 
reasons MBFS said the wheel needed to be replaced.
 
Ive listened to the call between Mr W and the MBFS advisor. The advisor explained to Mr W 
that in her opinion, she thinks the wheel may be able to be repaired but that shed need to 
raise this further. I didnt hear the advisor say that a repair was definitely going to happen. 
However, in saying that, I do think the advisor couldve been clearer in setting out what the 
next steps were once shed raise the query further. Ive thought about the reasons provided 
by MBFS about why the wheel needs to be replaced rather than being able to be repaired 
and I dont find this explanation to be unreasonable. So, while I think the advisor couldve 
been clearer in explaining next steps, I dont think MBFS have acted unfairly in applying this 
charge. 
Mr W says he doesnt think its fair for MBFS to charge for the damage as the repairs werent 
carried out before the car was sold at auction. 
Theres no requirement for MBFS to have the car repaired and its up to them if they wish to 
sell a car at auction with damage. A car with damage will achieve a lower price at auction 
than a car without that damage, so its more likely than not that MBFS will have suffered a 
loss because of the damage. Even if MBFS hadnt carried out the repairs before the car was 
sold at auction like Mr W has said, I think theyre entitled to charge for loss of value at 
auction for damage that is outside of reasonable wear and tear. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. I require Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to remove the two charges which are for the Wheel LHF and Wheel 
RHF from the overall amount Mr W owes.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman