DRN-3765469
The complaint
Mr F complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) 
(MoneyBoat) gave him a loan he couldnt afford to repay. Mr F went on to say that the high 
interest rate had a damaging effect on his finances.
 
What happened
Mr F took one loan from MoneyBoat for £800 on 10 December 2021. Mr F was due to make 
six monthly repayments, five at £224.42 and the final repayment was £224.39. Mr F settled 
the loan early on 16 March 2022. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. He concluded MoneyBoat made a 
reasonable decision to lend the loan because based on the information MoneyBoat gathered 
the largest monthly repayment looked affordable for Mr F.  
He also said the interest rate was displayed in the credit agreement which Mr F had agreed 
when he took the loan. So, he didnt think MoneyBoat needed to take any action. 
Mr F didnt agree, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision.  He explained that after 
MoneyBoat received the results of its credit check it ought to have reviewed his finances in 
more detail. Had it done so, it wouldve discovered he had three current accounts which 
were near the overdraft limit and hed missed repayments. MoneyBoat also wouldve 
discovered that he had several credit cards which ought to have indicated he was under 
financial pressure.
 
Mr F also provided a full copy of his credit file as well as providing copy bank statements 
from two different banks covering the period of time leading up to this loan being advanced.
MoneyBoat didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr F could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Fs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr F. These factors include:
Mr F having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr F having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr F coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr F.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr F was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Fs complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied MoneyBoat carried out a proportionate check which showed it 
that Mr F could afford the repayments, Ive explained why below. 
MoneyBoat has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr F for details 
of his income and expenditure. Mr Fs income has been recorded as being £2,572 per 
month. Mr F also declared his monthly outgoings were £500. 
However, following further investigation such as MoneyBoat considering the results of its 
credit search (which I come on to below in more detail) it increased Mr Fs declared 
expenditure by a further £300. Taking his total monthly expenditure to £800 and leaving 
£1,772 in disposable income per month. This was more than sufficient for MoneyBoat to 
believe Mr F could afford the largest repayment of £224.42. The loan therefore looked 
affordable. 
Before this loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with a copy of the results it received. I want to 
add that although MoneyBoat carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement 
to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Therefore, its entirely possible that the information MoneyBoat received may not entirely 
reflect the information Mr F has provided as part of his actual credit report. There could be 
for a number of reasons for this, such as MoneyBoat only asking for certain pieces of 
information or Mr F having opened new accounts that wouldnt yet appear in the results provided to MoneyBoat. But what MoneyBoat cant do, is carry out a credit search and then 
not react to the to the information it received  if necessary.  
So, although Mr F has provided a copy of his full credit report, Im instead relying on the 
results received by MoneyBoat because Im satisfied this is what it actually reviewed before 
the loan was approved.  MoneyBoat was, in my view, also entitled to rely on the results it 
was given. Ive therefore reviewed the results to see whether there was anything contained 
within it that wouldve either prompted MoneyBoat to have carried out further checks or 
possible have declined Mr Fs application. 
Having reviewed the results, there isnt anything in them, that I can see that wouldve led 
MoneyBoat to have carried out further checks. For example, there werent any County Court 
Judgements, or any defaults recorded on Mr Fs credit file within the last three years (the 
period of time MoneyBoat checked). 
MoneyBoat was aware, Mr F had previously taken advance against income loans which are 
likely to be high cost short term credit loans such as payday between 2017 - 2019. But, 
based on the results provided, it doesnt suggest that Mr F had a number of these accounts 
outstanding at the time this loan was approved. 
While it knew about the current accounts, the overdraft balances had fluctuated over the 
months and so I dont think that on its own wouldve been enough for MoneyBoat to have 
carried out further checks.  
While it did know that Mr F had opened six accounts in the last six months  which could be 
a sign that possibly, Mr F was having problems after all, this was an average of 1 new credit 
account per month. This could be a sign that he was reliant on this type of credit. But, 
considering what else MoneyBoat saw in the credit results meant it was just about 
reasonable for it to have approved the loan without carrying any further checks. 
So, while I can see that Mr F has provided copies of his bank statements, I dont think 
MoneyBoat wouldve needed to have made checks to the extent that it wouldve been 
prompted to view these. Given this was the first loan I think it wouldve been disproportionate 
for these to have been considered. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to 
have relied on the information Mr F provided along with the income and expenditure figures 
to show he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to 
making. Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint about the loan.
There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr F was having financial difficulties or that 
the loan repayments would be unsustainable for him. 
Finally, Mr F is unhappy about the interest rate that he has been charged. As the adjudicator 
pointed out, Mr F agreed to the terms of the loan when it was granted, which included the 
interest rate. In addition, these sorts of loans are covered by the cost cap rules put in place 
by the industry regulator. Having looked at how much interest Mr F has been charged, it is 
less than the cost cap. So, in these circumstances I cant fairly say that MoneyBoat made an 
error with the application of the interest rate. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman