DRN-3298197
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly advised him to make a lump sum 
payment into his commercial mortgage account. He asks that it reduces his monthly 
repayments or writes off the remaining balance. 
What happened
Mr Ps commercial mortgage fell into arrears in 2016. He didnt maintain the repayment 
arrangement agreed with Barclays. Barclays sent a formal demand in April 2017.
After sending the formal demand, Barclays should have transferred Mr Ps account to its 
collections team. It made an error which meant this didnt happen. Barclays didnt record 
adverse data with credit reference agencies and Mr P was able to continue making 
payments into the account. 
In early 2020 Mr P says he spoke to Barclays and was told he could lower his monthly 
repayments if he paid a lump sum into the account. He made a lump sum payment. Hes 
since found out that all this did was reduce the balance owed.
Our investigator said Barclays had made it clear that a process had to be followed before 
making a lump sum repayment. Mr P made the payment before Barclays confirmed he could 
do so. Mr P made a further overpayment in July 2020, despite knowing this would only 
reduce the amount owed. Our investigator said Barclays hadnt misled Mr P about the 
overpayment and didnt recommend that Barclays should be required to write off the debt or 
take further action.
Mr P didnt agree. He said hed looked for solutions, such as leasing the property which 
Barclays refused consent for, and asked Barclays for advice. He said after numerous calls 
without a response from Barclays he decided to go ahead and do something to reduce the 
debt. He asked why Barclays didnt give consent to lease when it knew another business 
was using the premises. He said Barclays should be accountable for its error in not 
transferring the account to recoveries.
Mr P said he had to sell his property, has poor credit history and stress and anxiety due to 
Barclays errors.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint Mr P raised with Barclays and then brought to us was that he was advised to 
make a lump sum repayment. This is the complaint Im looking into here. I should also say 
that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened 
in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr P contacted Barclays in January 2020. He didnt receive a response and contacted 
Barclays again in February 2020. Mr P said hed sold a house and had £20,000 he could pay 
towards the debt. Mr P had already transferred this money to an account with Barclays. 
While Mr P says he was advised by Barclays to make the payment to reduce the monthly 
repayments or the term. On balance, I think this is unlikely. The person Mr P spoke to said 
they were in the process of getting paperwork for the account to check what needed to be 
done. Barclays says this would have included checking the loan agreement allowed 
overpayments, checking the account was up to date and reviewing business trading figures 
 which Mr P couldnt provide as hed ceased trading. I think its more likely Mr P was told a 
reduction in monthly payments might be possible, but this hadnt been confirmed when he 
made the payment. 
I understand Mr P was frustrated about having to wait for a response. But it was his decision 
to make the lump sum payment in February 2020 before hearing back from Barclays. In late 
March 2020 Mr P asked Barclays for reduced monthly repayments and a payment holiday. 
Barclays told him the account was with its collections team and it couldnt offer this. Mr P 
made a further lump sum payment in late July 2020  after hed been told his account was 
with collections.
Barclays made an error with the transfer of the account to its collections team in 2017. It 
says it didnt record adverse data with credit reference agencies and Mr P was able to 
continue making payments into the account. I think this might have caused confusion when 
Mr P called  his calls should have been directed to the collections team. However, I cant 
see that this caused Mr P financial loss. The account fell into arrears and the repayment 
arrangement failed before the error happened. The payments Mr P made into the account 
since then  including the lump sums  reduced the debt he owed. 
Mr P says he isnt responsible for the arrears in 2016 as he assumed payments would be 
taken by direct debit. He says he didnt receive letters sent to the business address until he 
chanced to visit the premises. However, he was aware of the arrears as he agreed a 
repayment plan, the failure of which resulted in Barclays sending a formal demand. 
Ultimately, it was Mr Ps responsibility to monitor his account, update his correspondence 
address if necessary and ensure repayments were made. 
Mr P took out a loan and, in fairness, he does have to repay it. This is a business loan 
secured on commercial premises. Barclays says as well as the arrears, Mr P breached the 
loan terms when he stopped using the premises for his business and let them out. Mr P says 
he wanted his overpayments to reduce the amount he had to pay each month. In fact, when 
Barclays issued the final demand in 2017 the whole debt became due and payable. 
I dont think making the lump sum payments caused Mr P a financial loss. The payments 
went towards repaying a debt that he owes. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Barclays to write off the loan balance.
Mr P said he had to sell his property, has poor credit history and stress and anxiety. While 
Im sorry to hear this, I dont think the difficulty Mr P has in repaying the loan is due to 
Barclays error. Mr P says he stopped trading due to his health, and the tenants he let the 
premises to arent reliable with rent payments. 
I can understand that Mr P is worried about repaying the remaining balance of his loan. I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to accept a lower amount per month 
that Mr P has been paying. Id urge Mr P to contact Barclays with the aim of reaching an 
agreement about repayment of the outstanding balance. He could also consider taking 
independent financial advice about what options might be available to him, such as re-financing with a buy to let mortgage.
Mr P raised further issues while the complaint has been with us, in particular that Barclays 
didnt give consent to let the property. Our rules say that we cant look into a complaint until 
its been raised with the business and the business has had an opportunity to respond. If 
Mr P remains concerned about these issues he should raise his concerns with Barclays. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman