DRN-2781095
The complaint
Mr A complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) registered a
fraud prevention marker against him without due cause. 
What happened
In January 2016, Mr A acquired a car through a hire purchase agreement with MBFS. Mr A
says he then gave the car to his relative to borrow for a day. The police then stopped the car
whilst his relative was driving it. And the car was seized as the police found Mr As relative
was driving the car without any insurance cover in place.
Mr A says it wasnt until March 2020 when he became aware that he had been referred to
the Cifas national fraud database. And a marker had been placed against him. Mr A settled
the agreement but has asked for the Cifas marker to be removed as its affecting him being
able to take out credit.
Mr A also complains about the service he received from MBFS  he says MBFS didnt make
him aware they had referred him to the Cifas national fraud database. And that when he
queried this with MBFS initially, he was told several times that a marker hadnt been placed
against him. Mr A also said he requested a number of call backs from MBFS but this didnt
happen.
MBFS say the car was seized by the police as it was being driven by an uninsured third
party (Mr As relative). MBFS also say through further investigation, they could see Mr A was
linked to a car leasing company and he was a director of this firm. MBFS believe the
agreement might've been taken out fraudulently as they had reason to believe the car was
being sub-let out.
MBFS say they arranged to recover their asset as it was deemed at risk and the agreement
breached. Due to the nature of this breach, a Cifas notification was filed. In relation to the
service Mr A received, MBFS say due to the nature of the reporting, their frontline staff wont
have access to the Cifas information. So, its for this reason, Mr A kept being told that a
fraud marker hadnt been placed against him.
Our investigator looked into Mr As concerns. In summary, he didnt think MBFS had done
anything wrong. He also explained that Mr A wasnt able to provide a copy of the insurance
policy he had in place when the car was stopped, but just told us that the insurance might
have been voided or cancelled when the car was seized. However, our investigator thought
MBFS should pay Mr A £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused in telling him the
incorrect information about the marker not being placed on him.
MBFS agreed with our investigators recommendation. However, Mr A didnt. In summary,
he said whilst he may have owned a car leasing company at the time, this doesnt mean the
car was misused in any way. Mr A says he was entitled to a car for his own use. So, the
complaint has been passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, setting out the below:
Before placing a fraud marker against Mr As name, MBFS needed to have a reasonable
belief that a financial crime had been committed and that the evidence was such that the
matter could be reported to the police. Cifas markers have a detrimental effect on peoples
lives and certainly on their finances, so a suspicion or concern isnt enough. So, Ive looked
at whether MBFS were fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence they had and the
investigation they carried out, and what the rules say about applying such markers.
The marker MBFS recorded was for misuse of facility. The misuse relates to the car being
sub-let out. For MBFS to record this, they dont need to be able to prove beyond reasonable
doubt that Mr A is guilty of an offence. But they are expected to be able to demonstrate that
there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been committed
or attempted.
The alleged fraud or financial crime here relates to Mr A subletting his car; which would
represent a false representation to MBFS regarding his intention to financially gain from this
agreement. MBFS would need to be satisfied that the evidence shows Mr A was deliberately
dishonest in his actions. The relevant finding for me to make, is not specifically what I
conclude was most likely to have been Mr As intentions and actions. Rather, my role is to
determine whether I think that MBFS have clear, relevant and rigorous evidence that gives
them reasonable grounds to believe that Mr A was involved in a fraud or financial crime such
that they would be able to escalate its concerns to Cifas.
I dont think MBFS have demonstrated that they were entitled to escalate their concerns to
Cifas, and I will explain why. I am satisfied from all the evidence provided that it wasnt Mr A
driving the car at the point it was stopped by the police. But for me to find that I think MBFS
had reasonable grounds to believe Mr A had been involved in or attempted fraud and
financial crime, I would need to be satisfied MBFS had suitable evidence that Mr As
intention when he took out the hire purchase agreement was to sub-let the car out.
I appreciate MBFS say upon further investigation, they were able to link Mr A to a car leasing
company, of which he was a director of at one point. And they had reason to believe the car
was being used by this company. However, I think what MBFS have said amounts to mere
suspicion which is not sufficient in and of itself to register a Cifas marker. Im not persuaded
that MBFS had enough on this occasion to say Mr A was sub-letting his car to his relative or
that he took out the agreement with the intention to sub-let the car.
I appreciate Mr As relative may not have had car insurance cover in place and when
questioned by the police, Mr As relative said that he had a trade policy in place  which the
police found to be untrue. However, this doesnt relate to Mr A himself and its also not
related to the question I have to decide upon - which is whether MBFS had enough to
demonstrate a fraud or financial crime has been committed or attempted by Mr A.
Taking everything into account, I dont think MBFS had enough evidence to meet the burden
of proof required by Cifas to add the marker against Mr A. I dont think it is fair and
reasonable for the Cifas marker to remain, so I intend to ask MBFS to remove the marker.
Putting things right
Whilst the Cifas marker was originally loaded in 2016, Mr A was not fully aware of it until he
received a letter from Cifas in 2020 who verified that he had a marker against his name. I
note Mr A contacted MBFS several times to find out why the fraud marker had been placed
against him. And he kept being told there wasnt one. I can understand why this would have
been frustrating for Mr A and I can appreciate that Mr A wanted to find out why this had been
applied  especially as he wasnt aware of this until receiving a letter from Cifas a few years
after it was recorded against him.Mr A says he has tried to open new bank accounts, but that he hasnt been able to. Mr A
also says hes been refused credit in the past and that he hasnt been given a valid reason
as to why. Whilst I dont have evidence to show the specific reasons why Mr A may have
been declined credit, as Ive explained, having a Cifas marker recorded can have a
detrimental impact on a consumers finance. So, I think its likely this would have impacted
Mr A being able to take out any new credit. Having considered all of the distress and
inconvenience caused, I think MBFS should pay Mr A £250 compensation in total.
MBFS accepted my provisional decision. Mr A responded and confirmed in his latest email 
to us that he was happy with my decision, but that he still wanted a copy of the call 
recordings between him and MBFS for his own record.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because both parties have accepted my provisional decision, and because no further 
evidence has been submitted that changes my mind, Im adopting my provisional findings as 
my final decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, and as I set out in my provisional decision, Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited should remove the Cifas marker that has been registered 
against Mr A and pay him £250 in total for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited to follow my directions as set out in the putting things right section of this 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman