DRN-2934453
The complaint
 Mr H complains that Devitt Insurance Services Ltd failed to provide him with enough 
information about the cost of his pet lifetime insurance policy. 
What happened
 Mr H purchased a lifetime pet insurance policy in 2009 to cover his pet dog. The policy is 
underwritten by a separate underwriter (Company A). Devitt is a broker and responsible for 
the sale of the policy as well as the administration of it. This is all provided under the brand 
of another company who Ill refer to as Company B.
The policy has renewed each year since inception and the cost has increased almost every 
year. These increases have become more significant in recent years with Mr H first 
complaining about the price increases in 2018.
In 2019 after receiving his renewal invite and seeing another significant increase in the cost 
of his policy, Mr H complained about the cost of his insurance again. He felt the increase in 
price was unfair and that the price was deliberately intended to put him off renewing. 
When making his complaint Mr H was informed that the underwriter Company A, no longer 
offered pet lifetime insurance policies and his insurance was on a closed book with no new 
business taken on since 2018. Company A made the decision to stop providing this 
insurance in 2013. Mr H feels not being informed about this means he lost the opportunity to 
shop around sooner and look for an alternative policy with another underwriter. His dog is 
now much older and he feels hell struggle to find a policy at a better price and any pre-
existing conditions will no longer be covered.
He feels Devitt had a responsibility to explain how the policy might increase in price overtime 
when it was first sold to him. And when it was clear Company A was withdrawing from the 
market, it should have explained this and the potential impact of this. Overall he doesnt think 
hes been treated fairly or provided with enough information to make an informed choice 
about the policy and has been disadvantaged as a result.
A separate complaint was set up against Company A to consider the price increases and 
whether these were fair as well as the information about its withdrawal from this market.
Our investigator looked at Mr Hs policy and said that she felt Devitt had failed to provide him 
with sufficient information about the policy and how the price could change overtime when it 
was first sold. She said although Company A set the price, Devitt as the seller needed to 
provide Mr H with enough information to make an informed choice and because it failed to 
do this it needed to do something to put this right. 
Our investigator recommended Devitt pay Mr H £250.00 for the trouble and upset caused 
when Mr H realised how his policy will continue to likely increase in price each year and the 
impact of this. She didnt think Devitt had done enough at the outset to explain this to Mr H 
and as he was unable to make an informed choice about the policy it was fair to compensate 
him for this.
However, she said the decision made to stop providing pet lifetime insurance was a 
commercial decision that Company A was entitled to make. The cover was still provided 
even if the business was no longer actively taking on business in this area. So because the 
cover was unaffected, she didnt think Devitt had acted unfairly when it didnt tell Mr H about  
Company As withdrawal from the pet insurance market.
Devitt disagreed with our opinion. It said that as a broker it was unable to know how the price 
of the policy might change overtime and certainly had little knowledge about the possible 
change in price ten years later. It felt it would have provided Mr H with clear information 
about the policy and the increases shouldnt have been a shock.
Mr H also disagreed with the answer. He didnt think the investigator had given enough 
consideration to the impact of Company A withdrawing from the pet insurance market. He 
explained how hes been told by Company A that his insurance will increase year on year 
now with the book being closed. This mean the risk increases each year as the remaining 
pets age and claim levels increase.
Mr H asked that he be provided with the evidence of what Devitt said it would have provided 
him with at the point of sale. He didnt think this could be considered commercially sensitive 
as it would have been shared in the past. He also questioned whether the relationship 
between Devitt and Company A prohibited Devitt from being able to share information with 
him about the change in Company As approach to this market.
Because both Mr H and Devitt disagreed with the investigators view, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr H is concerned about the cost of his policy and the affordability of this long term. 
But his premiums arent set by Devitt as the policy is underwritten by Company A. Hes 
raised these concerns with it and this is a complaint with our service. This complaint focuses 
on whether Devitt treated Mr H fairly when it sold the policy and whether it could have done 
more to keep him updated with changes made by Company A and its underwriting in this 
market.
Ill address whether I think Devitt did anything wrong when the policy was sold and whether I 
think it should have done more to notify Mr H when Company A withdrew from the pet 
insurance market.
Sale of the policy
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (ICOBs) sets out the rules insurers must 
follow, this includes the need to provide customers with:
appropriate information about a policy in good time and in a comprehensible form so that 
the customer can make an informed decision about the arrangements proposed
The information should be clear, fair and not misleading, drawing the customers attention to 
main provisions and highlighting any significant limitations or exclusions.
The policy Mr H has is a lifetime policy and these are often more expensive than standard 
policies as they provide a greater level of cover. A primary benefit is that any condition developed once on risk remains covered for the lifetime of the policy. As pets get older, 
claims on the policy increase and veterinary and medical expenses increase, its likely the 
cost of the insurance will increase and these increases can be relatively steep from year to 
year. And importantly theres no limit on how high the cost could be. 
I think Devitt should have explained the potential long-term cost of the policy to Mr H. I 
appreciate it thinks it is unfair to expect it to be able to know exactly how the price of the 
policy might change overtime. But as Ive said, these policies are often more expensive than 
a standard one and its fair to expect that Devitt would have known the price was likely to 
increase overtime even if it couldnt be clear on exactly how much. This should have been 
brought to the attention of Mr H. 
Devitt hasnt been able to show what was shared with Mr H when the policy was taken out. 
And based on what its said now, I think its unlikely it would have provided Mr H with enough 
information to understand how the cost of his policy might change over its lifetime. So I think 
Devitt failed to provide Mr H with clear, fair and not misleading information about the cost of 
his policy when it was taken out.   
Ive thought about how this affected Mr H. He wanted to insurer his dog for its lifetime with 
the peace of mind that any conditions not pre-existing at the point of inception would be 
covered. Based on this I think he may still have purchased the policy had the potential future 
price increases been explained. 
But I think the premium increase will have come as a shock to Mr H when he received the 
renewal documents as it hadnt been made clear that this might happen. He might 
reasonably have thought the price would increase overtime but I dont think hed have 
expected the increases to be as significant as they were and this will have caused distress.
I think the £250.00 recommended by our investigator is a fair amount to recognise the 
impact of this shock.
Company As withdrawal from the market
Mr H is unhappy that Devitt didnt do more to notify him of Company A withdrawing from the 
pet insurance market. He feels this information had a significant impact on his policy and the 
failure to do this has meant hed been unable to make an informed choice at renewal.
As Ive mentioned previously, ICOBs makes it clear that appropriate information about the 
policy must be provided and this must be in good time to allow the customer to make an 
informed choice. ICOBs 6.1.1B gives direction on the level of information needed. In short, it 
explains the level of information will vary according to a number of factors including the type 
of policy, knowledge and experience of the customer and complexity of the policy overall. 
When Company A withdrew from the pet insurance market in 2013 the Devitt policy with the 
brand of Company B wasnt in scope. This meant the policy continued with the lifetime 
guarantee and Mr H continued with the same benefits and exclusions the policy offered 
previously. This has remained unchanged after the book was closed to new business too. 
Devitt provided information with the renewal documents setting out the level of cover and 
any exclusions. And Devitt has said with the continuation of cover and its belief that the 
premiums at the time were in line with the market average it didnt think the withdrawal of 
Company A from the market had a negative impact on its policy. 
Having considered this, I dont think Devitt acted unfairly when it didnt share the wider 
information about the underwriter changing how it approached this market or when it later 
closed the book to new business. It provided Mr H with enough information to understand whether the policy provided him with the level of cover he needed. Most customers primary 
concern with their insurance is knowing they have the cover in place to meet their needs and 
as there was no change in the cover, I dont think Devitt needed to explain the background 
changes made by the underwriter.  
Devitt isnt responsible for the changes in price as this sits with Company A as the 
underwriter  a separate complaint has been brought against it. But I think its unlikely Devitt 
would have been able to anticipate whether Company As change to this business would 
have had a future negative impact  especially as it believed the prices at the time seemed 
in line with the market average. I still feel more should have been done to highlight the 
changes in cost likely to happen over the lifetime of the policy at inception but I dont think 
Devitt did anything wrong when it didnt update Mr H further about background changes 
which didnt affect his level of cover with the policy.  
Putting things right
To compensate Mr H for the distress experienced when realising his policy will and can 
increase significantly each year at renewal, Devitt Insurance Services Limited should pay 
Mr H £250.00.   
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Devitt Insurance 
Services Limited to pay Mr H £250.00. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2021.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman