DRN-3225796
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that Starling Bank Limited unfairly declined 
to consider a Bounce Back Loan application from it. 
Miss M is Bs director and brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
In addition to being Bs sole owner and director, Miss M is also the sole owner and director 
of another company (L). L obtained a Bounce Back Loan from Starling in May 2020.
Miss M wanted to obtain a Bounce Back Loan for B from Starling, but the bank declined to 
consider her request. It explained that under its policy, businesses linked by persons of 
significant control could only apply for one Bounce Back Loan. Miss M was the person of 
significant control for B and L  and L had already received a Bounce Back Loan from 
Starling. So it wouldnt accept a further application from a company of which she was a 
person of significant control. 
Miss M doesnt think Starling treated B fairly. She says B was also entitled to a loan under 
the Scheme rules  as her two companies werent part of a group, there was nothing 
preventing each from obtaining its own loan. She also says B couldnt apply elsewhere as it 
didnt hold a business account with any other providers.
When our investigator looked into things, he sympathised with the position that B found itself 
in and recommended that Starling consider an application from the company as an 
exception. But when Starling declined, he concluded that we couldnt fairly require the bank 
to take any action. In summary, he said Starling had been entitled to set the policy in 
question and had legitimately declined to consider Bs request in accordance with it.
Miss M didnt accept our investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There was nothing within the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme itself that rendered B 
ineligible for a loan on the grounds that another business owned and operated by its director 
had already received one. Rather, Starling decided as a matter of policy not to accept 
applications in such circumstances.
Ive considered the position very carefully and while Im sorry to disappoint Miss M as I can 
fully appreciate her frustration and disappointment, I dont think Starling did anything wrong. I 
say this because:
Starling was entitled to set the policy at issue here. While there were a number of 
rules and requirements that lenders were obliged to adhere to in rolling out the 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme, there also remained a level of discretion for lenders as 
to the basis on which they would accept and assess applications. Similarly, lenders 
were required to take steps to prevent fraud and were left with some freedom to 
decide how to achieve that  which included going above the minimum requirements 
of the Scheme rules. 
Starling has evidenced that the policy in question was expressly endorsed by the 
British Business Bank, the body responsible for the administration of the Loan 
Scheme.
Starling has explained that its policy was a means of ensuring it only provided one 
loan per business, which was a core requirement of the Loan Scheme. So it was an 
anti-fraud measure  preventing applicants from obtaining multiple loans, which was 
a significant concern. I think this was a reasonable measure for the reasons Starling 
has given  in that without it, the bank wouldve needed to make other changes to its 
systems. This wouldve been time-consuming and inhibited its ability to provide loans 
quickly, as was also envisaged under the Loan Scheme. 
The bank declined to consider an application from B in line with its policy  thereby 
treating B in the same way as it would treat any other customer in similar 
circumstances. There is no dispute that Miss M is the significant person of control in 
both B and L, meaning that Starlings policy only allowed one of the companies to 
obtain a Bounce Back Loan. As L had one, B was ineligible to apply to Starling.
B remained free to apply for a Bounce Back Loan elsewhere. And the fact that 
Starling had already provided L with a loan wouldnt have had any bearing on this. 
While I can appreciate that Bs options may have been limited, there were other 
lenders accepting applications from customers without an existing business 
relationship to which the company couldve applied. So Starlings decision didnt 
deprive B of access to the Loan Scheme.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman