DRN-3310347
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of repairs that Aviva Insurance Limited made to his cars 
windscreen following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants the cost of a 
replacement windscreen and compensation for his time and trouble. 
What happened
Mr Ms car had a stone chip on its windscreen, and he made a claim on his policy. Avivas 
agent assessed this and made a chip repair. Some months later, a crack appeared in the 
area and Mr M complained. He was directed back to the repairer who said Mr M would have 
to make a new claim or pay for a replacement windscreen. It said its terms and conditions 
stated that the chip repair was a temporary fix. Mr M was unhappy with this. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
because Mr M had made a claim on his policy, then its terms and conditions applied. These 
stated that Aviva gave a lifetime guarantee for repairs. Aviva said this included glass repairs 
and Mr M was entitled to a replacement windscreen at no cost. So the Investigator thought 
Aviva should pay for Mr Ms repair or replacement windscreen at his choice of repairer and 
pay him £100 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
Mr M accepted this. But Aviva disagreed. It offered to replace the windscreen itself, but it 
agreed to pay the compensation. Mr M said he would accept this if two aftermarket fittings 
were fitted as part of the replacement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mr Ms policy with Aviva states that any repairs it carries out under a claim on 
his policy have a lifetime guarantee. Aviva has confirmed that this applies to glass repairs. 
Mr M had his windscreen repaired following a claim made on his policy. So I think the 
guarantee applies and Mr M is entitled to a replacement windscreen. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr M could have this done by a repairer of his choice or 
by Aviva. When there is an issue with repairs, we think its reasonable to give the repairer an 
opportunity to carry out rectification. 
Mr M said he would reluctantly agree with this. And I can see that the relationship between 
him and the approved repairer has been strained at times. But I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Avivas approved repairer to assess the windscreen and fit a replacement. 
Mr M attached a condition to his agreement. He said he wanted two aftermarket items fitted 
to the new windscreen. He provided photographs of these and I can see that the approved 
repairer assessed these. It thought one fitting couldnt be transferred to the new windscreen 
and would need to be replaced. And it thought it wouldnt be able to guarantee the transfer of 
the other fitting. So I think Avivas agent reasonably considered Mr Ms request, but it then 
rejected it for commercial reasons.
Mr M thought that fitting these would restore his position. But this isnt what his policy 
provides. Ive looked at Mr Ms policy and I cant see that it covers aftermarket products that 
a consumer has fitted to their car. So I cant say that Avivas decision to decline to fit these 
was unfair or unreasonable. I think its for Mr M to arrange this if he wants to fit them to his 
new windscreen. 
Aviva agreed to pay Mr M £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused in this 
matter. I think Mr M could reasonably expect the repair to be carried out correctly the first 
time around. So hes had the inconvenience of arranging further repairs. Then I think he was 
wrongly told that he would have to pay for the replacement himself or make a new claim on 
his policy. And I think he had to press his case to reach a fair and reasonable resolution. I 
think £100 compensation for the impact of these errors is fair and reasonable as this is in 
keeping with our published guidance. 
Putting things right
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following, as its already agreed to do:
1. Carry out a full windscreen replacement on Mr Ms car (without refitting the two 
aftermarket products). 
2. Pay Mr M £100 compensation for the trouble and inconvenience caused by its handling 
of his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman