DRN-4000991
The complaint
Ms O has complained about the quality of a car she acquired, using finance from BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as ALPHERA Financial Services (BMWFS).
What happened
In July 2021, Ms O entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS, for a new car. 
However, in January 2022, she raised concerns about the safety of the car. Specifically, 
about a door not opening properly, and opening while driving. After failed attempts to repair 
the fault, Ms O rejected the car.
BMWFS agreed to this, and refunded an overpayment, plus the equivalent of two months 
repayments. But what remained in dispute was that Ms O felt she was entitled to a full refund 
of all of her monthly repayments. So she brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She thought that the refunds Ms O 
had already received were fair, as Ms O had use of the car for some time. However, she was 
satisfied that, as the car had been rejected, Ms O was entitled to a refund of the £1,500 
deposit. She also considered that Ms O should be paid £150 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Both Ms O and BMWFS accepted our investigators view. But the complaint has come to me 
for decision, because the deposit refund remains outstanding. BMWFS has queried whether 
Ms O has already received it. Ms O has confirmed that she has not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties have agreed with the investigators proposal, which I also agree is fair, for the 
same reasons. Whats left to me is to look at whats happened with the deposit. Ms O has 
confirmed shes not received it from the dealership, and I have no reason to doubt this. 
Accordingly, it remains outstanding, so BMWFS should pay it now. Im satisfied that BMWFS 
is liable to pay it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, which puts it in the 
dealerships shoes. Whether or not BMWFS is then able to reclaim it from the dealership is 
not a matter for our service.
Putting things right
BMWFS should refund Ms O her deposit. I understand she paid it in two instalments  one of 
£500, and one of £1,000. So BMWFS needs to add 8% simple interest a year, from the 
dates each instalment was paid, to the date of settlement. It must also pay £150 
compensation, if it hasnt already.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited, trading as ALPHERA Financial Services, to:
refund Ms O her deposit, adding 8% simple interest a year, from the date of each 
payment, to the date of settlement; and
pay Ms O £150 compensation, if it hasnt already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman