DRN-4396519
The complaint
Miss B complains about how Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) handled a claim 
under her motor insurance policy. When I mention Haven I also mean its suppliers and 
repairers.
What happened
Miss B had a motor insurance policy with Haven covering her car. 
In May 2023 her car was broken into by windows being smashed and she made a claim from 
Haven. Haven told her that her policy excess was £800 which was incorrect.
Haven collected her car and it was taken away. About four days later Miss B chased it up. 
Haven and its suppliers didnt know where her car was. 
Miss B had to chase up all of the companies involved, which meant long calls and a 
considerable time on hold. 
Haven then said her excess should be £100. Her car was returned to her but the windows 
werent fixed. She refused to take her car back. Her car was put in storage again and it took 
a total of three weeks and nearly seven hours of phonecalls for Miss B to get her car back, 
repaired. 
Miss B complained to Haven. She was left without transport for her family during this time. 
Haven said it would pay £100 compensation to Miss B. 
Miss B remained happy and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and thought it would be upheld. He thought Havens service had been poor and had 
caused Miss B inconvenience. He thought Haven should pay a total of £350 compensation.
Haven agreed with the view, but Miss B didnt. She thought the level of compensation should 
be higher. 
She asked that her complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Miss Bs complaint, but its important I say that I think the appropriate level of 
compensation Haven must pay is the same as our investigator has laid out. I appreciate this 
will come as a disappointment to Miss B and Ill explain why.
Its also important that I note that Miss B has also included a further complaint about Havens 
recording of this claim on an eternal database. She has said it didnt do this correctly and 
this has meant shes struggled to find insurance with other providers. 
I read her update with interest, but Im not able to consider it further here because I cant see 
that shes raised the issue with Haven and that its issued her with its final response on that 
matter.
Miss B is free to take that complaint to Haven, and then approach this service in due course 
if she remains unhappy with its response or if her complaint times out.
Having read the file I can see Miss Bs claim has involved a series of instances of poor 
service from Haven and its approved repairer.
Put simply, the claim, although shocking to Miss B, is of the type that should have been dealt 
with relatively quickly by Havens approved supplier as it was only about damage to glass. 
Instead, Haven gave her incorrect information, then took her car away into storage. But then 
didnt know where it was, meaning it couldnt arrange repairs. 
Miss B then had to chase up all of the parties involved simply to find out where her car was.
Its normal with an insurance claim to expect some level of inconvenience over and above 
normal life, but the amount of time Miss B had to chase Haven for is in excess of what Id 
expect. The nature of glass replacement often means relatively quick appointments can be 
made and then the replacements happen, but in Miss Bs case it simply seems as though 
Haven didnt understand where its own suppliers had taken her car.
Ive looked at this services guidelines on compensation and thought about the impact on 
Miss B. Shes said she struggle to get her family to their daily activities and spent 390 
minutes on the phone trying to progress her own claim. I will also mention that the usual 
level of award for loss of use of a car is £10 per day.
I find Havens lack of service during her claim remarkable and I can see from her evidence 
that the impact on Miss B was significant.
Taking everything into account, I think the appropriate level of compensation is £350.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint 
Haven Insurance Company Limited should pay a total of £350 compensation to Miss B. If 
any amounts of compensation have already been paid then they can be deducted.
Haven Insurance Company Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman