DRN-2658242
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) has treated her unfairly in relation to a 
car insurance claim.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties so Ive summarised events.
Mrs R was involved in a collision with a third party in March 2020.
She contacted Zenith to make a claim and explained what happened, saying it had 
been the other drivers fault.
The third party gave a different version of events to their insurer and blamed Mrs R.
Zenith initially indicated the best outcome it could achieve would be a 50/50 liability 
split. But it later agreed to settle the claim as a fault on Mrs Rs behalf given there 
was no dispute she had pulled out into the path of a correctly proceeding and 
oncoming vehicle.
Mrs R complained and Zenith agreed it couldve provided better customer service 
and offered £125 for the inconvenience caused. But it stood by its liability decision.
Our investigator considered the complaint and said Zenith had fairly based its liability 
decision on the available evidence. She also agreed Zeniths customer service fell 
short of what shed expect. But she felt £125 was a fair compensatory sum. 
Mrs R disagreed, reiterating her view that she wasnt at fault for the incident.
So the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isn't able to say whos at fault for causing an accident, as that is the 
responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether Zenith has carried out a fair 
investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and reached a reasonable decision 
when handling this claim.
Mrs Rs policy allows Zenith to take over and conduct the defence and settlement of 
any claim in your name This means it was entitled to settle the claim, on the best 
terms it thought fit. But it must exercise this right fairly and reasonably.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied Zenith took into account all evidence available 
when considering the claim. And while Mrs R disagrees with Zenith's decision to 
settle the claim as it did, Ive seen nothing to suggest it did this lightly or without 
proper consideration of all the evidence available. From what Ive seen it listened to 
her version of events and determined this wouldnt be likely to succeed in court. And 
Im satisfied this is in line with the policy terms.
Ive taken into account Mrs Rs comments, but these havent persuaded me Zeniths 
decision to settle the claim as fault was unfair nor unreasonable. I say this particularly 
in light of the undisputed fact that Mrs R had pulled her vehicle out of a parked 
position into the oncoming vehicle.
I agree with our investigator that Zenith couldve provided better customer service 
than it did. And that £125 compensation is a fair sum.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im satisfied Zenith has already made a fair offer of compensation. 
So my decision is Zenith Insurance plc must pay Mrs R £125 if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman