DRN-4179398
The complaint
Ms H complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) and their decision to 
settle her claim on a fault basis without holding the third-party responsible and recovering 
the costs from them. She also complains about the overall service she received during the 
claim process.
What happened
Ms H has a car provided under a Motability scheme. As part of this scheme, Ms H was 
covered by an insurance policy, underwritten by RSA.
Unfortunately, in March 2021, Ms Hs car was damaged while it was parked on her driveway, 
due to debris that had fallen from her next-door neighbours roof. So, she contacted RSA to 
make a claim for the damage repairs.
When Ms H made the claim, she made RSA aware there had been previous occasions of 
her neighbours roof falling onto her driveway. And that her neighbour, and her neighbours 
landlord, had failed to take steps to rectify the work she felt was needed to the roof. So, she 
made it clear to RSA that she wanted them to recover the claim costs, and her excess, from 
her neighbour or her neighbours insurer.
RSA arranged for the repairs to Ms Hs car to be completed. And in April and June 2021, 
RSA wrote to the third-party notifying them of the claim, explaining they were looking to 
recover their costs. No response was received from the third-party so, in November, Ms H 
chased RSA for an update. Following this, RSA found the third-party insurer (TPI) details 
and contacted them directly, providing Ms Hs testimony and the photographic evidence she 
supplied.
The TPI acknowledged and investigated Ms Hs claim. But in March 2022, they responded to 
RSA denying liability as they felt there were storm conditions present at the time the damage 
was caused. So, they didnt agree that their customer had acted negligently. RSA 
considered this response and, based on the evidence they had available to them, they 
abandoned the claim against the TPI. They made Ms H aware of this decision and she was 
unhappy about it, so she raised a complaint.
Ms H didnt think RSA had acted fairly on her behalf when deciding to abandon the claim. 
She felt her testimony, and the evidence she supplied, supported her belief that the damage 
was fault of the third party and so, she felt the costs should be recovered and the claim 
recorded against her as non-fault. Ms H also complained about the service RSA had 
provided, including their lack of updates and the time taken to progress the claim.
RSA responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought their decision to abandon 
the claim was fair in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Ms H held. Because of 
this, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Ms H remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Initially, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They thought RSA were entitled to 
settle the claim how they saw fit and that RSAs decision was a fair one, based on the 
evidence available to RSA at the time. And they initially felt RSAs service was reasonable, 
in line with what theyd expect.
But Ms H provided detailed comments explaining why she didnt agree. This included, and is 
not limited to, her belief RSA failed to take any action on the claim, or update her, between 
April to November 2021. Our investigator considered this, and having done so, they changed 
part of their initial outcome. While they maintained their stance on RSAs decision to 
abandon the recovery of costs, our investigator did think RSA couldve done more to 
progress the claim between June and November 2021. So, they recommended RSA pay Ms 
H £100 to recognise the inconvenience this wouldve caused.
RSA didnt agree with this, explaining the delay was due to the third-party not responding to 
their communication. And, that it wouldnt be fair to expect them to provide an update where 
one isnt available. Ms H also didnt agree, as she didnt think this amount was enough to 
recognise the distress and upset shes been caused, including the time taken dealing with 
our service. As neither party agreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain the 
role of myself, and our service. It is not my role to re-underwrite Ms Hs claim, as our service 
doesnt have the expertise to do so. Because of this, it isnt my role to speculate on how I 
wouldve looked to settle the claim. Instead, it is the role of me and our service to consider 
the actions RSA have taken during the claim process and think about whether they were fair 
and reasonable, considering the evidence available to them at the time. To do this, Ive 
thought about the decisions RSA have made and thought about whether the decisions they 
took fall in line with the policy terms and conditions and what I think other insurers wouldve 
done in a similar situation.
Im also only able to consider the actions of RSA, and the impact these actions had, up to 
the point they issued their final response. Any events that occurred, or any impact on Ms H 
after this time, would fall outside of our services jurisdiction to consider based on the rules 
set by the industry regulator. So, I havent considered Ms Hs concerns regarding the way 
RSA handled Ms Hs subject access request. And even if I couldve considered this issue, 
this would be best directed to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) who regulates 
the way data is held and shared within the UK. 
And I also havent considered the impact Ms H feels shes been caused by needing to raise 
a complaint with our service for the reasons Ive listed above. 
Im aware the main aspect of Ms Hs complaint centres around RSAs decision to abandon 
the claim they put to the TPI, who were acting on behalf of Ms Hs neighbour. Ms H doesnt 
think RSA fairly advocated for her, and that they failed to fairly consider the evidence she 
supplied. Whereas RSA feel they did consider this, but based on the evidence provided by 
both sides, they thought their decision to settle the claim as they did was fair.Ive carefully considered the terms and conditions of the policy Ms H held. This explains 
clearly that when Ms H made a claim, she must also be prepared to allow {RSA} to act in 
his or her name and take any steps {RSA} feel are necessary to protect his or her rights. 
This may mean that {RSA} defend or settle the claim in the Insured Persons name. If {RSA} 
does this, they will pay any costs and expenses involved.
So, based on the above, I think RSA were able to decide how to settle the claim on Ms Hs 
behalf, as long as they paid the associated costs and expenses. In this situation, I can see 
RSA have covered the costs of the repairs to Ms Hs car, less the applicable excess on the 
policy. So, I think RSA were entitled to settle the claim as they saw fit, in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
But as well as acting in line with the terms of the policy, I must also be satisfied the decision 
RSA took was a fair one. And as Ive explained above, to decide this, Ive thought about the 
actions RSA took and whether I think another insurer wouldve taken a similar decision in the 
same situation, with the same evidence available. And in this situation, I think they would. 
Ive seen that both RSA and the TPI looked into the weather conditions on the night Ms Hs 
car was damaged. And its not in dispute that on that night, the wind speeds met the criteria 
necessary to be classified as a dry storm, based on the Beaufort scale that the industry uses 
to categorise such instances.
This scale explains that, where there are wind speeds at this level, structural damage can be 
caused to buildings. And so, I can see the TPI stated to RSA that they denied liability due to 
this. 
So, for me to say RSA shouldve progressed the claim further and not settle the claim as 
they have, Id need to be satisfied they had significant evidence to dispute the TPIs stance. 
Or, that they failed to put the evidence they did hold to the TPI before liability was denied.
I can see that in November 2021, RSA submitted all of Ms Hs comments and photographic 
evidence she provided to the TPI. And within this, they confirmed Ms Hs testimony 
regarding two previous instances of debris falling off her neighbours roof. So, I do think RSA 
advocated on Ms Hs behalf, as Id expect them to do, as they gave the TPI all of the 
relevant information to consider.
And when the TPI denied liability, based on the fact the previous two instances of debris 
falling no claim was raised through them directly, and that the photographic evidence they 
had from this instance was of the debris rather than the roof itself, I dont think I can say RSA 
acted unfairly when taking the decision to abandon the claim at this point.
I would only expect RSA to continue to progress the recovery claim if they felt they had a 
reasonable prospect of success. And considering storm conditions were not disputed on this 
occasion, I dont think RSA were unfair or unreasonable to feel as though recovery was 
unlikely due to this. And I do think, on the balance of probability, another insurer wouldve 
most likely taken the same course of action, as every insurer will consider prospects of 
success, and the costs of any legal action compared to this. 
So, while I appreciate Ms H wont agree, I dont think I can say RSA have done anything 
wrong in the way they chose to settle the claim. It also follows that because of this, I wouldnt 
expect RSA to cover the cost of the excess Ms H paid, as this excess was applicable when a 
claim was made on her policy.
Ive then turned to the service RSA provided. While I do think RSA followed usual process in 
contacting the third-party, rather than the TPI, to begin with and that some of the delay was due to the third-party not replying to their communication, I do think RSA couldve done more 
to progress the claim in a more time effective manner.
Ive seen RSAs system notes which show they contacted the third-party in writing in April 
and June 2021. And that no further action was taken until November 2021, when Ms H 
contacted them seeking an update.
The system notes from this call suggest that RSA had the TPI details on file, and that they 
hadnt been contacted by this point. And the note goes onto explain that following a search, 
the handler had been able to identify an e-mail for the TPI and that the claim had been sent 
to them directly, rather than waiting for the third-party to contact the TPI themselves.
Following this, the claim progressed effectively, up to the point RSA decided to abandon the 
claim. So, based on this, I do think there was a period of four months, from July to October 
2021, where RSA couldve been more proactive in their approach and looked to have 
contacted the TPI instead of the third-party, considering they knew who the TPI was and that 
the third-party wasnt co-operating.
Due to the above, I think RSAs failure to act proactively led to the claim being open for 
longer than it shouldve been. So, I do think their service fell below the standard Id expect 
here. Because of this, I think RSA have acted both unfairly and unreasonably. Ive then 
turned to what I think RSA should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Ms H back in the position she wouldve 
been in, had RSA acted fairly in the first place.
In this situation, I think RSA would always have taken the decision to abandon the claim. 
But, had they acted fairly, I think they wouldve been more proactive in contacting the TPI 
and so, Ms H wouldve been aware of this sooner.
Had RSA been more proactive, I dont think Ms H wouldve needed to contact RSA directly 
to chase for an update in November 2021, and I recognise the inconvenience this wouldve 
caused. I also do think the length of the time the claim took to progress wouldve had some 
form of emotional impact on Ms H, who clearly felt strongly that the third-party was at fault. I 
also think, due to the length of time the claim took, it wouldve added to the upset Ms H felt 
when she was eventually told the claim would be abandoned and no recovery made.
So, I think RSA should compensate Ms H for the added upset and inconvenience shes been 
caused by their failure to act as proactively as they couldve done, and so the avoidable 
delays she experienced during the claim process.
Our investigator recommended RSA pay Ms H £100 to recognise this upset and 
inconvenience. And I think this payment is a fair one, that falls in line with our services 
approach and what I wouldve directed, had it not already been put forward. So, this is a 
payment I am directing RSA to make.
I think it fairly recognises the avoidable delays during the claim process which I feel RSA 
couldve prevented had they acted more proactively. But I think it also takes into account it 
was the third-party who chose not to respond to RSAs communication in April and June 
2021. And, that ultimately RSAs decision to abandon the claim was a fair one, based on the 
evidence they had to consider at the time this decision was made.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms Hs complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Ms H £100 to recognise the upset and inconvenience shes been caused by the 
avoidable delays during the claim process.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman