DRN-2350886
The complaint
Mr A complains that Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services mis-sold 
him an extension to his hire purchase agreement as it didnt make it clear he wouldnt be 
able to return the car at the end. He says this resulted in him losing money and being 
caused stress.
What happened
Mr A entered  a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in December 2017 for a new car. 
He decided not to acquire the vehicle at the end of the agreement term and instead placed 
an order for a different vehicle. However, the new vehicle wasnt available until after his 
initial agreement had expired and so Mr A says he arranged with the dealer for his 2017 
agreement to be extended. He says that in January 2019, Black Horse took the final balloon 
payment out of his bank account because the extension hadnt been put in place.
Mr A says that Black Horse agreed to refund the final balloon payment and told him he 
would need to put an extension agreement in place with a minimum of five monthly 
payments. He says the payments under the extension agreement were more expensive but 
as there was only a short overlap period with his new lease he agreed. Mr A says Black 
Horse knew he would want to return the car after the five months and he believed this would 
be possible, as had been the case with his original agreement. However, in May 2019 he 
says he was told he had to acquire the car at a cost of over £31,000. He didnt have the 
funds and had another vehicle and so he says he had to sell the car. He was offered 
£24,500 by the dealer and then managed to sell the car elsewhere for around £25,700 
meaning he lost over £5,000 on the sale. 
Mr A says the situation caused him a lot of stress and he wants the amount he lost refunded.
Black Horse issued a final response letter dated 17 June 2019. It said that all payments had 
been requested in line with the original agreement. It said it wrote to Mr A before the end of 
the original agreement about his options but as no response was received the final balloon 
payment was requested. It said this was in line with the agreement terms. Regarding the 
extension to the agreement, it said that it had provided Mr A with the correct information and 
he had said when this was being discussed that the dealer would be settling the agreement. 
It said no mis information had been provided and so it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr A didnt accept Black Horses final response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that there was no evidence to suggest 
the dealership had any involvement with the arrangement of the modified lease agreement 
and instead it contacted Black Horse in response to Mr As request for an extension. She 
said she hadnt seen evidence to show that the dealer had agreed to take the car back and 
settle the finance following the end of Mr As modified agreement or provide a guaranteed 
future valuation for the end of his extension.
Our investigator listened to the call on which the lease extension was agreed and said Mr A 
was told he would lose his return rights if agreed to the extension. This was also set out in 
the extension agreement and the pre-contractual explanation document. Based on this she 
wasnt satisfied there was enough information to say the modified agreement was mis-sold. 
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view. He accepted he had signed the agreement but 
reiterated that Black Horse knew he wouldnt want to acquire the car in May 2019 (as he 
hadnt wanted to in January 2019) and so it should have made it a lot clearer to him that this 
wouldnt be an option.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr A entered into a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in December 2017 to 
acquire a new car. The final payment (balloon payment) was due 13 months after 
the date of the agreement. I can see from the contact notes provided by Black Horse 
that Mr A was contacted in advance of the end of the agreement with his options. As 
Black Horse hadnt received a response from Mr A, the balloon payment was 
processed on the due date. I understand that Mr A had discussed prior to this date 
an extension of the agreement with the dealer and I can see from the contact notes 
that a settlement quote was requested on 4 January 2019. However, as I cannot see 
that Black Horse was made aware of Mr As intentions before the balloon payment 
fell due I do not find that it did anything wrong by processing this payment.
When Mr A discussed the issue of the balloon payment with Black Horse it agreed to 
cancel the payment and remove any adverse information that may have been 
recorded on his credit file. I find that Black Horse acted reasonably in response to 
this issue.
Mr A has explained that he visited the dealer in January 2019 and had agreed to a 
new agreement for a vehicle but that as this wouldnt be available for a few months 
the dealer had said he would contact Black Horse about an extension to Mr As 
existing agreement. He also mentioned on the call with Black Horse that he had been 
told by the dealer that Black Horse would contact him and to get in touch if this didnt 
happen. This didnt happen which was why the issue with the balloon payment was 
processed. However as it appears that the dealer didnt provide any details about the 
extension agreement to Mr A and instead said this would be discussed with Black 
Horse, I do not find I can say that the dealer mis-led Mr A or mis-represented the 
extension agreement to him.
As the extension to the agreement hadnt been set up, and I understand Mr A wasnt 
able to contact the representative from the dealer at that time, Mr A discussed his 
options directly with Black Horse. I have listened to the call with Black Horse and 
Mr A was given the option of a modifying agreement. He was told the details of this 
agreement and it was explained that the Pre-Contract Credit Information would be 
sent to him and Mr A should consider this before entering the modified agreement. It 
was explained on the call that the Goods Return Option and Guaranteed Future 
Value (GFV) shown on Mr As original agreement would no longer apply from the 
date of the modifying agreement. Based on this I find that Black Horse did provide Mr 
A with the information he needed to make an informed decision about whether to 
enter the modifying agreement. He was also given the opportunity to ask any questions and so had he been unsure of his options he could have asked this at the 
time.
I have also looked at the documents provided to Mr A. The modifying agreement sets 
out the payments required including the final payment amount. The box above the 
signature box also sets out that the terms and conditions of the previous agreement 
have been varied such that the Return of Goods Option will cease to be available 
from the date of the modifying agreement. I have also looked at the sample of the 
pre-contractual explanation that Black Horse has said was provided and this includes 
the information about the Goods Return Option and Guaranteed Future Value no 
longer applying.
The issues in this case seem to have arisen as Mr A thought he would be able to 
return the car to the dealer when his new vehicle was available and then have his 
agreement settled. Unfortunately I do not have any further evidence to show that this 
had been agreed and as I find Black Horse made the end of agreement options clear 
and this information was then provided in the agreements, I do not find I can say the 
modified agreement was mis-sold.
Overall, while I understand why Mr A is upset about the issues he has experienced, because 
of the reasons set out above, I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Black Horse Limited trading as 
Land Rover Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman