DRN-3875053
The complaint
Mr O complains about how Masthaven Bank Limited (Masthaven) opened an account in his 
trading name that Masthaven says has a two-year term when Mr O wanted a one-year term.
Background
Mr O applied for a business savings account with Masthaven in his trading name  S. 
Masthaven has sent customer journey slides. These are example screenshots to show the 
online application process that Masthaven says Mr O used. According to those slides and 
Masthavens explanatory notes on them:
The process begins with the customer entering the amount they would like to save  
which Masthaven refers to as the pledge amount. The customer then selects a savings 
term. Some terms in complete years can be chosen by clicking on a button for them - 
each button showing a corresponding interest rate. A slider or calendar button can be 
used to select other terms, and these dont have to be exact years. An interest rate and 
indicative cash return is then displayed based on the pledge amount and term selected.
The application then proceeds through general information and declarations and on to a 
summary of the account being applied for. This sets out again the pledge amount to be 
paid in, the interest rate and the fixed end date. General requirements for completing 
the application are also set out. Screens then follow to fill in details of the applicant and 
the business, including names, addresses and bank details. 
A cash transfer can be made once the application submit button is pressed. But the 
application wont proceed to that stage if more verification is needed, in which case a 
message appears that says Masthaven will be in touch by phone or email.
Mr O points out the slides are not dated - and he doesnt believe they show what was current 
at the time of his application in May 2021. The interest rates they show arent those current 
at the time of Mr Os application. The example term shown of 19 months with an end date of 
April 2020 dates the screenshots to around September 2018 and just before the earliest 
one-year fixed term business account rate currently quoted on Masthavens website. 
Mr O also says the slides show a level of flexibility rather than being a fixed term product. He 
has also told us he believes he tried to open his account online initially but couldnt because 
it was a business account so phone calls with Masthaven followed. 
Masthaven has sent two call recordings relating to Mr Os application. In brief summary:
In the first call Masthaven tells Mr O it is looking through his application, some parts of 
which (relating to shareholdings for example) it says werent filled in. The general nature 
of Mr Os business activities was established during the call as was that he was a sole 
trader and not incorporated. He told Masthaven he didnt operate a business bank 
account and that all his taxable income was interlinked.
In the second call Masthaven told Mr O it had to ask him where the pledged sum was 
coming from because it exceeded his declared turnover. Mr O said it was coming from 
other investments including a current account he had elsewhere earning nothing. Mr O 
explained the Masthaven account would give him a slightly better rate of return than his 
existing investments, and that he was trying to maximise his return on those because 
returns were pretty poor at the time. Masthavens resulting call note described the 
planned source of Mr Os pledged funds as being from business savings.
The specific interest rate to be paid on the account was not discussed during either call 
and nor was the length of the account term and Mr O didnt refer to his trading name.
On 7 May 2021 Masthaven sent an email to tell Mr O the account was open and ready to 
accept funds. It said he had a two-week window to pay in funds and Masthaven would then 
send him a personalised welcome pack in the post. The email refers to the account as a 
fixed rate account but doesnt mention a term.
Mr O made a series of cash transfers into the account between 8 and 11 May 2021. He at 
first told us the account may have been funded by the rolling over of funds from his existing 
personal account with Masthaven. He has since sent a screenshot for an account he held 
elsewhere. He has told us he used this to fund the Masthaven account using as a payment 
reference the phrase: 1 YEAR BOND  which is shown on the screenshot he has sent us. 
He has pointed out that later correspondence from Masthaven didnt refer to this payment 
reference or explain how it reconciled what he explains was an evident conflict.
Masthaven says a welcome pack was sent to Mr O on 24 May 2021 and that this would have 
confirmed the length of the term for Mr O. It says these packs were sent by a third party but 
based on data it passed to that party. Mr O says he didnt receive that pack. Masthaven has 
provided a screenshot it says shows the welcome pack was produced on 24 May 2021. It 
has also sent a screenshot showing data it says was sent to the third party for the purpose of 
populating the welcome pack. According to that data extract, the pack wouldve specified a 
term length and maturity date of two years not one year. It gives a 7 May 2021 account open 
date  consistent with the email above  and a maturity date of 3 May 2023. The interest 
rate referred to was 0.85%.
Masthaven told us it didnt keep a copy of the welcome pack itself and the only confirmation 
it had of what was in the pack was the data extract. We have since received, having asked 
Masthaven to go to the third party, what Masthaven says was the cover letter for the pack. 
This letter, which as Mr O has pointed out is undated, is correctly addressed to Mr O and 
refers to his account as a Flexible Term Business Savings account which it says: will 
mature 03/05/2023. 
As mentioned above, Mr O says he didnt receive this letter or the welcome pack. He has 
said what he received called the account a Flexible Annual Saver Account. Ive noted the 
welcome email Mr O was sent refers to a Fixed Term Account and Ive seen a screenshot 
for the account that refers to it as Flexible Term Business Savings. Neither say annual or 
annual saver but nor do they state a term length or refer to a two-year term.
Around a year after all this, Mr O called Masthaven believing his account was due to mature 
but he was told by the call hander that his account as shown on Masthavens system was 
not a one-year but a two-year account.
Masthaven says the account was set up entirely online by Mr O and with no involvement by 
Masthaven. It says the data extract sent to us is what it sent to the third party to produce the 
welcome letter and is an exact copy of the information that was input by Mr O when setting 
up his account online and there is no ability for any other party to change or manipulate that data. It says the data extract confirms the account was a two-year product. It says Mr O also 
set up a two-year account in 2018 and so is familiar with the account set up process.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Os complaint should be upheld. In summary, our investigator 
saw no evidence Masthaven had made an error with the account term, thought the data 
extract provided suggested the term was two years and was persuaded the welcome pack 
was likely sent to the right address.
Mr O didnt agree with our investigators conclusion. He made a number of additional points 
including, in brief summary:
There is no evidence he opted for a two-year term but a lot of evidence of less relevant 
points. This lack of the most significant detail is concerning. Phone records have been 
selectively withheld. Masthavens account of events lacks conviction in its language and, 
despite requests, data to provide definitive proof like a log-in history, screenshots or 
online application form. There is no way of showing that information submitted was 
correctly transcribed and not subject to error. He infers from other information received 
that the welcome pack data was populated later or set by an administrative or clerical 
input of data. Various ambiguities in what Masthaven has provided ought to favour a 
conclusion that its case has not been made out or should not be accepted. 
The welcome letter ought to have been sent electronically and is irrelevant anyway as it 
wasnt sent in time to allow him to cancel the arrangement and would only have led to 
the complaint being made sooner. What the terms and conditions are isnt clear, as they 
havent been produced, but a cooling off period is implied. Neither the key facts required 
by the regulator nor an easily understood overview have been provided.
He didnt knowingly select a two-year term. Committing to a two-year account made no 
sense for only an extra 0.05% return. Within days of opening the account he put a similar 
sum into another bank for the same interest rate and for a one-year period. To conclude 
that he did something different here wouldnt fit in with that. 
His payment references each time said the payment was to a one-year fixed term bond. 
Either this was the basis of his contract with Masthaven or else it was an inconsistency 
that Masthaven, if acting diligently, should have spotted given the large sums involved 
and so allowing a genuine mistake, if that is what it was, to be corrected. His recall is 
dimmed but he tried to clarify his one-year term instruction when he sent his deposits.
If there were anything definitive to show he requested, even unintentionally, the term 
Masthaven says, there wouldnt be a dispute. Masthavens claims shouldnt be taken at 
face value without corroboration. The possibility of error or even manipulation should be 
considered. An attempt to understand the workings of Masthavens underlying system 
and processes is necessary such as: What are the data extracts Masthaven has 
provided? Are they used to create real time entries into a database? How is the data 
derived, evidenced and corroborated? 
Masthavens records misleadingly say his funds were from business activity, contrary to 
his phone call. If that was a requirement, his funds shouldnt have been accepted. Also, 
to defy logic by calling the account flexible and to not use the term length to name the 
account like Masthaven used to, was misrepresentation. The email receipts didnt specify 
a term either and just said fixed rate. Also the term was not an exact two-year period.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why. 
I accept what Mr O says about wanting a one-year term. I accept the screenshot evidence 
he has sent shows he used a payment reference that referred to a one-year bond when he 
made transfers to fund the account. His use of that reference is in my view evidence that at 
the time of those transfers, which is the time he was taking the account, he believed he was 
paying into a one-year account. I think it reasonable to suppose that this indicates that when 
he set up his account Mr O did so with the intention at the time of selecting a one-year term, 
given the proximity in time between the transfers and his setting up of the account.
Mr O has further explained he preferred a one-year term because rates were low  and I 
note the rates available were lower than for the two-year fixed term (personal) account hed 
taken with Masthaven previously  and that he had taken a similar account elsewhere that 
was also for one year. All this in my view supports my point above about the term he wanted. 
In conversation with our investigator, Mr O told us Masthavens one-year fixed rate was 
0.85% and the two-year version offered only a fraction more so wasnt worth it. I note 0.85% 
is actually a two-year rate. This is according to the screenshots which show this is the rate 
on Mr Os account, which Masthaven says is a two-year fix. Also the historic rates currently 
on Masthavens website say this and say the equivalent one-year rate was 0.75%. Although 
the rates vary from what Mr O recalled for us, the difference between them is small like he 
recalls and lends support in my view to what hes said about not wanting a two-year account. 
So I accept Mr O wanted a one-year account, but I also accept his account is in fact showing 
as a two-year fixed rate account. I think this a reasonable conclusion based on the evidence. 
For example we have Mr Os phone call with Masthaven in which the call handler, looking at 
Masthavens system, told Mr O the fixed rate ran until 2023. I think it very unlikely indeed the 
call handler wouldve told Mr O his account ran until 2023 if this wasnt what was showing on 
the system  particularly given that Mr O queried it during the call. Also Masthaven has been 
consistent on this point throughout (which as it happens is also consistent with the fact that 
the interest rate showing for the account matches the historic two-year rate on its website).
Masthaven says Mr Os account is showing as a two-year account because this is what he 
selected and inputted when he set up his account. Ive considered this assertion carefully in 
the light of the evidence that has been provided.
I first note there is no evidence that the nature or term of Mr Os account was altered after it 
started. For example Mr O hasnt mentioned there having been any alteration to the interest 
rate shown on the account. Theres nothing whatsoever to suggest such an occurrence. So 
bearing in mind the absence of evidence to suggest anything else, I proceed on the basis 
that Mr Os account shows as a two-year account and was set up like that from the start.
Id add that Mr O wouldve probably spotted if the interest rate shown on his account when it 
started wasnt what he had selected. Also it is in the nature of a fixed-rate term account that 
the rate and term is fixed from the start  so theres no reason to suppose that once it started 
the basis of the account was somehow changed between then and Mr Os call to Masthaven 
a year later. So I now turn to events at the start and Ive considered how it is that the account 
came to be set up.
Mr O has told us he couldnt recall exactly how he opened the account and that he was struggling to recall the exact details. This isnt surprising given the passage of time and given 
also  as Mr O has pointed out  he wasnt expecting the problem that arose later, so he had 
no reason to try to commit to memory all the specifics of the events and process at the time. 
But his tentative recollections point to an application attempted online but then conducted 
instead by phone. 
In my view the evidence supports the view that Mr O applied for the account online. I reach 
this view bearing in mind his recollections and that Masthaven has said he applied online. I 
also bear in mind that the evidence I have, taking into account Mr Os recollections, doesnt 
support a view that his application was made by him in some other way whereas it does fit 
with the evidence Masthaven has provided relating to the online application process.
For example, Mr O has recalled phone calls, but he hasnt recalled his application having 
been taken in full over the phone. Also we have recordings of what appear to be those calls. 
These show that the calls covered certain limited and specific parts of Mr Os application but 
by no means enough to have been the means by which his application was made. The term 
was not mentioned, for instance, nor his trading name. Moreover it is apparent from what is 
said at the start of the calls that an application had already been received by Masthaven and 
the calls were made to query details of it. 
So the call recordings dont support a conclusion that Mr O applied giving the necessary 
details to Masthaven by phone. On the other hand, their content appears consistent with the 
process shown on Masthavens slides for online applications where details of an application 
are queried by phone after the application has been made online. So the calls arent in fact 
evidence to suggest Mr O didnt apply online but rather support the view that he did apply 
online. Also Mr O hasnt said he posted a written application or anything of that nature. It is 
with all this in mind that I proceed on the basis that Mr O made his application online.
It follows that Mr O entered the details of his application online and the term of the account 
selected at the outset was selected by him online. Masthavens slides illustrate how that was 
done in practice and that the term options didnt just include complete years but could be 
fixed to particular dates and so run for parts of a year as well as whole years. 
The term on Mr Os account reflects that flexibility, and it is this flexibility Masthaven says is 
why it referred to the account as a flexible term account. Theres no dispute that Mr O was 
choosing a fixed term - only over the length of the term - so regardless of the merits of this 
account description, it didnt mislead Mr O into thinking his account didnt have a fixed term.
According to the example given on the slides, I note that these were prepared before Mr Os 
application  and possibly before the process in general went live. So it is possible that what 
Mr O saw online differed in some details from what the slides show  the rate wouldve been 
different for example. On the other hand, I havent any good evidence to suggest that the 
process Mr O encountered online was substantially different to the process shown on the 
slides. Bearing in mind also the parallels between what we know happened and what is 
shown on the slides, what I have favours the view that the slides are illustrative of the 
general process in the way Masthaven suggests they are. 
That said, regardless of how in particular the term choice was presented, it is in the nature of 
an online application that the application details are entered by the applicant online. So in my 
view the fact Mr O made his application online, and the absence of anything to suggest that 
he specified the term in any other way than by an online selection, is very strong evidence 
indeed that Mr O selected the term of his account by selecting it online. So the natural and 
logical conclusion is that the reason Mr Os account has a two-year term is that he selected 
a two-year term online, and that would be so even in the absence of slides to illustrate the 
specifics of the online application process.Mr O wanted a one-year term but in my view that is not inconsistent with a view that he 
selected a two-year term online  as human error of that kind happens from time to time. It is 
plausible that it happened here and, for example, that Mr O fixed a date perhaps focussing 
on the rate or not spotting that the year selected meant a two rather than one-year term. 
Mr O suggests someone at Masthaven might instead have entered details or data into the 
system incorrectly and he points out no log-in history, screenshots or online application form 
has been provided to show that what he entered included a request for a two-year term. 
Ive thought about this carefully. In my view the fact Mr Os account is a two-year account is 
in itself evidence he selected a two-year account  as theres no evidence of a process 
where what Mr O entered online was then input by Masthaven onto its system separately. 
Masthaven put notes on its system as records of its phone calls but these are distinct from 
the details that had already been entered online. Also the making of those calls is in line with 
the process shown on the slides for clarifying application details after an online application  
it isnt evidence of a separate undocumented process where Masthaven altered or reinput 
selections already made online. The slides show no such reinputting process and such a 
process isnt necessary to explain how Mr O ended up with a two-year term, given what Ive 
said above about human error.
Id add that it would be strange if after getting a customer to enter details online, Masthaven 
then entered them again and so unnecessarily introduced extra cost and the chance of the 
sort of error Mr O alludes to. As such I find this a very unlikely scenario. The lack of good 
evidence to point to this scenario or give it weight just adds to that. When information is 
entered online it isnt usually typed in again by someone else  unlike what happens with a 
paper application, for example. The natural inference where an application is made online is 
that the result is determined by what is input online and not in some other way.
With this and all Ive said above in mind, Im not persuaded there is good reason to suppose 
there was a reinputting process at work here. It is in that context I find Masthavens assertion 
that there was no such reinputting process, persuasive. The alternative conclusion would be 
that there was and that Masthaven is hiding it, but theres no good evidence for that view. 
Also if that were Mr Os view, a further report from Masthaven wouldnt necessarily disprove 
it - regardless of what the report purported to show. For example, I dont know if data was 
captured or kept by Masthaven of a kind that would now show Mr Os keystrokes or choices 
made online when applying that populated Masthavens system in the way it was populated. 
But if it were possible for Masthaven to produce such a report, and Masthaven sent such a 
report, its not obvious to me that questions couldnt still be raised about whether the report 
accurately represented the data it claimed to and wasnt instead manipulated or in error.
In any event, putting that to one side, my view is that the account details on Masthavens 
system, including the term, are likely a digital record of the selections Mr O made during his 
online application. I acknowledge he favours also obtaining some other record, but Im not 
persuaded more records are necessary to arrive at a fair and reasonable view. In my view 
what we have already is enough to support a view that Mr O input his account term online.
Turning to the data extract Masthaven did send, Masthaven says this shows what it sent to 
its third party and says this was pulled directly from its system and so shows what was on its 
system at the time. I dont see any reason to suppose this extract doesnt reflect the details 
of Mr Os application as held on Masthavens system at the time  given that it also reflects 
the two-year account currently on the system and the absence of anything to suggest this 
was changed after it started. Of course the key issue is how those application details got 
onto the system at the start. Ive discussed above why I think the answer is that they most 
likely got there as a result of Mr O inputting them during his online application.The data extract purports to show information the third party put into a welcome pack it sent 
Mr O. In my view the evidence supports that Mr O was sent such a welcome pack. I say this 
not just because Masthaven has said this was its process, or because of the data extract, 
which Mr O has questioned as insufficient  and not just because of the copy of the welcome 
letter Masthaven has provided, or because of the screenshot Masthaven sent that it says 
shows the date of the pack  but also because the 7 May 2021 email Mr O was sent clearly 
says hed be sent a welcome pack by post. I find all this persuasive overall.
Ive considered what Mr O has said about his use of 1 year bond as the reference for the 
bank transfers he then made into his Masthaven account. But I dont think this amounted to 
a contractual term or formed the basis of his contract with Masthaven. It plainly didnt. Id 
observe also that the payment reference was for the reference of the payor and the payee  
which in each case was Mr O here - and not for the attention of Masthaven. I dont agree 
that Masthaven can be faulted for not monitoring, reviewing or seeking to interpret the 
payment references Mr O used when he made these payments between his accounts.
Mr O says he didnt receive a welcome pack and also hasnt seen the terms and conditions 
or key features information. I dont know whether that is right or not but if he was concerned 
that he hadnt received these details he couldve enquired about not having received the 
welcome pack, given that he was informed that this would be following in the post. If there 
was information Mr O didnt have that he was going to rely on when deciding whether to take 
the account, I expect he wouldve asked for this before investing rather than a year later. So 
Im not persuaded Mr Os decision to take the account was the result of any shortcoming  if 
there was a shortcoming  in how relevant account literature, such as terms and conditions, 
was made available to Mr O. Id add that Masthaven isnt responsible if, having had it sent to 
the right address, the welcome pack somehow went astray in the post and wasnt received.
Turning to Masthavens call note description of Mr Os funds as business savings, I note 
this wasnt specified in that second call. But Mr O applied for a business account and gave 
Masthaven details of his business. Business accounts were naturally offered on the basis 
they would be used for business purposes. Historic interest rates on Masthavens website 
suggest the rate for business accounts was higher than for personal accounts when Mr O 
applied. As a sole trader Mr Os business wasnt a separate legal person. He was to fund the 
Masthaven account from other savings or investments including a current account he wasnt 
earning any interest on. He told Masthaven he didnt operate a business bank account and 
as such all his taxable income was interlinked. With all this in mind, I dont see anything 
untoward about the note Masthaven made. In my view it was ultimately for Masthaven and at 
Masthavens discretion that it made the business account available to Mr O. I cant fault it for 
doing that, bearing in mind for example the extra interest this offered Mr O, and what Mr O 
has said provides no grounds for me to override the decision Masthaven took in that regard.
In conclusion, and in light of all Ive said above, I havent identified any grounds for upholding 
Mr Os complaint and so I dont uphold the complaint. Id emphasise that although I may not 
have detailed every single point and observation Mr O has made during the course of his 
complaint, I considered everything he has said and sent us before reaching my conclusion.
Im grateful to Mr O for all his detailed points and I thank him also for his prompt responses 
and courtesy throughout our consideration of his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given and in light of all Ive said above, I do not uphold Mr Os 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman