DRN-1150035
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1992. Mr and Mrs B says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold 
them the PPI. 
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs B, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold 
 Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B asked for PPI as part of their application for a further advance. The application 
form offered them the choice to take out PPI or turn it down. It said it was something 
Santander recommended  this was only a recommendation, not a requirement. And Mr and 
Mrs B had already had their mortgage without PPI for 20 years by that point, so they 
wouldve known they didnt have to have PPI with their secured borrowing.
The option to decline PPI was ticked but crossed out, and instead the option to take it was 
ticked. Mr and Mrs B say this means the choice wasnt genuine. But the application was 
filled by hand, and mistakes happen  I can see a number of errors were crossed out and 
corrected or overwritten, such as the mortgage type, Mrs Bs year of birth, certain financial 
details, and most of the section for buildings and contents insurance. So I think its most 
likely that Mr and Mrs Bs choice to take out PPI was genuine, much like those other 
corrections. And ultimately, they signed the application to confirm what was on it.
Ive not seen any wider problems with Santanders sales process from the time, nor any 
evidence which shows that it misled Mr and Mrs B. It looks like in order to get the policy, 
Mr and Mrs B wouldve then filled out a separate application specifically for PPI. And I can 
see they were sent a letter confirming their choice to buy the policy. Mr and Mrs B said they 
dont have the letter, but its not surprising they havent still got it given it was sent nearly 
three decades ago. It was sent to the right address, so its most likely they got it at the time. 
And considering all the other evidence I have, I think its most likely that Santander made it 
clear Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out PPI and that they chose to take it at the time  
though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so it had to check that the policy was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, it covered Mr B, and it looks like he was eligible for the cover and wasnt 
affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.While Mr B had benefits through work, the PPI paid out on top of those and covered him for 
far longer  for instance, it covered long-term sickness for up to 36 months in any one claim. 
He only had limited savings, and didnt have alternative cover elsewhere. I understand 
Mr and Mrs Bs family may have been happy to help out, but there was always the chance 
theyd be unable to help when needed. And this mortgage was Mr and Mrs Bs responsibility, 
not anyone elses, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable for Santander to have 
recommended they rely on other people to pay it. Its worth bearing in mind that if Mr and 
Mrs B had fallen behind on their repayments, they couldve lost their home. It looks like the 
PPI couldve really been useful for them in protecting their home and providing some peace 
of mind.
Mr and Mrs B have said the policy shouldve been joint. But that was their choice  they 
were free to cover one of them, or the other, or both. It may be that at the time they felt 
Mrs B didnt need the cover as much as Mr B. From what theyve told us, it doesnt seem like 
Mrs B ever needed to claim, which would mean she hasnt lost out by not being on the 
policy. And that would mean this point isnt relevant. But if Mr and Mrs B really intended for 
Mrs B to be covered, and there was a situation where she needed to claim but didnt, then 
they may be able to make a back-dated claim to Santander. And if they have any issues with 
the back-dated claim, they may be able to make a separate complaint about that.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs B chose to take out the policy, which 
indicates they wanted this type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like Mr B was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have really been useful 
for Mr and Mrs B in case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given 
how much it would pay out in a claim. And it was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and 
Mrs B could keep it for as long as the mortgage lasted, or cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. So overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put them 
off taking it out. 
This means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Santander has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B 
because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because Santander didnt 
tell them, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
What the business should do
Santander has offered to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. That means Santander will pay back to Mr and 
Mrs B the extra they paid each month because the commission and profit share it got was 
more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander will also pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple interest 
on each payment.*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Santander UK Plc has offered to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman