DRN-4226679
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint is about a claim they made on their DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited (DAS) legal expenses insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs S say that DAS have treated them unfairly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim on their DAS legal expenses insurance policy for cover to 
defend a claim made by their neighbour. 
They appointed their own choice of Solicitors to act for them. Those Solicitors sought funding 
from DAS for their costs in defending the claim. 
The parties are aware of the detailed history surrounding the claim and the facts of that 
history are not in dispute, so I wont repeat them in detail here. In summary, Mr and Mrs S 
own Solicitors costs couldnt be agreed for some time by DAS. Eventually the trial of the 
claim took place in July 2018 at which Mr and Mrs S were successful. A costs order was 
made in their favour. Following that the neighbour offered to settle the order for costs. Mr 
and Mrs S Solicitors asked DAS whether to accept the offer made on the basis it was a 
reasonable offer. DAS endorsed this.
Mr and Mrs S say their costs amounted to £135,000 and the offer made against this was for 
£80,000. They say they accepted the offer on the basis that they thought DAS would pick up 
the shortfall under their policy, but DAS have since refused this. Theyre also concerned that 
even if DAS did agree to pick up the shortfall, their indemnity limit isnt as much as they were 
led to believe. They rely on a representation made by DAS in July 2017 in which their 
Solicitors were told the limit amounted to £250,000 in error. This was later corrected by DAS 
who confirmed the correct limit of indemnity was £50,000. Mr and Mrs S say that they still 
need the benefit of cover because theyre still dealing with a claim that has arisen out of the 
previous one made against them and so still falls into the same original limit of indemnity.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs S complaint and concluded it should be upheld. He 
said that DAS should pick up the shortfall of the costs Mr and Mrs S have been left with, up 
to the indemnity limit of £50,000, provided those costs are reasonable. In doing so, he said 
that DAS were entitled to assess the remaining costs and pay those that are reasonable, in 
line with the hourly rates they agreed with Mr and Mrs Ss Solicitors. In addition, he said DAS 
should pay interest of 8% per year simple on any amounts Mr and Mrs S have already paid 
to their Solicitors that are yet to be recovered from DAS from the date they were paid, until 
DAS reimburses them for this. Finally, the investigator said that any remaining indemnity 
available under the policy should be retained by DAS to allow Mr and Mrs S to pursue the 
related claim theyve referred to, subject to the remaining policy terms.
Neither DAS or Mr and Mrs S agree with the investigators view. DAS say that the purpose of 
the policy is to pay reasonable and necessary costs and the costs that remain unrecovered 
are not reasonable and necessary- because Mr and Mrs S accepted a reasonable offer on 
them. They feel that if the investigators view stands, this would lead to betterment under the 
policy because the insurance doesnt cover this kind of situation. They also say theyve 
discharged their duty to Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy because they dont think the investigators findings go far 
enough. They want DAS to push the indemnity limit up to £100,000 because of their original 
reference to the indemnity limit being £250,000. This would mean that DAS pick up the 
shortfall of their costs and that they have enough available to them to pursue the other claim 
under the terms of the policy. They also say DAS shouldnt be entitled to assess the 
remainder of their costs as they will only reduce them and this would mean Mr and Mrs S will 
be left with a liability to pick up themselves, which is unfair. They feel the costs theyve 
incurred have already been assessed by the Court, so this means they are reasonable.
Because of this the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that Mr and Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld in the same way 
set out by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive provided a summary of the facts of this complaint as well as both parties submissions. 
No disrespect is intended to either party in this regard. It simply represents the informal 
nature of this Service. I can however assure them both that Ive considered everything 
theyve said when reaching my conclusions.
Where a party has recovered costs in a successful claim against another party, we have an 
established approach about any shortfalls in costs that then fall to the policyholders to pick 
up where legal expenses insurance cover is in place. I appreciate DAS dont agree with that 
approach but that doesnt change where we stand.
Like most legal expenses insurance policies, Mr and Mrs Ss policy says there is only cover 
for a non panel Solicitors fees from the point where its necessary to issue court 
proceedings. Mr and Mrs S opted to use a Solicitor of their own choice and sought cover for 
this from the point of issuing proceedings.
Whilst there was disagreement over the terms of appointment, that matter has now been 
resolved and DAS agreed to pay Mr and Mrs Ds costs at agreed hourly rates.  There was 
also disagreement about the indemnity limit applicable to the policy given an earlier 
representation by DAS that this amounted to £250,000. Its not in dispute that the correct 
limit applicable to the policy is £50,000. I dont intend to address any submissions about 
whether that should be altered in this complaint because the issue concerning the indemnity 
limit was the subject of another complaint to this Service that Mr and Mrs S agreed to settle. 
Part of that settlement included accepting the correct indemnity limit applicable to the claim. 
So based on the fact that the indemnity limit is £50,000 and that matter has already been 
agreed separately, DAS are only responsible for paying Mr and Mrs Ss reasonable costs at 
the agreed rates up to that amount.
DAS say that theyre not obliged to pay anything in respect of Mr and Mrs Ss costs because 
£80,000 of these were recovered from their neighbour. But I dont think thats the right way to 
approach this. The policy covers Mr and Mrs S for: 
all reasonable and necessary costs chargeable by the representative on a standard basis, or in accordance with the Predictable Costs scheme, if this is appropriate. 
The policy terms also say: 
If an insured person does not accept a reasonable offer to settle a claim we may refuse to 
pay further costs and expenses.
Mr and Mrs S must take every step to recover costs and expenses that we have to pay, and 
must pay us any costs and expenses that are recovered 
Looking at the policy terms and based on the terms of appointment agreed with their 
Solicitors, Mr and Mrs S have cover for costs up to £50,000 at the hourly rates agreed with 
DAS. So, theyre entitled to claim costs up to that limit. But they were obliged to accept a 
reasonable offer to settle their claim- which I interpret as applying to costs orders as well as 
the main claim, as DAS has - otherwise DAS could refuse to pay any further costs or 
expenses. The policy also required them to recover costs DAS were responsible for and pay 
these to DAS. Thats not unusual. The purpose of this type of policy is to cover Mr and Mrs S 
for any costs they dont recover from the other side. So, any costs recovered will be 
deducted from their indemnity limit and they can claim the balance. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs S recovered £80,000 but that wasnt enough to cover all their costs; 
theres a shortfall of £55,000. The same principle applies here  theyre entitled to claim 
those costs. It wouldnt be fair if theyre paid nothing because they reduced DAS liability by 
recovering costs from the other side  particularly where the settlement was agreed with 
DAS approval. 
That doesnt necessarily mean DAS have to pay the £55,000 in full. Theyre entitled to 
assess the costs to see whats reasonable and pay them in line with the rates agreed with 
Mr and Mrs Ss Solicitor. I dont think this amounts to betterment under the policy as DAS 
contends. The alternative, in my view leaves Mr and Mrs S with no benefit from their 
insurance policy at all. A policyholder would generally expect that, subject to anything 
recovered from the other side, the policy will cover their costs  that is the point of having the 
cover and not just to cover the risk of picking up costs if the other party doesnt pay them. 
So, I think its fair and reasonable for DAS to pay Mr and Mrs Ss costs up to the policy limit 
after deducting the £80,000 paid by the neighbour.
Ive also thought about what Mr and Mrs S have said about these costs particularly on the 
question of assessment. In particular, they say their costs were assessed by the Court and 
so this assessment should be sufficient. I havent seen anything that confirms that a detailed 
assessment of costs was undertaken by the Court. From what Ive seen it looks as though a 
bill was prepared by Mr and Mrs Ss Solicitor, but this isnt the same as a detailed 
assessment of costs. And neither is a summary of intended costs that was presented to the 
Court earlier on in the proceedings, which seems to be what Mr S is referring to. 
Although I appreciate Mr and Mrs S have accepted a lower sum in settlement of their costs, 
this doesnt mean the amount they were claiming would have been accepted by the Court as 
reasonable. So, in the same way the Court might have assessed costs, DAS is now entitled 
to assess them on a standard basis and in line with the rates they agreed with their 
Solicitors. I appreciate this might mean Mr and Mrs S are left with some shortfall to fund 
themselves, but thats the risk they took when instructing their own Solicitors to act for them. 
The policy only covers reasonable and necessary costs charged on a standard basis. I cant 
expect DAS to pay anything beyond that. If Mr and Mrs S disagree with DASs assessment 
of their costs, they are entitled to obtain their own evidence in the form of a cost draftsmans 
report to help resolve things. If they do this, I would expect DAS to consider that report and if 
matters cant be agreed, the issue can be determined by way of an application to Court if necessary.
As Ive set out above, I dont intend to deal with the mistake DAS made in relation to the 
level of indemnity they confirmed was applicable to the policy because this was the subject 
of an earlier complaint which has now settled. Equally I wont be dealing with delays or the 
difficulties Mr and Mrs S in getting DAS to agree to fund their costs in principle for the same 
reasons. 
Mr and Mrs S have however made a new assertion that a limit of £100,000 should be 
applicable to the policy so that it covers the shortfall of their costs and the additional claim 
that stems from the same cause of action. Although DAS initially made a mistake about the 
limit of indemnity, I wont in this case be looking behind the correct limit of £50,000 because 
that is whats applicable to this policy. 
Putting things right
To put things right DAS:
should consider Mr and Mrs Ss total costs and pay those reasonably and necessarily 
incurred on a standard basis up to the limit of indemnity at the rates agreed with their 
Solicitors. 
is entitled to set off the £80,000 paid by Mr and Mrs Ss neighbour against the total costs 
assessed as reasonable and necessary on a standard basis.
can have Mr and Mrs Ss total costs assessed to determine what is reasonable and 
necessary on a standard basis. If Mr and Mrs S dont agree they will be entitled to obtain 
their own assessment from a cost draftsmen. I would expect DAS to consider this 
assessment. If the matter still cant be agreed, then it can be determined by way of an 
application to Court.
should pay Mr and Mrs S interest at 8% per year simple on any costs they pay them from 
the time they were paid by Mr and Mrs S until theyre discharged.
Retain any remaining amount of indemnity for the other claim Mr and Mrs S wants to 
bring, subject to the remaining policy terms.  My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited and direct them put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman