DRN-1462168
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Metro Bank plc hasnt investigated his chargeback properly. And 
hes complained that they re-opened his credit card solely to recover money from him. 
What happened
In January 2019, Mr W received an email from a car rental company saying theyd taken 
£136 from his credit card. They said this was to cover a parking fine incurred when Mr W 
had been renting the car and their admin fee for dealing with the parking fine. 
Mr W complained to the car rental company and asked for a refund. He said they shouldnt 
have paid the parking fine on his behalf. He said the parking company sent the invoice to the 
car rental company too late, referencing the Protection of Freedoms Act 2012, and he said 
they should have given his details to the parking company instead of paying it themselves. 
The car rental company refused to refund Mr W and so he contacted Metro Bank to ask 
them to reimburse him. Mr W said it was an unauthorised transaction on his credit card and 
a breach of contract by the car rental company.
Metro Bank applied a chargeback to Mr Ws card in March 2019, reimbursing the funds to 
Mr W while they looked into his dispute. In May 2019, Metro Bank asked Mr W for more 
evidence about his dispute with the car rental company. In that letter, they said they would 
re-debit the temporary refund within 7 days if they did not hear back from Mr W. Later that 
month, Mr W went into a branch of Metro Bank and asked them to cancel his credit card. But 
in June 2019, Mr W received a new card in the post. He looked online and saw that Metro 
Bank had reinstated the £136 charge on his account, so he called Metro Bank to complain.
Metro Bank said they had raised Mr Ws case with the car rental company and the car rental 
company had provided details showing the transaction to be valid, which is why they had 
cancelled the refund. They suggested that Mr W needed to go back to the car rental 
company to resolve the issue. 
Metro Bank have told us that Mr Ws request to close his account wasnt actioned 
immediately so it was still open when they reinstated the £136 charge. They also said that if 
they had closed the account their normal process would be to re-activate if necessary to 
collect money owed to them.  
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator looked into it. Our investigators view 
was that Metro Bank had done enough to investigate the transaction and satisfy themselves 
that it was authorised. Our investigator thought that Metro Bank had made an error in not 
closing Mr Ws account correctly when he asked for it to be closed. But our investigator 
thought this wouldnt have made any difference to the outcome as Metro Bank would have 
looked to recover the £136 from Mr W another way if the account was closed.
Mr W wasnt happy with our investigators view. He said the car rental company had not 
adhered to their own terms and conditions when charging his card and thats why he felt 
Metro Bank had been negligent. He also said he thought Metro Bank hadnt been transparent about the closure of his credit card account. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review his case and so the matter has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see there are two aspects to Mr Ws complaint  Metro Banks investigation of the 
chargeback and their handling of Mr Ws credit card account. Im not upholding either aspect 
 Ill explain why.
Metro Banks investigation of the chargeback
To make my decision, I must consider whether Metro Banks treatment of Mr Ws 
chargeback claim was fair and reasonable. In doing so, Ive taken into account the rules set 
by Mastercard which govern the chargeback process. 
When Mr W initially asked Metro Bank to raise the chargeback, he said it was because the 
transaction had taken place without his authorisation. I can see he attached his 
correspondence with the car rental company, in which he more fully explained the situation. 
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Metro Bank to pursue the chargeback as an 
unauthorised transaction based on his email.
I can see that the car rental company contacted Metro Bank to deny that the transaction was 
unauthorised. They said the customer had caused a traffic offence during the rental period. 
They attached a copy of the parking fine notice and a copy of the signed contract as 
evidence. The signed contract states I authorise [car rental company] to debit my credit or 
debit card for any charges in connection with this rental as outlined in the terms and 
conditions. 
On 16 May 2019, Metro Bank wrote to Mr W to ask for his evidence to counter this. And they 
said they would need a copy of his passport or driving licence to counter the car rental 
companys evidence. I can see they also warned Mr W that the temporary refund placed on 
his account would be re-debited within the next 7 days if they didnt hear from him. 
I can see that Mr W replied by email to the banks letter on 26 May 2019. In his reply, he 
didnt provide a copy of either his passport or driving licence. He said he disputed the 
transaction because the car rental company had paid an invoice based on an unproven 
claim of a parking offence contrary to their own terms and conditions. 
At this stage, Metro Bank had to decide whether or not to pursue the chargeback by taking it 
to arbitration. Any bank taking a chargeback to arbitration takes on the risk of incurring 
significant fees if they lose. So, I think its reasonable to expect that Metro Bank would only 
take Mr Ws case to arbitration if they thought they had a reasonable chance of winning. 
I cant see that Mr W replied within the 7-day period set out in Metro Banks letter of 
16 May 2019  or that he provided the specific evidence they requested. When Mr W did 
reply, 10 days after the banks letter, Im satisfied that it would have been clear to Metro 
Bank that the case was more complex than they had originally thought, as it related to a 
legal dispute over the car rental companys terms and conditions.
I can understand Metro Bank might have thought they had a low prospect of being 
successful if they pursued the claim. Having looked at the legislation Mr W has referenced, I 
dont consider it supports his case that the payment should be treated as unauthorised.Mr Ws position is based on his interpretation of the Protection of Freedoms Act 2012. He 
considers this provides a foundation for his claim that the card payment is unauthorised, 
because the car rental company didnt have to pay the parking charge. I have to say I dont 
agree with Mr Ws interpretation. The clause he refers to effectively gives up to 56 days from 
the driver notification (which is the date of the alleged parking offence) to the date on which 
notice should be served on the registered keeper. The car rental company received the 
parking charge notice well within that timescale.
So even if Metro Bank had taken the chargeback claim further, Im not persuaded it would 
have meant Mr W recovering the money.
Taking all these things into consideration, Im satisfied Metro Bank didnt treat Mr W unfairly 
when they decided not to take the matter further and instead re-debited Mr Ws account.
Metro Banks handling of Mr Ws credit card account
I can see Mr W is unhappy that Metro Bank didnt close his account when he asked them to, 
then used the fact that it was still open to recover the £136 before closing the account 
without warning. Hes complained that Metro Bank had not mentioned any failure to close his 
account and that their behaviour was unethical. 
Metro Bank wrote to Mr W on 16 May 2019 and said they would reverse the temporary credit 
amount if he didnt provide the evidence requested within 7 days. So Mr W was warned that 
they would look to recover the £136. And he went into the branch to request closure of the 
account on 26 May 2019, the same day he replied to Metro Banks letter without providing 
the evidence theyd requested. This could suggest that Mr W was aware Metro Bank would 
probably try to reverse the chargeback.
I can appreciate Mr Ws view that Metro Bank werent particularly transparent in the way they 
handled the collection of the £136 from him and the closure of his credit card. It might have 
helped it they had written to him to explain the situation. But I dont think Mr Ws lost out as a 
result - Metro Banks terms and conditions state: When our agreement with you ends, or we 
close an account or stop providing a service or facility covered by it, you must: repay any 
money you owe us; and  Im satisfied Mr W would have had to repay the £136 to Metro 
Bank even if theyd handled his credit card differently.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Clare King
Ombudsman