DRN-1083161
The complaint
Ms N complains that Barclays Bank Plc recorded her voice without consent in order to 
register her for its Voice Security system. Ms N also complains that Barclays didnt respond 
to her complaint. 
What happened
On 25 May 2019 Ms N received a text message from Barclays that said it was setting her up 
for Voice Security as part of a fraud prevention process. Ms N says that she had previously 
told Barclays she didnt want to be registered for its voice recognition system. 
Ms N called Barclays and complained. Ms N explained that she was concerned Barclays 
was guilty of identity theft and the risk of fraud. 
On 26 May 2019 Barclays contacted Ms N and she was told that all customers had been 
signed up to the voice recognition system. Ms N says that she had previously been told by 
someone else at Barclays that customers had to be actively signed up to the new service.
Ms N has told us that she didnt receive Barclays' final response. Barclays has sent us a 
copy of its final response dated 28 May 2019. Barclays' final response explained all 
customers had been opted into the service and had the option to opt out again. Barclays 
didnt uphold Ms Ns complaint. 
Ms N asked our service to look at her complaint and told us she hadnt received the final 
response. Barclays sent a copy of the final response and later agreed to pay Ms N £75 for 
providing confusing information. Our investigator thought Barclays offer was fair but Ms N 
asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator said that Barclays didnt record Ms Ns voice as part of its Voice Security 
system. Id like to clarify how the Voice Security system operates and whether Barclays 
recorded Ms Ns calls. Barclays website provides information about Voice Security. It says 
that during normal conversations over telephone banking a unique voice print is obtained. 
Barclays says it offers the service when it has sufficient recorded audio. It also says 
customers can opt out at any time. The information from Barclays shows it records 
customers voices during calls to Telephone Banking and uses that data to enrol them on the 
Voice Security service. 
Barclays, like most banks, routinely records its phone calls with customers. I know Ms N has 
concerns that Barclays has breached GDPR by signing her up to Voice Security without 
checking with her first. But Barclays has explained that it has considered its obligations 
under GDPR and is entitled to use recordings for security purposes without gaining specific consent. Ive looked at the rules and there are provisions under GDPR that mean 
businesses dont always need consent to process information. 
As a service, we decide complaints based on whats fair and reasonable. That means, for 
me to uphold Ms Ns complaint Id have to be satisfied that shes suffered a financial loss or 
been caused an unreasonable amount of distress and inconvenience. So even if I had found 
Barclays had breached GDPR Id still have to find that it had led to a loss for Ms N or caused 
her an unreasonable amount of trouble and upset. 
In this case, Ms N was sent a text message on 25 May 2019 and called Barclays on the 
same day. Ms N opted out of the Voice Security service on 25 May 2019 when she called. 
No financial loss to Ms N has been caused by being enrolled then opted out of the Voice 
Security service. And she was able to opt out when she called. I havent found that Ms N 
was unreasonably inconvenienced by what happened. 
Barclays has explained that because Ms N opted out any call recordings that had been 
retained for use in the Voice Security process were deleted.  
Ms N says she had already told Barclays she didnt want to use the voice recognition 
system. Barclays has provided its contact records but theres nothing in them that says Ms N 
had previously said she didnt want to be enrolled in the Voice Security service. 
Ms N has told us she didnt receive Barclays final response dated 28 May 2019. Barclays 
has sent us a copy of the letter it sent. The final response is correctly addressed, in line with 
the details we hold for Ms N. I can also see that Barclays complaint handling systems record 
the final response as being dispatched on 28 May 2019. Whilst I understand Ms N didnt 
receive it, Im satisfied Barclays responded to her complaint on 28 May 2019 as it claims.  
Barclays has offered £75 because it gave Ms N some confusing information about how the 
Voice Security system works when she called on 25 May 2019. I agree that the way the 
service works could have been explained more clearly and Im pleased Barclays has made 
an offer to compensate Ms N. Im satisfied the £75 its offered to pay fairly reflects the impact 
of the confusing information on Ms N, so Im not telling Barclays to increase its offer. 
I'm sorry to disappoint Ms N but as I'm satisfied Barclays' offer of £75 is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances, I'm not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank Plc to pay Ms N £75. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman