DRN-3883045
The complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about a lifetime mortgage she took out on the recommendation of 
Age Partnership Limited (AP).  She has said that equity release, and the particular mortgage 
in question, was not appropriate for her. This was because AP knew that Mrs B was unlikely 
to keep the mortgage for life and she was intending on making regular payments toward the 
accruing interest. In addition, shes said AP failed to explain the features of the mortgage in 
a manner appropriate to her level of financial experience. 
Mrs B is represented in her complaint, but for ease I will refer to all comments as hers.
What happened
In the spring of 2018 Mrs B approached AP for advice as she wanted to repay her mortgage, 
credit card debt and do some home improvements. She wanted to borrow £79,000 and AP 
recommended she take out a lifetime mortgage with lender L. She declined the 
recommendation because, shes told us, she wasnt happy at that time to have a mortgage 
with an undefined early repayment charge (ERC) that could be up to 25% of the amount 
borrowed. Instead, Mrs B decided to use some of her existing investments to provide for her 
needs. 
Mrs B approached a lifetime mortgage provider in the summer of 2018. It explained that it 
did not provide advice and passed her details to AP. She wanted to release some money 
from her home to give to a relative. AP updated the fact find it had completed the previous 
year. Mrs B confirmed that she wanted to help a relative purchase a larger property and 
needed £120,000 for this purpose. She had investments that could be used for this purpose 
but didnt want to use them, as she thought the returns on them would be higher than the 
costs of a lifetime mortgage. While Mrs B said that she might move in the future, there were 
no plans at that time for when that might happen, and she felt that a lifetime mortgage would 
be a suitable option for her to release the money she needed.
Mrs B wanted the option to make payments to the mortgage, but didnt want to be required 
to do so, and wanted a fixed rate of interest to ensure the least impact on her estate. It was 
documented that alternatives to equity release had been considered, but they would either 
not provide the money wanted (such as taking in a lodger) or Mrs B didnt want to take up 
the option, such as downsizing, using her investments or taking out a standard mortgage or 
loan.
AP looked into a mortgage that had a defined ERC and would allow partial payments, in light 
of the fact that Mrs B had said she might consider downsizing at some point in the future. 
However, the location of Mrs Bs property meant that it was unable to source a mortgage for 
her with those features. AP again recommended a mortgage with Lender L, which had the 
same ERC arrangement as that suggested in 2018. The reason for this was because it 
allowed payments to be made, as Mrs B wanted, and it had the lowest interest rate of the 
available options. Therefore, the recommended mortgage would have the least impact on 
Mrs Bs estate. The mortgage was also portable in the event Mrs B did decide to move and 
partial repayments could be made without an ERC being payable. How the mortgage could 
affect the equity Mrs B was set out, as was what would happen if she wanted to repay the 
mortgage early. An explanation of how the ERC would be calculated and examples of how 
much it could be were given. These examples showed that the ERC could be more than 
£31,000.
Mrs B accepted the recommendation. The application was accepted by the lender after a 
valuation had been done, and the amount of the borrowing adjusted slightly to reflect the 
value of the property. The mortgage offer again documented how much would be owed at 
various different points and gave details of the ERC, including monetary examples of what it 
could be in different situations. It was again detailed that the ERC could be up to 25% of the 
amount of the mortgage advance  more than £31,000.
Mrs B accepted the mortgage offer after receiving the required legal advice. The mortgage 
was advanced in October 2018 for just under £124,000 with an interest rate of 4.55%. 
In June 2019 Mrs B contacted Lender L to enquire about porting the mortgage. The lender 
recorded that she was planning on porting the mortgage to a new property and reducing the 
amount of borrowing.  The following month Mrs B confirmed that she had found a new-build 
property and a survey was organised by Lender L to see if it would agree to the mortgage 
being ported. However, before the survey was done, Mrs B pulled out of the purchase 
because her buyer had dropped out. It was confirmed to the lender at this point Mrs B had 
decided to repay the lifetime mortgage. 
Mrs B repaid her mortgage in December 2019 and had to pay an ERC of just under £31,000. 
She complained to AP in March 2022 about the advice she had received.
AP responded to Mrs Bs complaint in its letter of 3 May 2022. It explained that as Mrs Bs 
property was in a flood zone, she was limited as to the mortgages that were available to her. 
It set out the discussions that had taken place and the reasoning for the recommendation. In 
addition, AP was satisfied that the ERC had been adequately explained to Mrs B and she 
had been made aware that it could amount to more than £31,000. AP didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with APs response and referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He was satisfied that Mrs B understood the explanations about the mortgage she 
was given and had reviewed all of the documentation that had been sent to her. He didnt 
think AP could have anticipated the actions Mrs B took in 2019 and the consequences of 
those actions. 
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators conclusions and maintained that she had not been 
treated fairly by AP. She said that the recommendation call was not representative of the 
earlier conversations she had with the adviser and those calls made it clear that shed 
initially had misconceptions about lifetime mortgages. In addition, she considered AP should 
have known from the discussions about the possibility of her downsizing that equity release 
was not appropriate for her. Mrs B also said that AP made no real effort to advise on or 
explore the possibility of utilising her existing investments to fulfil her needs, or to raise the 
funds in some other way. She asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mrs B has said the mortgage was not the right thing for her for three reasons; the first being 
that she was never likely to keep it. The second reason was that that she didnt need the 
mortgage and could have funded her requirements from her investments. Finally, Mrs B said 
that she didnt understand the mortgage and the ERC that was payable. I will consider each 
issue in turn.
Mrs B decided to move slightly over a year after the mortgage was advanced and, if she had 
told AP that was her plan, the advice it gave her may have been different. However, I am 
satisfied that she didnt make AP aware of that intention; indeed, I am not persuaded that 
was her intention at the time of the advice. When this subject came up, Mrs B did say that 
she might downsize at some point after her youngest child left home, but there were no 
definitive timescales associated with this. In the last conversation about the subject she 
repeated that she might downsize once she was the only person living in the property and 
said she  probably wont stay here forever. I dont consider this would have given AP any 
reason to believe Mrs B was planning to move at any time in the near future. If her plans 
changed after the advice was given, AP cant be held responsible for the consequences of 
that.
I would also comment that it is not inappropriate for a lifetime mortgage to be sold to a 
customer who may move at some point in the future. That is why, subject to any new 
property being acceptable to the lender, it is possible to port a lifetime mortgage. The ability 
to port was explained to Mrs B at the time of the recommendation and I note from the 
information shes provided from Lender L, that this is what she initially intended to do in 
2019, which would indicate an understanding of the mortgage. 
Mrs B made AP aware when she first spoke to it that she had a considerable amount of 
money invested  more than three times the amount she eventually borrowed. However, she 
also made it clear that she didnt want to use the investments to fund the plans she had. It 
appears that at that time the returns on the investments were greater than the rate of interest 
that would be charged on the mortgage, and so Mrs B didnt want to encash them. She 
confirmed that was the case when the recommendation was made and suggested if the 
returns were sufficient, she would use them toward the 10% payment allowance she had on 
the mortgage. 
AP raised the issue of Mrs B using the existing investments, but Mrs B confirmed she didnt 
want to. Given it was clear that she had thought about the issue, I am satisfied, in the 
circumstances, it was not unreasonable for AP to accept she understood the potential 
consequences of choosing to borrow instead. Just because a consumer can do something, it 
doesnt mean that it is an advisers role to attempt to make them do so when they have good 
reason not to. As for other options for raising the money required being considered, it seems 
they were considered and discounted. 
Mrs B has put forward that the questions she asked during the early stages of the sales 
process demonstrated that she didnt understand what a lifetime mortgage was and how it 
worked. I would explain that the earlier stages of the advice process are when I would 
expect a consumer to ask such questions to gain knowledge about the possible options 
available to them and clarify anything they didnt understand from discussions that were 
being had. The important thing is that the customer understands the product by the time they 
apply for it. 
I would also comment that it is not unusual for a consumer not to be able to obtain a financial 
product that gives them everything they would ideally want. There is nothing wrong with an 
adviser explaining to a consumer what is possible. If the consumer is willing to compromise 
on their list of requirements, there is nothing wrong with a recommendation being made 
which fulfils those adjusted requirements.I have carefully listened to the discussion of the mortgage between Mrs B and AP. She 
confirmed during that conversation that she had already read through the entire 
recommendation document. There was a detailed discussion about the payments that could 
be made to the mortgage, the ERC and the adviser took her through the potential costs 
involved and how the mortgage worked. Other than Mrs B mistakenly saying that interest 
could be paid monthly, rather than the four times a year as was explained to her, it does 
appear Mrs B understood the mortgage being recommended. While Mrs B has said that how 
the ERC was calculated would not be something any layperson could understand, she was 
clearly aware that the amount was not fixed. Examples of what the ERC could be were 
clearly documented, as was the fact that it could be up to 25% of the amount originally 
borrowed, and the adviser talked Mrs B through this information. 
While I know that Mrs B wont agree with me, I am not persuaded the lifetime mortgage was 
inappropriate for her, based on the situation and Mrs Bs plans at the time of the advice. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 
14 July 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman