DRN-3770597
The complaint
Miss K says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) irresponsibly lent 
to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card provided by Barclaycard to Miss K. 
The account opened in 2011. Barclaycard has suggested the opening of the account and 
any credit limit increases up to June 2015 cannot be looked at by us as they are out of our 
jurisdiction. This was looked at by our investigator, who found that we could not consider 
those complaints. Both parties to the complaint agreed to that finding, as do I. 
So the unaffordable lending complaint that could be looked at was the three credit increases 
that happened in July 2015 when the credit limit rose from £5,000 to £6,500, March 2016 
when the credit limit rose from £6,500 to £8,500 and August 2018 when the credit limit rose 
from £8,500 to £9,500. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Ks complaint. She thought that Barclaycard ought not to have 
offered the credit limit increases it did, starting from the credit limit increase in July 2015. 
Barclaycard agreed and offered to repay the standard redress. Miss K accepted the 
redress as described in our investigators assessment and the case closed. So, in the 
absence of any argument about the merits of the complaint, I propose to say nothing more 
about them in this decision. 
The case reopened when Miss K was disappointed to find that the redress only applied to a 
return of interest and charges for times the credit card balance was over £5,000, which 
hadnt been specified in the investigators assessment. Miss K believes that the redress 
ought to be the return of all interest and charges.
So, the case has passed to me to see what the correct redress should be, or whether Miss 
K should receive money in excess of the redress that has already been calculated and 
applied to her account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
When our investigator explained that we couldnt consider the lending decisions that had 
taken place before 2015, that was correct. And it meant that when we came to look at 
potential unaffordable lending decisions that happened from July 2015 onwards, we had 
no reason to say those earlier lending decisions were unreasonable. And so, when our 
investigator upheld Miss Ks complaint about unaffordable lending, she was doing so only 
for the credit limit increases in July 2015, Mar 2016 and August 2018. 
The investigators suggested redress in her assessment wasnt as clear as it could have 
been. Barclaycard raised that with her before calculating redress. Since then, our 
investigator clarified what the redress should have been with Miss K before the case came to 
me to decide, that is that interest and charges for balances over £5,000 should be returned 
to Miss K. The full redress is below and is our standard redress for a case like this. 
Putting things right
The purpose of redress is to put the consumer back in the position they would have been in 
had the unreasonable lending (in this case) not happened. And thats why the redress 
award is for borrowing over the credit limit of £5,000. Because the assessment sets out why 
the credit limit increase to £6,500 and above was unreasonable.
As I dont think Barclaycard should have increased Miss Ks credit limit to £6,500 in July 
2015 from the previous credit limit of £5,000, I dont think its fair for it to apply any interest or 
charges on any balances which exceeded the existing credit limit of £5,000. However, Miss 
K has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the account, so I think she should pay 
this back. Therefore, Barclaycard should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £5,000. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss K along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Barclaycard should also remove all adverse information recorded 
after 7 July 2015 regarding this account from Miss Ks credit file. 
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds the amount of redress so 
calculated, Barclaycard should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss K for 
the remaining amount. Once Miss K has cleared the outstanding balance, any 
adverse information recorded after 7 July 2015 in relation to the account should be 
removed from her credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for 
one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
I think that this is the correct redress for this case. So, I think that Barclaycard should put 
things right as detailed above. If it has already done this, then Barclaycard would have no 
further redress to make to Miss K. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im upholding Miss Ks complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading 
as Barclaycard should put things right in the way set out above.I make no further award against Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman