DRN-3597111
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Great lakes Insurance SE unreasonably refused to pay his claim 
under his pet policy because it was a pre-existing condition which is excluded. 
What happened
Mr B bought his policy with Great Lakes in March 2020 having been previously insured 
elsewhere. 
In October 2020 his dog was diagnosed with a complete tear of the left hind leg cruciate 
ligament plus a tear of the medial meniscus ligament. So, he asked Great Lakes for pre-
authorisation of the operation needed for his dog to repair this. Great Lakes looked at his 
dogs vet history and decided his dog had been suffering left hind issues since 2017 and 
there wasnt two clear years with no treatment for this leg prior to his policy starting in March 
2020. On that basis the condition was deemed pre-existing and was excluded from cover at 
this time. 
Mr Bs dog had the operation to repair the cruciate and medial meniscus ligaments in 
January 2021. Mr B then raised a complaint with Great Lakes in June 2021 with Great Lakes 
issuing the final response letter in August 2021 refusing to consider his claim and 
maintaining it was classed as pre-existing given the terms and conditions of the policy.
 
So, Mr B then brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that Great Lakes 
hadnt done anything wrong. Mr B disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
My role is to assess whether Great Lakes did anything wrong having regards to the vet 
history and the terms and conditions of the policy. All pet policies are sold on an unadvised 
basis which means Great Lakes, and its agents, are under no duty to give any consumer any 
advice on what policy might be best for them. It is for the consumer to decide based on the 
policy literature and policy documents. I note Mr B was insured elsewhere before so then he 
obviously decided to change to this policy. 
In line with other pet policies, this one doesnt want to provide cover for any condition that is 
deemed pre-existing. Great Lakes define that as anything your pet had treatment, 
medication or advice for in the last 24 months. It deems any conditions suffered previously 
which havent been treated within the last 24 months are not then pre-existing conditions, 
which is more generous than many other policies. All the policyholder has to show is that the 
vet history shows no treatment of the condition now being claimed for within the 24 months 
before the policy start date.  
So, the issue here is whether the vet history shows if there any treatment of this dogs left 
hind leg commensurate with the end diagnosis of cruciate and medial meniscus ligament 
within the previous 24 months from the policy starting in March 2020. 
Looking at the vet history a problem developed with the left hind leg on 18 December 2017. 
There was a query whether this was osteoarthritis (OA) and a comment that for the dogs 
age this would be surprising. Another vet saw the dog on 19 December 2017 and agreed it 
sounded suspicious for OA and the fear in having OA in a dog this young, meant then it 
might be lifelong. 
On 3 January 2018 it was report the anti-inflammatory was only being used on really bad 
days. On x-ray on 8 January 2018, with effusion in the stifle there was a possibility of partial 
cruciate ligament diagnosis. Those costs were claimed from the previous insurer and paid 
and the claim was detailed as partial cruciate rupture. 
The dog continued to heal throughout February 2018 and further claim was made to the 
previous insurer on 27 February 2018 again for partial cruciate rupture. On 11 April 2018 
the vet said 100% sound on LH looks good. 
However, on 28 November 2018 the vet noted the dog is coping well with LH- does use 
intermit previcox [the anti-inflammatory] on bad days. Although the dog walked well in and 
out of the consulting room, there was a thickened stifle on examination. 
Then on 13 July 2020 the vet history notes the owner wanted more previcox for injured leg 
given an incident at the park the day before. The vet said the dog would to be need to be 
seen first. On 7 September 2020 the owner asked for more previcox. On 22 September 2020 
the vet history noted using previcox more regularly but on low dose...
However, on 24 October 2020 the vet history notes O reports LH issues had been nicely 
controlled but was tumbled by another dog on a walk last week and 5/10th lame. .. On 
exam no effusion assc with the stifle but heat palpable around the stifle and certainly resents 
manipulation. Given medial buttress and thickening of the stifle, almost certainly OA 
involvement and suspicious trauma has unsettled this
Following on from this on 14 December 2020 the cytology results show the following:
These findings are suggestive of degenerative joint disease and/or remodeling 
associated with previous damage and surgery on this joint.
Given the Great Lakes definition of pre-existing condition, it requires no treatment and 
obviously continued intermittent use, as detailed in the vet note of 28 November 2018, of the 
anti-inflammatory of previcox is treatment. 
Great Lakes instructed a vet to look over the history. He said given the results of the x-ray on 
8 January 2018, that diagnosed a partial cruciate rupture as effusion was noted around the 
left stifle. It also showed no overt signs of OA.  So, he felt this superseded the suspicion of 
OA as it was actually a diagnosis of cruciate disease. With a clear indication that previcox 
was used intermittently after that, as shown in the vet history entry for 28 November 2018. 
This vet also discussed cruciate ligament disease and explained is the gradual degradation 
of the fibres in the cruciate ligament as opposed to any acute trauma which is necessary in humans for such ligament rupture. He also explained that OA is a result of cruciate instability 
and is evitable. And clearly no OA was seen on this dog in the x-rays of 2018. 
Sadly Mr B vet who wrote to Great Lakes on 15 January 2021 doesnt appreciate the 
definition of pre-existing condition in the policy meaning that no treatment for the previous  
24 months was essential, as he doesnt discuss the fact that prescriptions for previcox were 
being made and used and doesnt deal with the vet entry of November 2018. Therefore, I 
dont find his evidence persuasive to the issues here.
Mr Bs dog had a partial cruciate tear in January 2018 and the treatment and investigation 
costs were paid under Mr Bs previous policy with another insurer. Sadly, his dog then 
suffered a complete cruciate ligament tear plus involvement of the medial meniscus ligament 
in October 2020. I am persuaded that cruciate ligament issues are a disease process rather 
than from acute injuries as the scientific literature is now very clear on that. So given the two 
years between these two issues plus the intermittent use of an anti-inflammatory throughout 
that time which is treatment, I dont consider Great Lakes were wrong to conclude that 
since there was treatment pertaining to these left hind leg issues during the 24 months 
before this policy started, the condition was therefore excluded. 
Given the lack of OA evidence in the x-rays taken in 2018 as detailed by Great lakes vet, I 
dont agree as Mr B states his dog was suffering from OA. Therefore, I dont agree the 
previcox was treating OA, as none was found at the time it was prescribed. 
Dogs running into one another, playing and tumbling is normal dog behaviour. I dont 
consider this type of play could amount to such traumatic events sufficient to tear a cruciate 
ligament without a disease process in the cruciate ligament also occurring at the same time. 
Otherwise dogs would be routinely tearing their cruciate ligament with any dog play with 
another dog and that certainly isnt the case. 
I do appreciate and understand Mr B will be deeply disappointed with my decision. But given 
the vet history evidence, the opinions of Mr Bs vet and that of Great Lakes vet and the 
definition of pre-existing conditions including treatment in the policy, I am far more 
persuaded that Great Lakes decision on this claim was reasonable and fair in saying it was 
excluded from being able to be paid as a pre-existing condition which was treated during 
the 24 months before the policy start date.   
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman