DRN-4238148
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as H, is unhappy that TSB Bank plc used a portion of 
its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) funds to reduce Hs overdraft balance.
Hs complaint is brought to this service by one of its directors, whom Ill refer to as Mr M.
What happened
H has a business current account (BCA) with TSB which had an £8,000 overdraft facility. In 
May 2020, H successfully applied for a £20,000 BBL, and it received the loan funds into its 
TSB account on 21 May 2020. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr M noticed that TSB had reduced Hs overdraft facility from £8,000 to 
£500, effectively using £7,500 of Hs BBL funds to reduce Hs overdraft debt. Mr M wasnt 
happy about this, and he also wasnt happy that TSB wouldnt reinstate Hs £8,000 overdraft 
facility, so he raised a complaint on Hs behalf.
TSB responded to Mr M and explained that Hs overdraft facility expired on 24 May 2020, 
which was three days after H had received the BBL funds into its BCA. TSB also confirmed 
that Hs application to reinstate the overdraft facility of £8,000 had been declined by TSB 
following a credit reference agency search conducted as part of the application process. As 
such, TSB didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards H and so didnt uphold Hs complaint. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so he referred Hs complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that timing of the overdraft 
expiry in relation to the receipt of the BBL funds had been coincidental, and they didnt feel 
that TSB had acted unfairly in how theyd managed the situation. Mr M remained 
dissatisfied, so Hs complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that TSB have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr M has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding Hs 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr M for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr M notes I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it shouldnt be 
taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read and 
considered all the submissions provided by both H and TSB. Rather, it should be taken that I 
have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly in this letter 
to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Mr M feels that TSB have knowingly taken £7,500 of Hs £20,000 BBL funds to reduce Hs 
overdraft debt with TSB. But having considered all the information and evidence available to 
me here, I dont feel that this was the case. Instead, I feel that the fact that Hs overdraft 
facility expired three days after H received the BBL funds was a quirk of timing and therefore 
coincidence, rather than being any deliberate act instigated by TSB.
Im also not convinced that whats happened here has been of detriment to H as Mr M 
contends. This is because Hs overdraft facility was always going to expire on 24 May 2020. 
And so, if H hadnt received the BBL funds into its account when it did, H would have been a 
notably worse position that what transpired, being with a greatly reduced overdraft facility 
and being suddenly in a large unauthorised overdraft position which would have been 
reported to Hs credit file accordingly. And  if H couldnt reach an agreement with TSB on 
how to clear the unauthorised overdraft balance  recovery activities may have been 
commenced against H for the unauthorised overdraft balance by TSB around that time.
Mr M has explained that he wasnt aware that Hs overdraft facility was expiring, having not 
received any letters from TSB about the impending expiry, and says that he would have 
renewed the overdraft facility had he known that he needed to do so. But TSB have 
demonstrated to my satisfaction that these letters were sent, and that they were sent to the 
correct address. And so, if H didnt receive those letters, then this isnt something which Id 
consider holding TSB accountable for  given that the delivery of correctly sent letters is 
undertaken by a postal service and isnt something over which TSB have direct control.
Additionally, it must be recognised that an overdraft facility isnt a right that a company has 
but is entirely at the discretion of the lending bank. And TSB have explained that when Mr M 
did apply for Hs overdraft facility to be reinstated in June 2020, the month after it was 
reduced, the application was declined because of adverse information obtained from the 
credit file review undertaken as part of that application process. 
As such, if Mr M had received the letters sent by TSB and had applied for a renewal of Hs 
£8,000 overdraft facility before it expired, I feel its unlikely that the renewal application would 
have been successful  for the same reason the later application was unsuccessful  and 
that Hs overdraft facility would still have been reduced to the £500 limit it presently sits at.
Mr M is unhappy that TSB didnt phone H to advise of the expiring overdraft facility. But I 
wouldnt expect TSB to call all its overdraft facility holders in the way that Mr M suggests 
here, and I note that Hs preferred contact method is listed with TSB as being by post.
Mr M is also unhappy that when he tried to call TSB, he was unable to get through due to 
excessively long hold times. Mr M has explained that he feels this may have been because 
of the impact of the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, which may have meant 
that many of TSBs employees were working from home in ad-hoc arrangements. 
Mr M was asked by our investigator to provide this service with his phone records of any 
calls he made to TSB but to date he hasnt done so. However, I feel that Mr Ms speculation 
may be accurate here. But I also feel that if it were the case that TSB were struggling to answer calls quickly 
because of the change in working practices mandated by the emergence of the Covid-19 
pandemic in 2020, that this isnt something Id consider it fair to hold TSB accountable for. 
Instead, Id consider any long hold times experienced by Mr M at that time to be an 
unfortunate consequence of an unprecedented event. And given the context and unforeseen 
nature of that event, I wouldnt consider it to be an instance of unfair customer service.  
All of which means that I dont feel that TSB have done anything wrong here or acted unfairly 
towards H as Mr M contends. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing TSB to take any further action here. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr M 
was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman