DRN-2903332
The complaint
X complains that National Savings and Investments unfairly delayed a transfer of his Junior 
Individual Savings Account (JISA) from another financial firm.
X is represented by Mr B. In this decision, to make things as clear as possible, Ill refer to 
any actions taken by Xs representative as if they were taken by X himself.
  
What happened
X opened a JISA with NS&I on 18 April 2020. He asked NS&I to transfer in all of his 
previous and current years subscriptions from his old provider (N). He says the transfer in 
wasnt completed until 7 September 2020. And he says that despite being assured, on at 
least three occasions, that interest on the transfer in would be backdated to 18 April 2020, 
this didnt happen.
He complained to NS&I. It investigated his complaint. It said it had carried out initial checks 
to confirm Xs identity and had completed this on 30 April. It had sent X a JISA authority 
form shortly after that to enable the application to be completed. Once that had been 
received it says it sent the transfer authority form to X and this was received back on 24 
May 2020 and sent to N on that same date.
NS&I said N returned the form to it because the registered contact didnt match its records. 
NS&I said it received this information on 12 June 2020. It accepted that it hadnt told X 
about this when hed phoned it on 14 June. It hadnt given him this information until 7 July 
2020, after hed complained.
NS&I also accepted that it had given X incorrect information about backdating interest to 
the date the account was opened. It said it could pay interest from the date it received the 
transfer funds from N. It also accepted it had given incorrect information in its initial final 
response letter to X. But it said it hadnt received the transfer funds on 19 August, which 
was the date N had told X it had sent the funds to NS&I. It said it only received the cheque 
from N on 3 September and had credited it to the account on 7 September 2020.
Because of what happened NS&I agreed to pay £44.39 which it said was the difference in 
the interest X wouldve received for the period from 14 June to 7 July. It said 14 June was 
the date it shouldve informed him about the issue concerning the registered contact details 
on his transfer form. It also agreed to pay him £150 (in total) for the delays and for the 
distress and inconvenience hed experienced because of the incorrect information hed been 
given.
X didnt accept this. He complained to our service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint. She thought that NS&I was responsible for the delay between 14 June and 7 
July when it hadnt told X about the need to change the registered contact details with N. 
But she said it had resolved this by paying him the difference in interest for the period 
after 14 June. She didnt think NS&I was responsible for any other part of the delay in the 
transfer process.
She also considered the lost interest which X said hed been promised which wouldve 
applied from 18 April when he opened the account. NS&I had acknowledged hed been 
given incorrect information and itd paid him a total amount of £150 by way of 
compensation. She thought this was fair and reasonable. So, she didnt think it should 
have to do anything more.
X wasnt satisfied. He said if hed been given correct information in April about the 
interest, he wouldve put pressure on both NS&I and N to complete the process quicker. 
He thought the whole process shouldve taken about 6 or seven weeks  and not almost 
five months, as had been the case.
Our investigator considered again what X had said. She asked N for information about 
when it had sent the cheque to NS&I. It said it had sent it on 19 August 2020. N had also 
confirmed that although it had experienced some issues with post itd sent in June, there 
hadnt been any problems in August. So, our investigator said that N shouldnt be held 
responsible for any delays in the post. She wouldve expected NS&I to have received the 
cheque within at least 5 days. She thought NS&I should pay X a further £50 because of 
this further delay in processing his transfer.
NS&I didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules which apply to cash ISA transfers set out the timelines that ISA 
providers should adhere to. And theres also guidance which sets out best 
practice. When considering what is a fair and reasonable way to resolve Xs 
complaint, Ive looked at what happened in light of both the rules and the 
guidance.
Id just point out at the outset that in this provisional decision, Im only looking 
at Xs complaint about NS&I. Hes also raised a complaint about the old 
provider here (N). That complaint needs to be dealt with separately.
The new provider has five business days to send the transfer request to the old 
provider
The first part of the rules state that the new provider (in this case NS&I) has 
five business days to forward the instruction to the old provider (in this case N). 
So, Ive thought about when the clock started to run in this case.
X applied to NS&I for a JISA account on 18 April 2020. NS&I completed its usual 
checks on the application and sent him a transfer authority form to complete on 4 
May. I can see that NS&I received the completed form on 24 May and sent it to N 
on that date. Having looked at what happened Im satisfied that NS&I acted fairly 
when it sent the transfer form to N on 24 May. Im satisfied it didnt unreasonably 
delay its checks on the application before sending the transfer form to X. And, it 
sent the completed form to N well within the time set out in the rules.
So, although X has argued that NS&I should backdate interest on the JISA to 18 
April 2020, I dont think its fair or reasonable to require it to do that. Ill consider further below what X has told us about assurances NS&I gave him about when he 
would start to receive interest.
As 24 May was a Sunday, the rules assume that N wouldve received it on 27 
May (allowing one business day for post).
N didnt accept the form. It said that the contact details on the form didnt accord 
with its own records. N sent a letter to NS&I dated 6 June to inform it about the 
issue. I would just note that I think it took N longer than it shouldve taken it to get 
back to NS&I  but that didnt change the outcome here since NS&I didnt action 
the letter until X contacted it on 7 July. N was entitled to say that the transfer 
couldnt continue until the registered contact was changed.
The guidance states that where there is an issue, such as the issue here with the 
contact details, the case cannot be pended. This means that the transfer 
process effectively has to start again. The clock would only start to run again 
from the date that NS&I received a duly completed transfer form. But that doesnt 
mean that NS&I shouldve unreasonably delayed dealing with the information N 
sent to it in its letter dated 6 June.
NS&I accepted that it did unreasonably delay here. It didnt inform X about the 
problems with the form until he contacted it on 7 July. As a result, it didnt send him 
a new form until after that date. He returned the new form on 21 July. And it is this 
date which triggered again the first part of the transfer process under the rules. 
NS&I sent the transfer form to N on 21 July  so it complied with the five-business 
day rule.
The old provider has five business days to send the funds and the transfer history 
to the new provider
The next part of the rules state that N has five business days from 23 July to send 
the funds to NS&I. Ive noted that NS&I told N it would accept payment 
electronically and had provided the necessary details to facilitate that. N didnt 
make an electronic payment. It issued a cheque. It didnt do that until 19 August 
2020  which was outside of the time limits set out in the rules. And, NS&I says it 
didnt receive this cheque until 3 September.
The guidance states that as soon as N recognised thered be a delay (beyond 12 
August) it shouldve notified both NS&I and X of the reasons for that delay and 
informed them of the likely timetable for resolution. N did write to NS&I by letter 
dated 24 July. It again said that the registered contact details needed to be 
updated. But, at that date X had already provided the updated registered contact 
details. So, that wasnt a valid reason to delay the transfer.
Ive looked at the reasons given for the delays, including the delay in the receipt 
of the cheque. Im satisfied its not fair or reasonable to say that NS&I was 
wholly responsible for those delays. Some of the reasons for those delays 
needs to be resolved between N and NS&I. But I dont think its fair or 
reasonable for X to be disadvantaged whilst they seek to resolve those issues. 
That appears to be the purpose of the industry guidance.
The guidance states:
The new ISA provider should apply the transferred funds to the customers 
account.Interest on the transferred funds should be backdated either to the date 
on the cheque, inclusive, or to the date which represents day 16 of the 
transfer process, inclusive  whichever is earlier.
So, in this case NS&I shouldve backdated interest on the transferred funds to 
day 16  that was a date which was 16 business days after 21 July 2020. That 
date wouldve been 12 August 2020. NS&I didnt do that. It only started to pay 
interest after it received and processed the funds. So, I dont think its done 
enough here to resolve this part of Xs complaint.
The assurances X was given about interest being backdated to 18 April 2020
X says he was told on three separate occasions that interest would be backdated 
to the date he applied for the JISA  18 April 2020. NS&I addressed this in its final 
response letter dated 23 September. It acknowledged that it had given him 
misleading information about this on numerous occasions. It said it would pay him 
a further £100 by way of apology for having given him misleading information.
So, theres no dispute that X was given misleading information. But I havent seen 
anything to indicate that, apart from his disappointment at the fact that interest 
wasnt backdated to 18 April, X wouldve changed his decision to transfer the 
funds from N to NS&I. His decision to make that transfer was because N had 
reduced its interest rate and the rate being offered by NS&I was more competitive.
I can see that NS&I apologised for the misleading information and paid him £100 
by way of compensation. I think thats fair and reasonable.
What should be done to put things right
Ive thought about what the rules and the guidance on ISA transfers require, and 
Ive also thought about the delay NS&I has acknowledged it was responsible for 
after it received the letter from N dated 6 June 2020.
NS&I initially agreed, in its letter dated 25 August 2020, to pay X the difference 
in interest between what he was being paid by N and what he wouldve been 
paid by NS&I for the period from 8 June 2020 until the date of receipt of the 
funds. It has since reneged on that and agreed only to pay the difference in 
interest from 14 June until 7 July. It also agreed to pay £50 by way of 
compensation for what happened when it didnt action Ns letter dated 6 June 
and a further £100 for having given him misleading information.
Having considered everything here, I dont think NS&I has done enough here. I 
think its fair and reasonable to require it to honour what it offered to do in its 
initial final response letter dated 25 August 2020. In that letter it agreed to pay X 
the difference between the rate he was receiving from N and the rate he wouldve 
received from NS&I for the period from 8 June 2020 to the date of settlement.
Although, as mentioned above, I dont think NS&I was wholly responsible for the 
delay in settlement here, under the industry guidance it wouldve been required to 
backdate the settlement to a date no later than 12 August 2020. Since that date 
was before its letter of 25 August, I think its fair and reasonable to require it to pay 
the difference in interest received by X for the entire period from 8 June to the date 
when NS&I started to pay interest on the funds.Ive also considered the trouble and upset X was caused when he was given 
misleading information and when he had to contact NS&I on several occasions to 
prompt it to progress the matter. Its already paid him £150 (in total) by way of 
compensation for this. Having thought about what happened, I think thats fair and 
reasonable. I dont intend to require it to have to pay him anything further.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about National Savings and Investments. I intend to require it to:
if it hasnt done so already, pay X £150 (in total) for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result of what happened; and
pay X the difference, on the sum transferred to National Savings and 
Investments, between what X received in interest from his old provider and what 
he wouldve received from National Savings and Investments from 8 June 2020 
until the date that National Savings and Investments started to pay interest to him 
on this sum. If it has already paid X £44.39 as set out in its letter dated 23 
September 2020, it may deduct that amount from its calculation of interest.
X accepted my provisional decision.
NS&I said it had already paid X £50 in August 2020 and a further £100 in September 2020. It 
reviewed my provisional decision and agreed to pay the difference in interest which it 
calculated as follows:
2.25% on £32,529.30 from 8 June 2020 to 2 September 2020 less the £44.39 it had 
already paid. This totalled £130.07.
X has confirmed that the information provided by NS&I is correct.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I have not changed my view 
about how this complaint should be resolved. 
Both X and NS&I have confirmed that £150 has already been paid to X. 
NS&I provided its calculation of the difference in the amount of interest X received from his 
old provider and the amount of interest he wouldve received from NS&I for the period from 8 
June 2020 until the date NS&I started to pay him interest on the sum of money being 
transferred. It deducted from this amount £44.39  because it said it had already paid him 
this amount. NS&I said the amount it would pay X for the difference in interest was £130.07. 
X has confirmed that the calculation provided by NS&I is correct. So, that is the amount for 
the difference in interest which NS&I should now pay X.Having considered everything here, for the reasons set out above and in my provisional 
decision, I uphold this complaint and require NS&I to pay X £130.07 for the difference in 
interest paid to him from 8 June 2020 until 2 September 2020.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint about National Savings and 
Investments. I now require it to:
pay X £130.07 (in total) for the difference in interest paid to him during the 
period from 8 June 2020 until the date when National Savings and Investments 
started to pay interest to him on the amount transferred from his old provider into 
his account with it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman