DRN-4235889
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice he was given by TWM Ltd to transfer two of his pensions to 
another personal pension and subsequently invest further money into it.  He says TWM Ltd 
didnt make it clear it would be better to leave his pension plans where they were, and the 
advice resulted in him suffering a financial loss.
What happened
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of the 
complaint to both parties in June 2023. The background and circumstances to the complaint 
were set out in that assessment. However in summary, TWM competed a fact find in 
October 2021 which recorded that Mr P was the director of a company and received income 
of £12,750 a year and dividends of £10,000. He had two personal pensions - one valued 
around £119,000 and the other around £77,000. He had about £100,000 in cash deposits 
and £50,000 in business deposits. 
The investigator said Mr P had no other investments or savings and no debts. His attitude to 
risk (ATR) was noted as nil to one, but following a full risk assessment his ATR was scored 
as 2 out of 10. After further conversations it was noted that a score of 3 out of 10 was 
preferred. It was also recorded that Mr P had a high capacity for loss taking Mr P and his 
wifes circumstances into account.
The fact-find also recorded that:
Mr P was considering closing his business in December of that year, and wanted his 
pensions to be ready to support his retirement if required.
If early retirement was possible Mr P wanted to take ad-hoc withdrawals to take 
advantage of any unused personal allowance before his State pension started.
Mr P was aware of the guarantees offered by his existing scheme, but he wanted 
access to his funds and preferred drawdown to provide the flexibility to take 
withdrawals within the personal allowance. He also preferred the death benefits 
available from this type of arrangement.
TWM sent Mr P a suitability report dated 15 October 2021. TWM advised Mr P to 
consolidate both his pensions to a new personal pension with another pension provider, and 
invest in a Governed Retirement Income Fund. It was noted that although there were 
guarantees on one of Mr Ps existing pensions, neither that plan or the other offered 
drawdown. This was identified as the most important aspect of why TWM considered its 
advice was suitable; Mr P wanted flexibility and not an annuity.
TWM charged Mr P an initial fee of £3,000 for its advice, with an ongoing yearly fee of 0.5%. 
The pension provider also charged product fees which were outlined in the suitability report. 
Both of Mr Ps pensions were transferred to the new pension arrangement. Mr P 
subsequently wanted to make a further contribution of £10,000 into a pension, and this was 
made and invested into the same fund in February 2022 following advice from TWM.
Mr P subsequently became concerned about the performance of his plan, and complained to 
TWM in October 2022. TWM didnt uphold the complaint, and Mr P referred it to us. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said hed 
considered the suitability of the advice given against the relevant regulations in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Handbook - COBS 9 (Conduct of Business Sourcebook). He said the 
key point was that Mr P wanted a drawdown plan which wasnt available through his existing 
plans. So if Mr P wanted to benefit from drawdown he needed to do something.
The investigator said Mr P didnt want an annuity. And he could see why he wanted to go 
into drawdown given his circumstances; given his plans for his business; the option to draw 
income when he wanted; not having restrictions when trying to take his benefits, and his 
capacity for loss taking into account the overall household income. The investigator thought 
the advice to transfer was suitable given drawdown achieved Mr Ps objectives for flexibility 
in taking income, and it wasnt available from his existing pensions. 
The investigator noted that Mr P had said hed lost out on certain guarantees provided by 
one of his former plans. He said he appreciated this point, however that the illustrations 
provided at the time suggested that if Mr P was going to lose money then the losses would 
be minimal. He said the illustrations were based on achievable growth figures. And that in 
order to be able to flexibly withdraw money he needed to move away from the existing plans 
 if he had remained where he was he wouldnt have had the flexibility he required.
Mr P had also said the new plan was more expensive than the old plans. But the investigator 
said it didnt appear that the new plans charges were more expensive on an annual basis, 
and it provided the features that Mr P required.
The investigator said he thought the investments that TWM had recommended for Mr P were 
suitable. He thought they were reasonably aligned to Mr Ps agreed attitude to risk. The 
investigator acknowledged that Mr P may have made more money if hed remained where 
he was. But he thought this was only seen with the benefit of hindsight. He said the 
illustrations provided at the time showed a reasonable and achievable growth rate. And that 
there were other factors outside of TWMs control that meant Mr P had lost money. 
The investigator said that investments that had historically been considered as lower risk 
had suddenly decreased in value significantly in 2022 - such as gilts and bonds. He said he 
thought this was the main reason why Mr P had suffered such financial losses and why his 
investments hadnt done well. The investigator thought that overall, the advice to transfer 
and invest in the Governed Retirement Income Fund was suitable for Mr Ps circumstances. 
The investigator went onto consider the advice that Mr P had been given to make a further 
contribution of £10,000 into the new pension. Mr P had said TWM hadnt completed any due 
diligence work, or checked whether it would be appropriate to make the contribution given 
the losses he was experiencing at the time. The investigator said it appeared that if Mr Ps 
investments were losing money at that time the amount was minimal. He said the value of 
investments went up and down, and a slight decrease in value wouldnt automatically mean 
TWM would have needed to review Mr Ps plan or consider a different investment strategy. 
The investigator didnt think there was any particular need for TWM to have made changes 
or carried out any more significant research when the £10,000 contribution was made.
Mr P had also raised concerns about his details being passed onto another advising firm 
(which I will refer to as Firm A). The investigator said he understood that TWM had merged 
with Firm A, and as part of the merger process details of TWMs clients had been passed on to it. Firm A offered former TWM clients an ongoing service. Mr P was unhappy as he didnt 
give TWM permission to share his details with any other party. 
The investigator explained that it was a matter for the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) to determine whether there had been a data breach in law. But in considering what 
was fair and reasonable, he said it wasnt unusual for a firm taking over another firm to 
approach its former clients to see if they wanted to use its services or go elsewhere. He said 
TWMs terms and conditions which Mr P had signed, provided for TWM to share his details 
in this way. So he didnt think TWM had done anything wrong by sharing his details. He said 
as far as he was aware Mr P hadnt taken up Firm As offer. As Mr Ps relationship with TWM 
had ended, no further charges had been taken from the date the relationship had terminated. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators findings. He exchanged further correspondence with 
the investigator, but ultimately, as an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed 
to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given Mr Ps objectives and circumstances at the time, Im satisfied that a transfer 
(technically known as a switch) was suitable in itself. I think there were good reasons for 
recommending the transfer, in particular that it provided the flexibility to allow Mr P to 
withdraw income flexibly as and when required.  In my opinion drawdown suited Mr Ps 
particular objectives and circumstances, and he was in a position to accept its associated 
risks. 
I think the main downside of transferring, was, as Mr P has mentioned, the loss of certain 
guarantees on one of the existing pensions. In particular, part of one of Mr Ps plans had a 
4% guaranteed growth rate attached to it. 
The 4% guaranteed growth rate only applied to a part of the pension  about 19% at that 
time. Taking into account the 1.5% guaranteed growth on the majority of the plan, the new 
plan would only needed to have achieved about 2% net growth on the total value transferred 
from that particular plan to match the guaranteed growth rate overall. 
So although there was a 4% guaranteed growth rate, it was only on a relatively small 
proportion of the plan. The investigator said he thought the charges on the new plan were 
about the same as the existing plans. However, I think when looking at all the charges, 
including the initial and ongoing charges, the charges on the new plan were slightly higher. 
But even in that context, I think there would have been a reasonable expectation that the 
overall growth rate could be matched (given the main reason to transfer was for the flexibility 
to make withdrawals) or improved upon. Mr P was thinking about accessing his pension 
within a few months. And in order to access his benefits flexibly he needed to give up those 
guarantees. 
I think its also worth noting that a significant proportion of the transfer value was made up of 
a terminal bonus  approximately 25%. That terminal bonus wasnt guaranteed. So whilst 
the plan had some protection through the exiting guaranteed benefits and smoothing, if Mr P 
had stayed in the plan the total value payable from it wasnt guaranteed to be immune from 
any subsequent negative market performance. 
Having said that, I accept that Mr Ps existing plan with the guarantees (or the other plan 
without the guaranteed growth rate) were unlikely to have fallen in value to the same extent as the pension Mr P transferred to did. As Ive said above, I think a transfer was, in principle, 
suitable for Mr Ps circumstances and objectives. So like the investigator, Ive considered 
whether the fund that Mr P was invested in was suitable for his attitude to risk. 
Mr P has said that his attitude to risk was and still is 0-1 as referred to in the investigators 
assessment. I think the nil to one rating mentioned by the investigator was recorded in 
relation to describing Mr Ps knowledge and experience of retirement and investment 
products on the fact find. And it was restated on the suitability letter. The risk profiling 
assessment recorded that Mr P had an attitude to risk of 2 out of 10 (Cautious). And the 
suitability letter said following a discussion about the risk questionnaire Mr P agreed to a 
level 3 out of 10 (Moderately Cautious). 
In my opinion the level of risk TWM understood Mr P had agreed to take and which its 
recommendations were based on was clearly set out in the letter. I dont think that level of 
risk was inappropriate for Mr P to take given his circumstances; the household had some 
guaranteed pension provision. I think if Mr P wasnt prepared to take any risk he could have 
alerted the firm at the time. The suitability letter explained the benefits of buying an annuity 
(which might be appropriate for an individual not wanting any risk but lacks flexibility). It went 
onto say that Mr Ps priority was flexibility of income, which Im satisfied was consistent with 
his circumstances and the evidence presented.
I think that the fund recommended and its asset make-up was reasonably aligned to Mr Ps 
agreed attitude to risk.  As explained by the investigator, funds like Mr Ps with significant 
investments in gilts and bonds suffered significant falls in value, and in particular during the 
period that Mr P was invested. The fund that Mr P was invested in would ordinarily be 
considered as presenting lower risks, and be suitable for cautious investors. Other funds 
presenting similar levels of risk also suffered significant falls in value; it wasnt just Mr Ps 
particular fund that was affected. Large numbers of investors in these types of assets/funds, 
many in or approaching retirement, were also hit by the significant fall in values. I recognise 
that this will be of little comfort to Mr P. But I think it illustrates that the economic conditions 
at the time had a wider impact on what were considered to be more cautious investments, 
rather than there was something deficient with the fund TWM recommended for Mr P. 
Mr P has raised concerns about his details being passed onto Firm A. As the investigator 
explained, its a matter for the ICO to decide whether there has been a data breach in law. 
However if TWM provided details to Firm A when it shouldnt have done, we can consider 
the impact on Mr P and award compensation for any detriment resulting from it. 
As the investigator said, its not unusual where one financial firm has taken over another that 
the new firm reaches out to the old firms clients to see if they want a continued relationship. 
And TWMs client agreement provided for TWM to transfer its rights and obligations where 
Mr Ps rights under the agreement werent affected. I dont think the transfer to Firm A had a 
detrimental effect on Mr Ps rights.
In any event, TWM sent Mr P an e-mail dated 2 November 2022 explaining that it would be 
partnering with Firm A in order to continue to provide an ongoing service. It said the ongoing 
service charge Mr P was paying would continue, and that in order to carry on providing 
services under Firm As banner the personal data that was held for Mr P would be 
transferred to Firm A. It said no action was necessary if Mr P was happy for the transfer of 
the servicing to Firm A. But that if Mr P wished to object to the transfer of data he should let 
the firm know within two weeks. 
Mr P sent an e-mail to TWM on 17 January 2023 effectively terminating his relationship with 
it. An e-mail from the adviser Mr P had been dealing with at TWM (albeit sent from Firm As 
e-mail address) said it was its understanding that Mr P didnt want to engage with Firm A and that it would therefore terminate its services. TWM has provided evidence showing no 
further charges were paid after 16 January 2023. So I dont think Mr P was inappropriately 
charged.
I appreciate that Mr P will be very disappointed with my findings.  However overall, for the 
reasons outlined above and by the investigator, Ive not been persuaded that TWMs advice 
was unsuitable in the particular circumstances, or that his complaint should succeed.
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman