DRN-4425792
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say that HSBC UK Bank Plc has unfairly refused to put in place the interest 
rate product they had successfully applied for. To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs C want 
HSBC to put the interest rate product in place and backdate it.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have a mortgage with HSBC, taken out in 2020. The mortgage was originally 
on a two-year fixed rate which was due to expire in September 2022.
In early August 2022 Mr and Mrs C applied for an interest rate product switch. Mr C chose 
the product, a three-year fixed rate at 3.09% which came with a product fee of £999. During 
the online application Mr C opted to pay the mortgage fee upfront rather than add it to the 
mortgage balance. 
HSBC required Mrs C to provide consent, and because she had difficulty logging into the 
mortgage hub she spoke to HSBC on 4 August 2022. HSBC went through the process of 
confirming Mrs Cs consent to the rate switch. At the end of the call the HSBC agent said 
that the rate would be ready to start at the end of the current one, depending on which rate 
theyd chosen, and whether it came with a booking fee that needed to be paid.
Mr and Mrs C say they believed their application for a new product had been successful. 
However, because they didnt pay the £999 product fee, the application lapsed and they 
didnt get the interest rate theyd chosen.
HSBC said it had sent messages via online banking to remind Mr and Mrs C that the fee was 
payable, but Mr and Mrs C say they rarely use online banking and so didnt see these. 
Mr and Mrs C complained, saying they believed theyd done all they needed to do to 
complete the application. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought to our service 
where an investigator looked at what had happened. 
The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. The investigator said that the 
online confirmation screen Mr and Mrs C had seen led them to think the application had 
been successful. He didnt think Mr and Mrs C would have had any reason to check their 
online banking, especially as HSBC doesnt send any communication outside of online 
banking reminding customers to check their messages. The investigator thought that if the 
process had been clearer, Mr and Mrs C would have paid the fee.
HSBC disagreed with the investigator. The bank said that, after the confirmation screen, 
there was a reminder that the booking fee still needed to be paid. 
HSBC said that the terms and conditions of the offer, which Mr and Mrs C had confirmed 
theyd read, said that the offer would expire if the booking fee wasnt paid. The bank said 
that on 3 August 2022 a message was sent to Mrs C advising her of the need to accept the 
offer and that any fees needed to be paid before the rate could be changed. This was also 
confirmed during the telephone call on 4 August 2022.
HSBC also said it had sent messages to both Mr and Mrs C separately on 5 August 2022 to 
remind them that the booking fee was outstanding. HSBC said that, as the fee wasnt paid, 
the offer lapsed. HSBC said that it did not use email to contact customers, as this isnt 
secure, and there was no requirement for the bank to send a letter reminding Mr and Mrs C 
to check their online banking messages.
The investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion that the bank hadnt done enough to 
alert Mr and Mrs C that the fee remained outstanding, and so the complaint has been 
referred to me for a decision.
Provisional decision of 10 October 2023
I issued a provisional decision in which I reached the following conclusions:
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C were aware from the product theyd chosen that they 
hadnt added the £999 product fee to the mortgage. Thats because the illustration 
they received showed that the fee was payable separately.
Ive also reviewed the screenshots HSBC has provided for the application process. I 
note that Mr and Mrs C say that the screen showed a green tick saying Thank you. 
Your application has been successful and that this led them to believe there was 
nothing further that needed to be done (other than Mrs C being able to give her 
consent, which she did on 4 August 2022).
However, immediately under the confirmation screen with the green tick it says:
What happens next?
Please note there is a fee(s) outstanding.
If you wish to pay now, please select Continue.
You can pay later by selecting Mortgage Options then My applications from 
Personal Internet Banking however payment will need to be made before we 
can process your request. 
Following payment we will advise you once your mortgage has been opened.
The screenshots also state that HSBC will send a secure message to individuals 
named on the mortgage. Please look out for updates within Online Banking in your 
My documents folder.
Im satisfied that when Mrs C spoke to HSBC on 4 August 2022 she was made 
aware that any outstanding fee would need to be paid.
I also note that on 2 March 2023 the investigator asked Mr C As there was a fee 
outstanding and you would have been aware if it had been paid or not, is there a 
reason why the fee wasnt paid?
In response Mr C said:  
As the lead application and HSBC customer I should have been informed if 
there were any outstanding steps required to finalise the application. 
However, I was only told that [Mrs C] needs to go online and accept the offer to complete the process. I was not informed thereafter that there was any 
additional requirements (and as I already bank with them had no reason 
therefore to think contrary to what I was told). I am an existing HSBC 
customer (and have been for 25+ years) so HSBC have my email, phone 
number and home address, all of which they use to contact me. However, for 
this application they did not contact me by any of these means to inform me 
that there was an outstanding requirement. If they had I would have acted. 
HSBCs failure to correctly inform me of the outstanding step to secure the 
offer, having previously informed that [Mrs C] just needs to go on their portal 
and confirm acceptance, led to the offer expiring without our knowledge.
However, Im afraid this response didnt, in fact, answer the investigators question 
about why, when the product selected came with a £999 fee, this hadnt been paid. 
There does not appear to have been any satisfactory explanation given for this.
Im satisfied that HSBC made it sufficiently clear from the application that it would 
communicate via its online portal, and there was therefore no obligation for the bank 
to use any other method of contact. Although Mr C says he doesnt use online 
banking, I would expect, having already been told that this is how the bank would be 
contacting him, that Mr and Mrs C would have checked their online banking 
messages  particularly as I am persuaded that they knew, or ought reasonably to 
have known, that theyd not paid the product fee.
In the circumstances, Im unable to find HSBC was at fault. Im satisfied the bank 
made it clear through the application process that there was a fee to be paid and that 
the rate switch wouldnt go ahead until it was paid. Im also satisfied that Mrs C was 
told this when she spoke to HSBC on 4 August 2022. Furthermore, HSBC also sent 
secure messages reminding Mr and Mrs C that the fee was outstanding.
Because the fee wasnt paid, the offer lapsed. In the circumstances, Im unable to 
find that HSBC has done anything wrong, or that it has treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly 
or unreasonably.
Responses to the provisional decision
HSBC had nothing further to add. Mr C reiterated previous points he made about believing 
the application had been completed, so I will not repeat those. Mr C noted the difference in 
my interpretation of the screenshots from those of the investigator and wondered if there had 
been inconsistency in the information provided by HSBC.
In relation to payment of the fee, Mr C said that he assumed, as a customer of HSBC, that 
the fee would be automatically deducted from his current account once the new mortgage 
product began. He said that if hed been told the fee was payable upfront, hed have paid it.
Mr C also said that its not correct that HSBC doesnt communicate by email because HSBC 
regularly sends him emails to let him know that, for example, the interest rate on his credit 
card is changing, with updates about making online card payments, or that his current 
account statement is ready.
Mr C said that he received no emails to say that there were secure messages waiting for him 
to review. Mr C argued that its unrealistic to expect him to check whether or not secure 
messages had been sent, given that HSBC had not made him aware of this means of 
communication.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the file from the outset, revisited my provisional decision and taken note of 
the additional points Mr C has made.
There is no inconsistency in the information provided by HSBC. The screenshots which both 
I and the investigator reviewed contain the information set out above relating to the need to 
pay the fee and prompts the applicant to continue in order for this to be paid. There is 
nothing on HSBCs website to persuades me that Mr C was led to believe that the fee would 
automatically be deducted from his current account. I am therefore not persuaded that it was 
a reasonable assumption for Mr C to make that the fee would be automatically deducted 
from his account. Had this been the case, Im satisfied HSBC would have said so, rather 
than specifically asking Mr and Mrs C to follow the steps required to pay the fee in the online 
application. 
The emails Mr C has referred to are standard ones banks send to customers with general 
information relevant to their accounts, but which do not contain account-specific or 
confidential information. I disagree with Mr C that HSBC failed to make him aware of the 
need to check his online banking for messages about the application. As stated above, this 
information was provided at the time the application was made. I have asked the investigator 
to send Mr and Mrs C the screenshots provided by HSBC, as confirmation of what I have 
stated above.
In all the circumstances, therefore, whilst I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Cs strength of feeling 
that they lost out on the rate they wanted, Im unable to find that HSBC has done anything 
wrong. Mr and Mrs C were made aware of the need to pay the fee, and were not led to 
believe by HSBC that this would be deducted automatically from Mr Cs account. Im also 
satisfied that HSBC told Mr and Mrs C that updates would be provided through its online 
banking portal.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs C were hoping for. I am aware that increases 
in mortgage interest rates have had an impact on many mortgage borrowers. As a result, 
most mortgage lenders, HSBC included, have signed up to the Mortgage Charter, which sets 
out the support lenders can offer to borrowers. Information about HSBCs commitment to the 
Mortgage Charter can be found here:  https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/cost-of-living-
support/
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman