DRN-1843435
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), didnt make him aware he hadnt fully paid off his loan. He says the 
information reported on his credit file has affected his ability to borrow elsewhere.
What happened
In late 2014, Mr B took out a loan with BPF with a term of 48 months. In November 2018,    
Mr B cancelled the direct debit hed set up to make his monthly repayments. He thought hed 
finished paying off the loan. 
Almost a year later, Mr B checked his credit report and found out hed missed the last loan 
repayment. He phoned BPF who told him there was small outstanding balance. BPF agreed 
to remove the adverse information from Mr Bs credit file if he paid the balance. 
Mr B paid the balance and BPF arranged for his credit report to be updated, but Mr B 
remained unhappy. He thought BPF should have done more to make him aware of the 
arrears. He said that hed been refused borrowing from other lenders because of the 
negative information on his credit file.
BPF acknowledged it hadnt chased Mr B for the arrears. But it said that Mr B was 
responsible for ensuring he maintained his repayments. He was in arrears because hed 
cancelled his direct debit prematurely. BPF had removed the negative information from      
Mr Bs credit file as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
He said BPF had sent annual statements to the address on its system which was Mr Bs 
mothers address. Mr B hadnt informed BPF hed moved. It was Mr Bs responsibility to 
ensure hed paid the loan in full before cancelling his direct debit. BPF had a duty to update 
Mr Bs credit file with accurate information so it wasnt wrong to mark the file with the missed 
payment. BPF had acted fairly and reasonably after Mr B had told it about his mistake by 
removing the markers from his credit file.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators view. He felt BPF should have made more of an effort 
to contact him. He didnt receive any letters or phone calls and because of that he had 
around 10 months of missed payments on his credit report. Hed struggled to get credit 
because of this.
As Mr B has disagreed, his complaint has been passed to me. 
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
BPF had a responsibility to treat Mr B fairly and communicate with him in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr Bs loan agreement. This says he needed to pay 48 monthly 
repayments. I can also see from a statement that Mr Bs first payment was taken by direct 
debit in December 2014.
BPF says it sent Mr B annual statements to the address hed provided, which Ive been told 
was his mothers address. It sent a statement in November 2018, which was around the time 
Mr Bs last instalment was due. Mr B says his mother would have passed his post on to him 
and he didnt receive this statement. But from the screenshots BPF has sent us, I think the 
statement was likely have been sent.
BPF has acknowledged it didnt send Mr B any reminders or chase him for the missing 
payment. But I cant see anything in the paperwork to show BPF was obligated to send 
letters or phone a customer to let them know they were in arrears.
The credit agreement sets out the consequences of missing payments which includes the 
wording your credit records may be affected, making it harder or more expensive for you to 
borrow again.
Lenders have an obligation to report accurate information to credit reference agencies. So, I 
think it was fair for BPF to report that Mr Bs account was in arrears.  
Mr B has acknowledged that he didnt repay the final instalment of his loan on time. I 
appreciate this was unintentional  hed cancelled his direct debit too early. I believe Mr B 
when he says he would have paid what was owing straight away if hed realised he was in 
arrears. 
When Mr B explained what had happened and brought the account up to date, BPF 
arranged for the negative information on his credit file to be removed. I think this shows BPF 
was sympathetic to Mr Bs situation and did what was reasonable to help him.
I appreciate it must have been frustrating for Mr B to realise he was in arrears on an account 
he believed hed settled almost a year earlier. He was understandably concerned that this 
might have been the reason for his difficulties in obtaining credit elsewhere. But overall, I 
think BPF has acted fairly and reasonably. So, I wont be asking BPF to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman