DRN-1704607
 
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a van he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S acquired his van under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service can look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the van should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the van, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Other relevant circumstances would include things like the age and the mileage when the 
van was supplied. This van was two years old and had already completed about 37,000 
miles. But I dont think a reasonable person would think it was of satisfactory quality if the 
engine was cutting out regularly.
Mr S first experienced issues with the van in November 2018 only a couple of months after 
hed taken receipt of it. Im persuaded its most likely this fault was present or developing 
when Mr S took receipt of the van as hed only had it for a short period of time before the 
problems started. In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows the business one 
opportunity to repair the problem.
The dealership referred Mr S to a franchised dealership to have the issue investigated, and 
resolved, as the van was under warranty. The franchised dealership have clearly been 
unable to resolve the problem as I can see the van has been returned to them on several 
occasions. The faults reported have all been related to the same issues.
I dont think its fair for MotoNovo to suggest that, as Mr S has had repairs completed 
elsewhere, it limits the redress they should provide. It was the supplying dealership who 
directed Mr S elsewhere to have the problems with his van rectified and regardless, it seems 
that Mr S has been keeping the supplying dealership informed and hes been having the van 
repaired at a franchised dealership who I think its fair to suggest will have significant 
expertise on his model of van. Given the fact that the franchised dealership were resolving 
problems under the warranty I think its unlikely Mr S would have expected to have to return 
it to the supplying dealership when he experienced subsequent problems with the van.
Putting things right
As a repair has not been successful, I think MotoNovo should now allow Mr S to reject the 
van and terminate his finance agreement with them.
Its clear Mr S has been inconvenienced by these issues as hes had to take the van for 
repairs and tells us hes had to have the van recovered on a couple of occasions. Hes also 
had to progress his complaint to this service when I think it could reasonably have been 
resolved earlier. So, in the circumstances, I think MotoNovo should compensate him for this, 
and I would agree with the investigator that £300 is reasonable.
Mr S appears to have had reasonable use of the vehicle so Im not asking MotoNovo to 
refund any instalments, but they should refund his deposit as hell need that money to fund 
an alternative vehicle. They should add interest to that refund as Mr S has been deprived of 
that money whilst hes been financing a van that wasnt of satisfactory quality.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the van at no cost to Mr S;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
pay Mr S £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this 
issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman