DRN-4008516
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Revolut Ltd unreasonably refused to refund several disputed 
transactions from her bank account which she didnt authorise or recognise. 
What happened
Miss W was working abroad and on 26 November 2022 her purse with her Revolut card in it 
and her phone were stolen. Consequently, on 27 November five transactions were paid out 
of her account which Miss W said she didnt recognise or authorise. They amounted to 
£3,750. Previous to these transactions, Miss W said the thieves tried to use her Revolut card 
for a purchase and then at an ATM and Revolut stopped those transactions because they 
were suspicious and froze her card, but it didnt freeze her account.  
Revolut said the appropriate authentication was done for all these transactions and that as 
consequently it couldnt see any point of compromise it would not refund these disputed 
transactions. It also reminded Miss W of her duty to keep all login details and passcodes 
secure. Miss W said her passcode to her card and the Revolut app are the same as this is 
what the Revolut system requires. 
Miss W also said she did keep all login details and passcodes secure and hadnt shared 
them with anyone. She also said that that her residency permit was in the same purse which 
caused her considerable trouble and upset too which she had to get renewed. 
 
So, she brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think Revolut did anything 
wrong. Miss W disagreed and so her complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 13 September, and I said the following: 
Miss W indicated the theft occurred when someone stole her phone and purse from 
her handbag. She said it was done by an attack. Based on the police report provided, 
along with other evidence such as evidence she replaced her phone and residency 
permit, Im satisfied her story is genuine. Understandably for Miss W this must have 
been a very traumatic event. Obviously, there is no evidence as to why this attack 
occurred but it could be that someone noted her using her phone to access her 
Revolut app or saw her do some transactions with her Revolut card and had 
effectively shoulder surfed her passcodes and therefore stole the phone and the 
purse. It could be that her phone was also unlocked at that time too. We wont ever 
know that, but I consider its a possibility. 
Revolut without any notification from Miss W at this stage stopped a purchase 
transaction with her card and an attempted ATM withdrawal with her card. So 
obviously Revoluts systems showed both transactions were possibly fraudulent and 
froze her card. It didnt however freeze her account fully. Miss W wasnt able to let 
Revolut know of the theft of her phone and purse until the next day given her phone 
was stolen so she had to wait until she could log on with her works iPad which is 
registered on her Revolut account. 
Miss W said when she set up her Revolut account she was under the impression the 
passcodes or PINs have to be the same for her card and the app. Revolut confirmed 
this is how its initially set up, but the customer can change both if they wish. Miss W 
confirmed she wasnt unaware of this. 
No passcodes were written down anywhere for the thieves to access according to 
Miss W but if she had been shoulder surfed that wouldnt make difference. Its clear 
the thieves accessed her phone and her app and carried out the five disputed 
transactions over a short period of time on 27 November 2022 and were able to deal 
with all the required confirmations that Revoluts system requires in order to do 
transactions. And once her account was empty there were no further attempts to 
make any further transactions. The fact that Face ID was required to access the app 
doesnt make a lot of difference in my view as once someone can access the phone 
its possible to change the biometrics depending on the settings. 
Based on the evidence available, and what Miss W has told us, I dont see that she 
authorised the transactions herself. That means under the relevant regulations, the 
Payments Services Regulations (PSRs) Revolut can only hold her liable in limited 
circumstances  such as if she has failed in her obligations to keep her security 
details safe either intentionally, or with gross negligence.
I havent seen any suggestion that Miss W intentionally gave her account or phone 
login information to her attackers. And I dont consider there is enough evidence to 
show Miss W was grossly negligent. Gross negligence is a very high bar for a bank 
to clear and I dont consider having ones phone and card stolen in an attack with no 
passcodes available reaches that high bar. Despite the fact its clear from the 
evidence that these payments were made by Miss Ws phone access to her app 
given the card was by then frozen. 
Therefore, I consider Revolut should refund these disputed transactions with interest 
from the date they were made. 
The thieves stole all of Miss Ws savings plus she had to get her work permit 
renewed. And obviously the entire incident, given it was an attack was grossly 
distressing for Miss W. As against that of course Revolut didnt cause the theft. But I 
consider it could have done more to help Miss W and indeed its systems could have 
also flagged up the unusual transactions at the time just like they did for the usage of 
her Revolut card. Therefore, I continue Revolut should pay Miss W compensation. I 
consider it should pay her £250 compensation for the distress and upset it caused 
her which is in line with other awards I have made in similar circumstances.
Miss W accepted my provisional decision. Revolut didnt agree it could have done anything 
more. It acknowledged biometric information can fail from time to time but felt as the account 
was accessed via a fingerprint didnt suggest the account was compromised, given there 
were no failed attempted recorded. Nonetheless it understood the payment could be 
considered as unauthorised, but it didnt think its system had failed in this instance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, Im remain its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Revoluts thoughts on the matter. However, given Miss Ws phone and card were stolen in an attack, plus that she might have been shoulder surfed plus that her phone might 
not have been locked at the time, I consider it remains fair and reasonable to not hold Miss 
W to be grossly negligent in this case. It also remains fair to conclude that Miss W didnt 
authorise these transactions herself and Revolut also agrees the transactions could be 
considered as authorised. 
So consequently, it remains my view that this complaint should be upheld.  
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that Im upholding this complaint. 
I now require Revolut Ltd to do the following:
Refund Miss W the sum of £3,750, adding interest of 8% simple per year from the 
date the transactions occurred to the date it refunds her. If income tax is to be 
deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to Miss W 
for HMRC purposes.
Pay Miss W the sum of £250 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman