DRN-3541860
The complaint
Mrs Es complaint is about advice given by InterestMe Financial Planning Limited (then Wise
Pension Group Limited) to transfer her personal pension plan to a self invested personal
pension (SIPP) and to invest via a discretionary fund manager (DFM).
For ease, Ive just referred below to InterestMe Financial Planning Limited (InterestMe).
References to InterestMe include Wise Pension Group Limited where appropriate.
What happened
Mrs E was contacted in 2016 by InterestMe about investing her personal pension via Strand
Capital Ltd, a DFM. She subsequently accepted InterestMes recommendation to transfer
her personal pension with Phoenix Life to a SIPP and invest in the Strand Growth Portfolio.
In July 2016 £23,427.69 was transferred from Phoenix Life to the new SIPP. Subsequently
£23,313.69 was invested via Strand Capital Ltd. In May 2017 Strand Capital Ltd went into
administration. I understand that Mrs Es Strand Growth Portfolio was sold in June 2018 for
£95.60.
Mrs E, via her representative, complained to InterestMe in June 2020. InterestMe didnt
respond and the complaint was referred to this service. It was considered by one of our
investigators who upheld it. Ive summarised his findings:
He highlighted the checklist published by the regulator in 2009 for pension switching
and the four key issues to consider: charges; existing benefits; risk; ongoing fund
management.
The new SIPP was more expensive than Mrs Es existing personal pension and there
were also adviser charges and a penalty for transferring. The justification for the
switch appeared to be based on the lack of funds within the existing personal
pension, which made diversification difficult. Plus only one free fund switch per year
was permitted. Whereas the SIPP allowed an investment manager to be appointed to
manage Mrs Es pension fund. The portfolio chosen invested in a mix of equities,
bonds and property and was automatically rebalanced each month to ensure the
allocation remained consistent with Mrs Es attitude to risk.
The investigator noted that Mrs Es existing personal pension was already invested in
funds with a mix of equities, fixed interest/cash, property and hedge funds (albeit
mostly fixed interest and cash). He thought the proportions more accurately reflected
Mrs Es recollection of her attitude to risk at the time  low to cautious. He questioned
the need for a portfolio balancing service given the modest size of Mrs Es fund and
when there was nothing to suggest she was a sophisticated investor or that she
wanted that type of service. The investigator thought there was no compelling
argument for transferring and incurring additional costs and charges for those
perceived advantages.
He also said that the assessment of Mrs Es attitude to risk as medium to higher was
questionable and based on limited evidence. Mrs E had said she had a low to
cautious attitude to risk. No consideration was given to her (lack of) previous
investment experience. The transfer and subsequent investment with Strand Capital
Ltd didnt match Mrs Es attitude to risk and was unsuitable.
The suitability report said Mrs E could expect an income shortfall in retirement but
she was a member of an occupational pension scheme and it was hoped that
entitlement would address that. There was no evidence that sufficient information
about what benefits Mrs Es occupational pension scheme might provide was
obtained.
The investigator had looked into that. He set out the benefits Mrs E had accrued in
the occupational scheme as at March 2021. Although that was some time after the
advice had been given, it was clear that a significant proportion of Mrs Es needs in
retirement would be met, particularly if she remained in service until the occupational
pension schemes normal pension age of 67. That meant she had no need to take
the risks associated with the recommendation to transfer and invest with Strand
Capital Ltd. Had she left her personal pension where it was, it wouldve provided a
top up as and when needed to the benefits provided by her occupational pension
scheme.
The returns it was suggested the transfer and investment with Strand Capital Ltd
would provide were highly persuasive but unachievable. And the higher costs would
erode Mrs Es pension fund. Given her small pension fund, she shouldnt have been
advised to transfer.
The investigator set out how InterestMe should compensate Mrs E.
InterestMe didnt have any further comments and said it accepted the position. Mrs E was
also in agreement with the investigators findings.
InterestMe undertook some calculations and made an offer of £5,001.08 in settlement
(payment of which would be made net of an allowance for tax) of Mrs Es complaint. It
provided a copy of its calculations. Mrs Es representative said the offer hadnt been
calculated in accordance with the redress methodology the investigator had set out.
As the complaint wasnt settled, its been referred to me to decide. InterestMe said it may 
want to comment further. We allowed further time but we havent received anything more.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings and his reasons for upholding the
complaint. 
I share his views which Ive summarised above as to why the advice to transfer and invest 
via a DFM wasnt suitable for Mrs E. In brief, I dont think she had any need for a SIPP or a 
DFM. Her pension fund was modest which meant the higher costs of the new SIPP and the 
DFM were disproportionately high. The assessment of her attitude to risk as medium to 
higher wasnt credible. The illustrated returns for the new arrangement werent likely to be 
achieved. There was no proper assessment of her other pension provision and switching 
exposed her to a degree of risk she didnt need to take. Mrs Es existing pension, which had 
lower charges, was suitable for her.
I also agree with what the investigator said about how InterestMe should redress Mrs E and
put her back in the position shed have been in but for the unsuitable advice. Ive borne in
mind that Strand Capital Ltd was also regulated and it might have some liability for Mrs Es
losses. But Mrs Es complaint is about InterestMe and Im only considering what liability
InterestMe has for any losses Mrs E has suffered. The arrangement with Strand Capital Ltd
as a DFM responsible for investing Mrs Es pension fund only came about because of
InterestMes recommendation that Mrs E switch her pension fund to a SIPP and invest usinga DFM. That advice was unsuitable. I think its fair and reasonable that InterestMe should be
responsible for any losses Mrs E has suffered as a result of acting on InterestMes
unsuitable advice.
Ive looked at the calculations InterestMe undertook and I agree with Mrs Es representative
that they arent in line with the methodology the investigator suggested and which Ive
adopted below. Id make the following (non exhaustive) points.
Essentially InterestMe should ascertain what Mrs Es pension fund would be worth now had
it remained with Phoenix Life and compare that with the actual value of her SIPP. As Ive
said above, my understanding is that the bulk of the transfer value (£23,313.69) was
invested with Strand Capital Limited and Mrs Es Strand Growth Portfolio only realised
£95.60. Against that background Im not sure where the current actual pension value of
£20,662.47 used by InterestMe comes from. Or why a date of 5 May 2021 has been used 
the calculation requires the value as at the date of the calculation (so an up to date, current
value) to be used.
InterestMe has also used a benchmark  the FTSE Private Investors Total Return Index. We
often use that sort of benchmark where it isnt possible to say precisely what the consumer
would otherwise have done. But here the investigator said that Mrs E shouldve been
advised to retain her existing personal pension plan with and which was suitably invested.
He specified that the actual value of Mrs Es SIPP should be compared to what her pension
fund would be worth now if it had remained with Phoenix Life. So InterestMe will need to ask
Phoenix Life to carry out some calculations and provide a notional up to date value. Mrs E
may need provide information and/or authority to InterestMe to contact Phoenix Life to
enable InterestMe to carry out the correct calculations.
And, although not directly relevant in view of the benchmark not being as required anyway, 
InterestMe seems to have made an adjustment for costs. But, where we specify a 
benchmark, our usual approach is that the benchmark return net of charges should be used..
Thats because the benchmark doesnt represent the actual return that wouldve been
received, just a broad measure of potential loss. And adjusting the benchmark return for
charges would complicate the calculation. We consider it fair that the return shouldnt be
adjusted for charges.
The offer doesnt mention the costs of any advice Mrs E has to take so that she can transfer
her pension fund to a more suitable pension arrangement. We wouldnt always make that
sort of award. Compensation for financial loss puts the consumer in the financial position
theyd be in if the advice had been suitable. But Mrs E, an inexperienced investor, remains in
an unsuitable pension vehicle and I dont think its unreasonable that she should be able
to recover the costs of taking advice as to whether she should switch into a different type of
pension arrangement and, if so, what would be suitable for her. Id add however that such
costs should be reasonable and restricted to what she should do about her SIPP which, as
far as Im aware, remains open.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs E as close as possible
to the position shed probably now be in if shed been given suitable advice. I dont think
shed have switched to a SIPP with a DFM. I think shed have retained her Phoenix Life
personal pension and it wouldve remained invested in the same investment funds as
immediately before the switch. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and
reasonable given Mrs Es circumstances and objectives.
To compensate Mrs E fairly InterestMe Financial Planning Limited should:Compare the performance of Mrs E's investment with that of the benchmark shown
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no
compensation is payable.
If theres a loss, it should be paid into Mrs Es pension plan, to increase its value by
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the
effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the compensation 
cant be paid into Mrs Es pension plan, it should be paid direct to her. But had it been 
possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Es actual or expected marginal rate
of tax at her selected retirement age. For example, if Mrs E is likely to be a basic rate
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of
tax. However, if Mrs E wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should
be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Mrs E should be paid £250 for the trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable
advice. InterestMe Financial Planning Limited should also cover the reasonable cost of any
financial advice Mrs E requires in order to transfer her pension away from Wise SIPP to a
more suitable arrangement.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mrs E in a clear, simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If InterestMe Financial Planning Limited
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that
interest, it should tell Mrs E how much its taken off. And give Mrs E a tax deduction
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if
appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start 
date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
Wise SIPP still existsPhoenix Life 
plandate of 
transferdate of 
settlementnot 
applicable
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what Mrs Es Phoenix Life plan would have been worth at the end date had it not
been transferred to the Wise SIPP.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from the fairvalue at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from
that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, all
those payments can be totalled and that figure deducted at the end instead of deducting
periodically.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Es complaint. InterestMe Financial Planning Limited must redress Mrs E as
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman