DRN-4060834
The complaint
Mr B complains about what happened when he wasnt able to pay the product fee for his 
new mortgage deal with Santander UK Plc. Mr B said Santander didnt make an effort to get 
in touch with him. He says it was unfair for Santander to just let his mortgage offer lapse.
What happened
Mr B said he knew mortgage rates were rising, and was aware of the importance of securing 
a new fixed rate deal on his mortgage. He has shown us that he applied for a new mortgage 
online, with Santander, and received documentation in the post to sign. Mr B said he signed 
and returned this in mid-June, but he wasnt able to pay the requested product fee by 
cheque, because he no longer has a chequebook.  He told us he tried to call Santander 
before returning the form, but he wasnt able to wait until the call was connected.
Mr B said he didnt hear anything back from Santander, so he said he had no reason to think 
his mortgage deal hadnt been applied. It hadnt, but he told us he didnt notice, because he 
had enough money in his current account to make higher than expected payments. He only 
realised when Santander wrote to tell him the standard variable rate (SVR) was going up. 
Mr B said Santander should have rung or emailed him to discuss a different payment 
method, but instead of making sure it got in touch with him, it had just let his mortgage offer 
lapse. Mr B said that wasnt fair. Mr B said he rang when he found this out, but no one could 
help. He went into a branch, but again, no one would resolve this for him. 
Mr B said hed wanted Santander to send a redemption statement with his complaint 
response. It had agreed to that, but hadnt done so. And he said Santander takes around a 
week to actually put any correspondence in the post, which he said was also unfair. 
Santander said Mr B had chosen to apply for his mortgage in this way. He didnt have to pay 
by cheque, he could have applied electronically, receiving documents by email and paying 
online. Or he could have added the fee to his mortgage. Santander said it could see Mr B 
had written a note on the form accepting the mortgage offer, saying he couldnt send a 
cheque. But it had no record that Mr B had got in touch with it after this, to discuss how this 
fee would be paid.
Santander said it had written to Mr B to say it had received the signed form, but would need 
the product fee to go ahead. And the letter said if Mr B didnt get in touch, the offer would 
lapse in 14 days. Mr B didnt get in touch, so Santander said it wrote on 4 July to tell him his 
old mortgage deal had ended, and he was moving on to the SVR.
Santander said Mr B got in touch on 22 September 2022. Hed just realised he hadnt got the 
new mortgage deal, although his payments had been considerably higher in August and 
September. Santander said the reason Mr B hadnt got the deal he wanted was just because 
he hadnt paid the fee. It didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr B said if Santander had written to him, then he didnt get that letter. And he said he got all 
Santanders other correspondence. Mr B said Santander also ought to know that he always 
replies to its correspondence, so he felt it should have made contact with him, to be sure he 
was aware of its letter, and to ask again for payment. Mr B said Santander should have just 
rung or emailed with an alternative way to make payment, then all of this could have been 
avoided. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Santander had told us 
the mortgage switching process could have been done entirely online, emailed to Mr B, who 
could have accepted and paid the fee online. Mr B chose to do this by post. 
Our investigator said after Mr B returned the signed form, it appeared he had assumed the 
change had been processed, although he hadnt paid the fee. Our investigator felt Mr B 
needed to try more than the one call he had attempted, to pay the fee over the phone. He 
said Santander cant add a product fee to a mortgage without the customers consent, so 
there was no way for Santander to process the application. 
Our investigator said Santander had written to Mr B about the missing fee, and made clear 
that if it didnt get a reply, it would assume he no longer wished to proceed. Our investigator 
noted that Mr B said he didnt get this letter, but our investigator thought it was sent, and it 
wouldnt be Santanders fault if it didnt arrive. With no reply, Mr Bs offer then lapsed. 
Our investigator said there was no evidence Santander had made a mistake. He understood 
Mr B felt it wasnt fair and reasonable for Santander not to make more effort to contact him 
about the missing fee, but our investigator said that wasnt a mistake by Santander, its the 
process Santander goes through for mortgage switching. We cant ask Santander to change 
that. 
Mr B replied to say that he didnt think that we were taking a fair and reasonable approach. 
He said our investigators view could not be any less fair or reasonable. Mr B wanted an 
ombudsman to consider his complaint, so this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr B chose to switch his mortgage deal through a paper-based process, and to pay the 
product fee for the product he had chosen upfront. He received the paperwork for this. 
Although Mr B has complained that Santander takes around a week to actually issue its 
correspondence, I dont think that has affected the outcome of this case. So I dont think 
Santander has to do anything to make up for that.
The paperwork Mr B received asked him to send the signed forms, and a cheque to pay the 
fee. But then, like many people nowadays, he realised he no longer had a chequebook. Mr B 
wrote a note to this effect on his form, and returned it. 
Mr B says it is grossly unfair that Santander didnt make more of an effort to get in touch with 
him about this. Like our investigator, I think it did write to him. And this letter, whilst it still 
asked Mr B to pay by cheque, also said he could call Santander if he had any questions. Santander has said it would have been happy to take payment over the phone, if Mr B had 
spoken to it. 
I know Mr B says he never got this letter. I dont think thats Santanders fault. Mr B says it 
isnt his fault either, and he feels hes worse off, because a letter wasnt delivered. I 
understand thats unfortunate, if this letter didnt arrive, but I dont think it was the only 
opportunity to avoid what went wrong here. 
Mr B told us he rang Santander once, and didnt manage to get through. He didnt call back. 
So he never spoke to anyone about paying the fee for his mortgage. And the note he 
attached to his form said -
Please note  I do not have a cheque book to pay product fee! Called 0800 783 
9738 but could not get an answer.
Theres no offer to make payment here, no request that Santander contact Mr B, and no 
agreement to the product fee being included in the mortgage. Mr B has stressed that hes 
very familiar with the mortgage renewal process, so Im sure hell understand that Santander 
wasnt able to simply add his product fee to the mortgage without his agreement. And 
Santander didnt ignore Mr Bs contact with it. It wrote to him, to ask him to pay the 
outstanding fee, and offering a way to get in touch if he had any questions about that. 
Mr B says this wasnt a sufficient effort on behalf of Santander, and it ought to have tried 
harder to contact him. Im sorry to have to tell him that I just dont agree. I think that, in a 
situation where Mr B has been given a choice of ways to pay a fee, he has chosen one 
particular method  payment by cheque  then finds he cannot make payment in this way, 
the onus is on him to contact Santander, to make a different arrangement. And I think its 
because Mr B didnt do so, that his mortgage switch wasnt actioned. 
Mr B also said Santander agreed to send him a redemption statement with his complaint 
response letter, but didnt do so. It doesnt appear that Santander has accepted this, as its 
final response letter says As discussed, if you would like to redeem the mortgage you would 
need to contact the redemptions department Redemption statements do need to be 
produced close to the time of any planned redemption, so I dont think it would be 
unreasonable for Santander to indicate Mr B should contact the relevant team, for an up to 
date statement, once hes ready to redeem.
I know that Mr B will be disappointed, but I dont think Santander has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this case. And that means Mr Bs complaint wont be upheld. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman