DRN-3091322
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to deal with the refund of some 
pension contributions, and the provision of information about the value of her pension 
savings, in a timely manner. As a result, she says, her pension savings became liable to a 
market value reduction (MVR) charge being applied.
What happened
Mrs W held pension savings with Scottish Widows within a pension plan that she opened in 
February 1993. In 2007 Mrs W emigrated to Australia but continued making contributions to 
her pension savings. Scottish Widows accepts that, when it was informed of Mrs Ws change 
of residence, it failed to add an appropriate overseas marker to its records.
In October 2019 Scottish Widows failed to collect Mrs Ws normal monthly premium by direct 
debit. Mrs W noticed that the premium hadnt been paid and contacted the firm. 
Scottish Widows advised Mrs W that the premium hadnt been collected as a result of its 
error. But as part of those discussions Mrs W advised Scottish Widows that she was 
intending to transfer her pension savings to an Australian pension scheme during the 
following six months.
Scottish Widows sought further clarification from Mrs W about when her residence had 
changed. At that time it informed her that she was only entitled to make pension 
contributions, and receive tax relief, for a period of five years after her emigration. So it told 
Mrs W that it would need to refund the contributions she had made after that time, and return 
the tax relief she had received to HMRC. It appears the payment of that refund was delayed 
by some processing problems, and didnt complete until 11 December 2019.
On 23 January 2020, Scottish Widows received a letter of authority from Mrs W that 
supported a request from an independent financial advisor, asking for details of her pension 
savings. Around a week later that financial advisor asked Scottish Widows to disregard its 
earlier request, and said the valuation statement was no longer required.
A new financial advisor then provided Scottish Widows with a letter of authority from Mrs W 
to support its request for valuation details of her pension savings. It said it required that 
information to evaluate a possible transfer to an HMRC registered UK SIPP. After being 
chased by the advisor firm, and facing some other systems problems, Scottish Widows 
provided the valuation information on 21 February. And in that letter it confirmed that a 
market value reduction would not apply once a policyholder reached 60 years of age.
On 20 March 2020, following a period of market volatility at the start of the coronavirus 
pandemic, Scottish Widows announced that it would apply a market value reduction to any 
investments being transferred or encashed from its with profits fund. That was the fund that 
held Mrs Ws pension savings. Mrs W says that, as a result of the MVR being applied, the 
transfer value of her pension savings fell by approximately £32,700.
On 23 March, the financial advisor firm asked for some further information. It asked for a 
valuation backdated to the point at which Mrs W moved abroad. And it asked 
Scottish Widows to provide the paperwork that would be needed for a transfer of Mrs Ws 
pension savings to an overseas pension scheme. Scottish Widows didnt provide that 
information until 15 May.
In June 2020 Mrs W complained to Scottish Widows about the delays she and her 
financial advisor had faced in getting information about her pension savings. She said that, 
but for those delays, her transfer would have been completed before the MVR was applied. 
Scottish Widows didnt agree with that complaint. It accepted that it had failed to deal with 
Mrs Ws enquiries in a timely manner. But it noted that Mrs W had originally said, in 
November 2019, that it was her intention to move her pension savings in around six months. 
So it thought that the MVR would have applied regardless. But, in recognition of the trouble 
and upset the information delays would have caused Mrs W, it offered her £225 in 
compensation.
Mrs W didnt accept that offer so she brought her complaint to this Service. The complaint 
has been assessed by one of our investigators. Her assessment supported the conclusion 
reached by Scottish Widows that the transfer was likely to have been completed after the 
MVR had been applied even if there had been no delays in providing the information to 
Mrs Ws financial advisor. And she thought that the compensation Scottish Widows had 
offered to Mrs W in recognition of those delays was fair. And later, the investigator noted that 
Mrs W had actually completed the transfer of her pension savings to the overseas scheme, 
without a MVR being applied  by the time of the actual transfer in April 2021, the MVR was 
no longer applicable. So she didnt think Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld.
Mrs W didnt agree with that assessment. She said that it wasnt possible for her to start the 
transfer process until the ineligible contributions had been refunded and a new valuation 
provided. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs W and by Scottish Widows. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
It seems to me that much of the basic timeline underpinning this complaint is agreed upon by 
both parties. And Scottish Widows has accepted that at times, its administrative activities 
and its provision of information to Mrs W and her financial advisor, fell short of what it would 
normally expect. Whilst Scottish Widows has provided what appear to be plausible reasons 
for those delays, I dont think those reasons mean that Mrs W should be disadvantaged 
because of them.So what I need to decide on this complaint is whether, without those delays, Mrs Ws 
transfer was likely to have been completed before the MVR was applied on 20 March.
But I think there are a couple of issues that I should provide some commentary on first. 
Mrs W moved overseas in 2007. The relevant legislation only allows her to make pension 
contributions, and receive tax relief, for a period of five years after that time. So 
Scottish Widows should have stopped accepting Mrs Ws contributions around 2013. But 
although it is clear Scottish Widows failed to refuse those contributions, I dont think it holds 
the entirety of the blame. I think that Mrs W also had a responsibility to stop making the 
pension contributions when her entitlement to tax relief had ended. Although 
Scottish Widows failure to correctly record her overseas residence meant that it didnt 
explicitly make Mrs W aware she could no longer make her contributions, that information 
would also have been available to Mrs W from other sources.
A MVR is applied from time to time to ensure that any monies being withdrawn from a fund 
reflect the policyholders fair share of the underlying assets. And that would mean that, 
particularly at time of market volatility, any withdrawals do not place an unfair burden on the 
assets of the other investors. By its nature, a MVR cannot be announced in advance  to do 
so would negate the whole purpose of its introduction. So it can be disappointing for 
investors, when approaching the point of transferring or liquidating their investments, to find 
a MVR has been applied and the value of their transfer has fallen overnight.
I have thought carefully about what sat behind the timing of Mrs Ws decision to move her 
pension savings to the overseas scheme. She has explained to us that limits were in place 
that restricted the amount that could be transferred within a single tax year. And I understand 
that the tax year ends on 30 June each year. So Mrs W has explained that her intention 
would have been for part of her pension savings to be transferred before the end of June, 
with the remainder in early July. And those dates appear to align with the information Mrs W 
gave to Scottish Widows in November 2019, when she said that she anticipated making the 
transfer within the following six months.
I think it would be reasonable to conclude that Mrs W wasnt expecting there to be any great 
time pressure on making her transfer in the latter stages of 2019, or in early 2020. It was 
only later in 2020, when the effects of the coronavirus pandemic spread across the world 
that the timing of the transfer became so important. And in fact, it was only retrospectively, 
after the MVR was applied on 20 March, that the differences caused by the timing could be 
seen.
I havent seen anything that persuades me that Mrs W was pressing for a transfer to be 
completed before March 2020. In fact it seems to me that the only real deadline that she was 
actively looking to meet was to ensure that her funds had been transferred before the end of 
the tax year in June 2020. And Im not persuaded that the delays that Scottish Widows 
caused would have been of any great concern to Mrs W had the MVR not been applied.
It is entirely possible that, without any delays caused by Scottish Widows, Mrs Ws transfer 
could have been completed before 20 March. But I think it at least as likely that, although the 
transfer could have been completed by that time, Mrs W wouldnt have pushed sufficiently to 
meet that earlier timescale. Although I accept that some of the delays fell over the Christmas 
period, there was a lengthy period of time between Scottish Widows correcting Mrs Ws 
contribution history and a transfer valuation being requested by her financial advisor. So I dont think I can reasonably extrapolate what might have happened from a simple 
recalculation of what should have happened. I think there are far too many variables for me 
to conclude that things would have progressed within the same timescales but simply 
excluding Scottish Widows processing delays. So Im not reasonably able to conclude that, 
without any delays caused by Scottish Widows, Mrs Ws transfer request would have been 
completed before the MVR was applied.
Ive thought carefully about what Scottish Widows has already offered in recognition of the 
inconvenience Mrs W was caused by its delays. As I said earlier, I dont think 
Scottish Widows is wholly responsible for the ineligible contributions being collected over a 
number of years. So it follows that I dont think it is entirely responsible for the problems and 
delays whilst those contributions were refunded. As our investigator has explained to Mrs W, 
the awards we might consider appropriate do not measure, in terms of pounds and pence, 
the costs of making a complaint. Here, I think the £225 that Scottish Widows has already 
offered to Mrs W is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate her for the delays that 
occurred. I understand that offer remains open to her, and so Mrs W should contact 
Scottish Widows if she now wishes to accept it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman