DRN-4330858
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DG) 
under a protection policy for his TV.
References to DG include their agents who administer policies and carry out services under 
policies.
This decision covers Mr Ss complaint against DG as the insurer of his protection policy for 
his TV. It doesnt cover the provider of his TV service, a separate business.
What happened
Mr S had a protection policy with DG that covered breakdown and repairs to his TV. In April 
2023 the TV became faulty (the screen stopped working). After inspection by an engineer 
DG deemed it to be unusable, as a replacement screen was obsolete. Under the terms of 
the policy Mr S was offered several alternative replacement TVs, one of which would 
normally have incurred a £400 upgrade fee, which DG agreed to waive.. However Mr S said 
none of them met his requirements as they lacked what he considered to be essential 
features, including the sound system, internal hard drive and screen refresh rate. The 
features were of great significance to Mr S. 
Mr S looked at the available options from DG, concluding there was a suitable replacement 
model which had the features he wanted. However, if he chose the model, hed have to pay 
an upgrade fee of £1,050. Mr S thought this unreasonable. As he didnt think DG were 
offering him a suitable replacement (unless he paid the upgrade fee) Mr S thought DG 
should offer him a voucher or a cash settlement.
Unhappy at the replacement offered not including the features he wanted (unless he paid the 
upgrade fee) Mr S complained to DG.
DG didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said theyd reviewed the 
specification of Mr Ss TV against the model theyd offered as a replacement, concluding it 
was  a reasonable offer as it matched the specification and features Mr S had asked for. The 
replacement model had no upgrade cost and was available to order. DG referred to policy 
terms and conditions, which stated they would aim to replace a TV with one of the same or 
similar specification. In making their offer, DG believed they had done so. DG also referred 
to the model Mr S had asked for as a replacement, which had an upgrade cost of £1,050. 
DG said that after reviewing the model, theyd concluded it was a significant upgrade to Mr 
Ss previous TV. But if he wanted to order the upgraded model as a replacement, he could 
do so at the upgrade cost DG had quoted.
DG also said the policy was a replacement plan  vouchers would only be offered if the 
replacement was incorrect. If vouchers werent available, DG would offer a cash settlement. 
But as DG thought the replacement model offered was correct, they wouldnt offer vouchers 
or a cash settlement. DG referred to the relevant policy terms and conditions.
Unhappy at DGs final response, Mr S complained to this service. He said the replacement 
model offered didnt include the features he wanted, and it was unreasonable hed have to 
pay an upgrade fee for the model he considered had those features. He also thought it 
unreasonable DG wouldnt offer him a cash alternative  even though the terms of the policy 
explicitly provided for this. Because he didnt think DG had offered a suitable replacement, 
he was without a means of watching TV. Having a significant disability meant he was at 
home, so the delays in providing a suitable TV with what he considered essential features 
was causing him significant distress as he wasnt able to watch content. Mr S wanted DG to 
provide a replacement model he considered equivalent to his TV, or a cash settlement.
Our investigator issued an initial view in which they didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought DG had acted fairly in offering a replacement TV with a similar 
specification to Mr Ss TV (and waiving what would normally be a £400 upgrade fee). The 
replacement model requested by Mr S would be a significant upgrade on his TV, so it would 
be unreasonable for DG to waive the £1,050 upgrade fee. As Mr S had access to at least 
one other TV, the investigator also thought he had access to watching TV.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators initial view, raising several points. First, hed made DG 
aware of his disability and his TV service provider had recorded his disability. Secondly, as 
hed rejected the upgraded replacement, he should be entitled to a cash settlement (if the 
voucher that might be offered was for a retailer that didnt stock a replacement TV with 
similar features). Thirdly, he provided a comparison of the features of the replacement TV 
offered, which he said showed it didnt include the features he required. Fourthly, Mr S said 
he relied on having a TV in each room for entertainment and social connections. The 
absence of a replacement TV for the one that was faulty had a negative impact on his 
emotional wellbeing.
Our investigator considered the points raised by Mr S and issued a second view. The 
investigator noted Mr S had made his TV service provider aware of his disability. But this 
didnt mean DG automatically were aware  they said they werent. On the second point, the 
investigator maintained their view DG had offered a replacement TV with a similar 
specification, in line with the policy terms and conditions. And theyd waived the £400 
upgrade fee, which the investigator thought fair. As theyd offered a replacement model with 
a similar specification, they were obliged to offer a voucher or cash settlement. DG were also 
not bound to accept the replacement TV model requested by Mr S (and waive the £1,050 
upgrade fee). On the model specifications provided by Mr S, the investigator thought the 
replacement model offered was very close in specification, which the investigator thought 
fair. The investigator acknowledged the impact not having his TV had on Mr S, but as he 
thought DG had acted fairly in offering a replacement model with a similar specification, they 
hadnt acted against the policy terms and conditions. So, the investigator maintained their 
view not to uphold the complaint.
Following the investigators second view, to resolve the complaint, DG offered a cash 
settlement (£649) based on the retail price at a major retailer of the replacement model 
theyd offered to Mr S. Mr S initially accepted DGs offer, but only if theyd also pay £100 
compensation for the distress the situation had caused him. DG said they wouldnt agree to 
pay compensation in addition to their cash settlement offer. 
Mr S then requested an Ombudsman review the complaint, saying he wanted the previously 
waived £400 upgrade fee for the replacement model offered in addition to the £649 cash 
settlement offer (a total of £1,049) in addition to £100 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Id first want to acknowledge what Mr S has told us about his significant disability and the 
impact it has on him. I recognise the importance of his being able to view content through a 
TV with what he considers essential features. Ive borne this in mind when deciding, as is my 
role here, whether DG have acted fairly towards Mr S.
The main issue in Mr Ss complaint is whether DG have offered a reasonable replacement 
TV with the features he wants. Mr S says its unreasonable for DG to ask him to pay an 
upgrade fee for a replacement he considers equivalent to his TV. He also says its 
unreasonable not to offer him a voucher or cash settlement. DG say the replacement TV 
offered is a reasonable replacement for Mr Ss TV, in accordance with the policy terms and 
conditions. As theyve offered a reasonable replacement, they wouldnt offer a voucher or 
cash settlement as an alternative.
Ive noted the position now reached in this complaint is that DG have offered a cash 
settlement based on the retail price of the replacement model theyve offered. Mr S says he 
would be prepared to accept a cash settlement of £1,049 (the £649 offered plus the £400 
previously waived upgrade fee) and £100 in compensation for the distress hes suffered. So, 
this is the issue Ive considered in deciding whether DG have acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr S.
The first issue Ive considered is whether DG have acted in line with the policy terms and 
conditions in offering the replacement model on which their cash settlement offer is based. 
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions concerning replacements referred to by DG in 
their final response. The relevant term is as follows (DG emphasis):
6. Replacements
Any replacement item provided will be (at our discretion) one of the following: new; 
remanufactured or refurbished. All replacements will come with a 12 month 
manufacturers or suppliers guarantee for parts and labour. All replacements will 
be of the same or similar make and technical specification as your original 
Covered Device. We cannot guarantee that a replacement will be the same 
make, model or colour as your original Covered Device.
I think this makes it clear a replacement model offered will be the same or similar (my 
emphasis) specification as the TV covered. Given TV models are regularly updated or 
replaced 9often annually) then its likely any replacement model wont have exactly the same 
features and specification.
Ive then looked at the respective specifications of the original TV and the replacement 
model offered by DG, including the comparisons provided by Mr S and by DG. Having done 
so, in my view, the replacement model offered by DG is of a similar make (the same 
manufacturer) and specification (looking at the features of both). So, Ive concluded DG 
acted fairly and reasonably in offering a replacement model in line with the above policy 
terms and conditions.
As DG have now offered a cash settlement, the original complaint issue about them not 
offering a voucher or cash settlement becomes moot. However, Ive noted the policy term 
referred to by DG in their final response is as follows:
a. Replacements for Viewing Devices:
If we cannot source a replacement of similar make and specification (as it is no 
longer available) we may offer you an upgrade (if this is offered), we will 
provide you with a voucher instead. The voucher will be for the full retail price 
(from a retailer chosen by us) of a replacement item of the same or similar make and technical specification. The voucher will also pay for delivery. All vouchers will be 
valid for 12 months from the date of issue. The voucher will be sent either by SMS to 
your phone or to the last postal address you gave us. If vouchers are not available 
we will provide a cash equivalent.
As I think DG have offered a replacement model of similar make and specification, then the 
above policy term means they wouldnt have been obliged to offer either a voucher or cash 
settlement. So, their original decision and position was fair and reasonable. Ive covered this 
issue as its relevant to my deciding whether, overall, DG have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive then considered whether DG have acted fairly and 
reasonably in offering a cash settlement based on the retail price of the replacement model 
theyve offered. DG have showed an extract of the model on a major retailer website, 
indicating a retail price of £649. Ive searched for the model and confirmed this is a 
reasonable price  there are other retailers offering it for less. So, Ive concluded DG have 
acted fairly and reasonably. 
Assuming they havent paid the sum, I think DG should settle Mr Ss claim by payment of the 
cash settlement theyve offered (£649).
And because theyve offered a cash settlement based on the retail price, thats the price Mr 
S can expect to pay (or less) for the TV. So, I dont agree with Mr Ss request that DG add 
the previously waived upgrade fee (£400) to the cash settlement offer.
Ive also considered the other points made by Mr S. First, that not having access to his TV 
meant he wasnt able to view content. However, Ive noted Mr Ss comment that he has a TV 
in each room of his property. While I recognise the impact of his disability and why he has a 
TV in each room, I cant see that the absence of the TV covered by his policy means hes 
unable to watch TV or access content. And as Ive concluded DG have acted fairly in their 
original offer of a replacement model (and their subsequent offer of a cash settlement) then I 
dont think this issue affects my conclusions.
Given my conclusion that, overall, DG have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr S, then I 
dont think I can reasonably require them to pay compensation to Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I require Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc to:
Settle Mr Ss claim by payment of the cash settlement theyve offered (£649).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman