DRN-2330055
The complaint
Mr J complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined a claim 
under his pet insurance.
What happened
Mr J has pet insurance policy with Red Sands to cover treatment provided to his cat, who Ill 
call M.
Very sadly, M developed a soft tissue sarcoma. And Mr M made a claim to cover treatment 
which cost almost £2,800.
Red Sands declined the claim. They say the policy doesnt cover treatment relating to 
vaccination or treatment for conditions arising from vaccination. 
They pointed out the clinical notes indicated M was suffering from injection site sarcoma  
and a history of vaccinations at that site on Ms body.
Mr J made a complaint to Red Sands. And when they didnt uphold it, he brought his 
complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Red Sands had done anything 
wrong.
Mr J disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Js policy say that cover is excluded for:
Costs for or related to. preventative treatment recommended by a vet to prevent 
an injury or illness for whatever reason (including vaccination). 
Mr J says that any normal reading of this exclusion would lead the reader to believe that Red 
Sands wouldnt pay for vaccinations. He thinks the term or related to doesnt clearly and 
unambiguously imply that treatment for conditions which may be caused by vaccination 
wouldnt be covered.
I think Mr J may have a point, when I look at that clause in isolation, but I think the policy 
summary document provided by Red Sands is less ambiguous or open to different 
interpretations.
This says the policy doesnt cover:
Costs for. preventative treatments, vaccinations and any claims as a result of 
any of these procedures.
So, Im satisfied theres a clear and prominent statement in the documents provided to Mr J 
when he bought the policy, to say Red Sands arent going to cover claims for treatment of 
conditions resulting from vaccination.
That being the case, the remaining question is whether the sarcoma is in fact an injection 
site sarcoma  whether, in essence, the sarcoma was caused by the vaccination(s) M was 
given. And whether, therefore, its fair for Red Sands to decline the claim on that basis.
There are more than a dozen documents weve seen in which a vet (or two vets) refer to Ms 
condition as suspected injection site sarcoma. These include referrals from Mr Js 
veterinary practice to the animal hospital M attended, letters providing feedback from the 
hospital to the referring vet, discharge instructions, clinical histories and other reports.
Those documents were written, approved and/or signed by seven different vets.
Some of these documents were submitted as part of the claim to Red Sands. And theyre 
what Red Sands took into account when making a decision about the claim.
Theres a letter from one of those seven vets, provided at Mr Js request, which says:
based on the evidence available, we do not have a definitive diagnosis of an 
injection site sarcoma.
It goes on to say that sarcomas can be caused by a number of different factors.
I note that the letter says there cant be a definitive diagnosis. Its very difficult to see how 
there could ever be a definitive diagnosis of the cause of a sarcoma in this kind of case. And 
I think the vet in question leaves open the possibility that its very likely the causal factor is 
vaccination(s).
We also have several other documents  and several other vets  wiling to sign up to the 
diagnosis of a suspected injection site sarcoma.
Mr J says he thinks Red Sands would need to conclusively prove the cause of the sarcoma 
was vaccination(s) in order to decline his claim. 
I dont think thats quite true. What Im looking at is whether, based on the evidence they 
have, its reasonable for Red Sands to conclude this is an injection site sarcoma. 
Given the weight of evidence which points in that direction - bearing in mind all of the clinical 
letters and notes signed by a number of different vets - I cant conclude that Red Sands have 
acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably in their consideration of Mr Js claim. 
I note that Red Sands have  quite reasonably  said that theyll take any new evidence in to 
account if any should emerge which casts doubt on their conclusions at this stage.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman