DRN-1666976
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Canada Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg) mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mr A. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001. Canada Square sold Mr A 
the policy when he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Mr A says he thinks the PPI was sold to him by phone. But Canada Square has sent 
evidence from his computer that the PPI was sold by internet, and I think thats probably 
right.  This did all happen about 19 years ago, and so it wouldnt be surprising fi Mr A didnt 
remember all the details.
Ive considered what Mr A has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain 
why:
I think Canada Square made Mr A aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose 
to take it. However, there is evidence that the online process at the time presented 
PPI as a choice, and you had to actively tick the box on the website for PPI to start. 
Mr A recalls being pressured into taking the PPI. But, as it seems the PPI was taken 
out by internet, I dont think Canada Square could have put pressure on him in the 
way Mr A remembers.  
Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mr As 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. 
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But I dont think full information about costs and benefits 
would have affected whether Mr A took the PPI. I say this because, in his 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful. It would 
have potentially paid out for longer than his employer sick pay lasted, and would 
have put off the time he would need to fall back on any savings or other resources. 
Mr A says he was made redundant the year after the PPI started, and he didnt know 
he had PPI and so didnt claim. I accept this supports what he says about not being 
aware of the PPI later on, but I do think its possible he forgot he had ticked the box to take PPI. Mr A might still be able to make a backdated claim for his period of 
unemployment if he asks the insurer. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman