DRN-4171508
The complaint
Mr G says East End Fair Finance Limited, trading as Fair Finance, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Fair Finance approved two loans for Mr G. The first was in November 2019 for £500
to be repaid over 14 months at £58 a month. The second was in July 2021 for £220 to be
repaid over seven months at £40 a month.
Mr G says he should never have been given the loans. He was stuck in a payday loan cycle,
borrowing more to repay existing debt. Fair Finance said that it asked Mr G about his
income and expenses when he applied for each loan, and it checked his credit file. It found
he had enough disposable income to afford both loans.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She said Fair Finances checks were
proportionate and she found it was fair to have given loan 1. However at the time of loan 2
she felt the checks showed it was clear Mr G was in a cycle of borrowing and so Fair
Finance should not have further extended Mr Gs indebtedness.
Mr G didnt agree with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said, in
summary, better checks would have showed he could not afford loan 1 either. He was
spending almost half of his income at the time on payday loan repayments, and most of the
money he borrowed was being spent on gambling. He was struggling financially.
Fair Finance did not respond to the investigators assessment.
I reached a different conclusion to the investigator so I issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send any 
comments by 2 June 2023.
Extract from my provisional decision
Fair Finance said that when Mr G applied for his loans it asked him about his income and
non-discretionary expenses. It confirmed his income by checking his bank statements, and a
pay slip for loan 1. It checked his credit file to understand his existing credit commitments
and how he had managed his credit historically. Based on all the information it gathered it
calculated that at the time of loan 1 he had £905 monthly disposable income and at the time
of loan 2 £665 and so concluded he could afford both loans.
I think the checks Fair Finance carried out were proportionate given the value and term of
the lending, and the value of the monthly repayments relative to Mr Gs income. However I
am not currently persuaded it made fair lending decisions based on the information it
gathered. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
Fair Finance had copies of Mr Gs bank statements and has told us it used these to check
his declared income. But I would also have expected it to respond to the other information
that the statements gave it access to. I cant see that it did.
The statements show in the months prior to this loan application Mr G was persistently
reliant on his overdraft; that he had taken out eight payday loans (often withdrawing close to
the full value in cash immediately); and was incurring daily overdraft fees. The statements 
clearly showed Mr G was having problems managing his money, and in no way supported 
Fair Finances assessment that he had £905 disposable income each month.
As this was information Fair Finance collected as part of its checks, it needed to have due
regard to what it showed. Based on what it knew, I do not think it was reasonable for it to
conclude Mr G would be able to sustainably repay this loan. It ought to have realised there
was a high risk Mr G would have to borrow to repay, or suffer some other financial harm.
It also seems inconsistent to me that Mr G would opt to borrow £500 if he had surplus
income of £905 each month, as Fair Finance calculated  and the lender ought to have
considered this.
It follows I think Fair Finance was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr G.
Loan 2
Fair Finance would have needed to see that Mr Gs finances had stabilised before
considering lending to Mr G given what it had learnt at the time of loan 1. I cannot see it has
evidenced this was the case. From the information it gathered, it could see Mr G was still
reliant on his overdraft facility and was still using short-term high-cost credit, so it was clear
his finances remained under pressure. His income had fallen quite significantly. And as with
loan 1 it was illogical that Mr G would want to borrow £220 if he had surplus income of
£665.50 each month, as Fair Finance calculated  and again the lender ought to have
considered this.
It follows I think Fair Finance was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr G.
I then set out what Fair Finance would need to do to put things right.
Mr G did not respond to the provisional decision. Fair Finance said it had no further points to 
make specific to this case, but asked for an explanation as to why this service often 
concludes that it is concerning if an applicant asks for a loan thats lower than their monthly 
disposable income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in
its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Fair Finance, need to abide
by. Fair Finance will be aware of these. Our approach to this type of lending is set out on
our website, and I have followed it here.
Neither party sent in new information or challenged the findings or outcome I set out in my 
provisional decision so I have no reason to change my conclusion.
Fair Finance asked more generally about my finding that it seemed inconsistent that Mr G 
would opt to borrow £500 if he had surplus income of £905 each month. I can only comment here on this as relevant to the individual circumstances of this case. And I think Fair Finance 
has already pertinently said that it would perhaps be better to question why someone is 
requesting an amount less than their disposable income. That would be my point here  and 
had it done this, and proportionately checked Mr Gs response, it would most likely have 
uncovered that he was struggling financially. A mismatch between loan value and disposable 
income can signpost financial difficulties. I hope this is helpful.
It follows I find Fair Finance should not have lent to Mr G.
  
Putting things right
It is reasonable that Mr G should repay the capital he borrowed as he had the benefit of that
money. But he has paid interest and charges on two loans that should not have been given
to him. So Fair Finance will have to:
cap the amount Mr G has to repay/repaid on the loans to the capital he borrowed, in
other words £720; and
if Mr G has paid more than this then Fair Finance needs to refund these
overpayments to him along with 8% simple interest per annum* from the date of
payment to the date of settlement of this complaint. In this case Fair Finance needs
to remove any negative information about this loan from Mr Gs credit file; or
if Mr G has not yet repaid the capital, then Fair Finance needs to treat Mr G fairly and
with forbearance and due consideration regarding his outstanding capital balance.
This may mean coming to an affordable repayment plan with him. Once the capital
has been repaid, then Fair Finance should remove any negative information about
the loans from Mr Gs credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Fair Finance to take off tax from this interest. Fair Finance must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Gs complaint. East End Fair Finance Limited, trading as Fair Finance, 
must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman