DRN-4186954
The complaint
Mr T complains about information recorded on his Equifax Limited credit file. 
What happened
Mr T has a credit card with a business Ill call P. In October 2022 Mr T raised a dispute with 
P concerning a purchase made with the credit card. P went on to record a Query, or Q, 
marker on Mr Ts credit file in October 2022. 
In November 2022 Mr T contacted Equifax to raise concerns over the Q marker recorded on 
his credit file by P. Equifax raised a dispute with P but it responded to confirm the Q marker 
should remain on Mr Ts credit file. Further disputes were raised with P on Mr Ts behalf in 
December 2022 and February 2023 but it didnt provide consent for the Q marker to be 
removed. All payments from November 2022 in respect of Mr Ts credit card with P show 
they were made as normal. 
Mr T complained to Equifax but it didnt agree to remove the Q marker. Mr T referred his 
complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They were satisfied Equifax 
had sought to dispute the Q marker with P and been advised it should remain on Mr Ts 
credit file. The investigator said Equifax didnt own the information reported about Ps credit 
card and thought it had dealt with Mr Ts complaint fairly. Mr T asked to appeal and said he 
remained of the view that the Q marker was being unfairly recorded on his credit file. As 
Mr T asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr T queried the Q marker with Equifax as its recorded on his credit 
file. But as our investigator has said, Equifax isnt the organisation thats reporting the status 
of the credit card in October 2022, those details are reported by P. And Equifax has 
confirmed it cant amend information recorded by a business without permission to do so. Im 
satisfied thats the case and Equifaxs role is to accurately record the information provided by 
businesses. And I accept Equifax cant make changes to the information reported by a 
business without first receiving its consent to do so. 
When a customer contacts Equifax to dispute an entry on their credit file wed expect them to 
take that up with the reporting business. Equifax has provided evidence to show it has raised 
three different disputes with P. On each occasion P responded to confirm that the Q marker 
should remain on Mr Ts credit file for the month October 2022. So whilst I understand Mr T 
remains of the view the Q marker is incorrectly recorded and has unfairly impacted his credit 
score, Im not persuaded Equifax has made a mistake in the way its handled his enquiries 
and dispute. Ultimately, P is responsible for the information recorded on Mr Ts credit file in 
relation to the credit card he holds with it. Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but without consent 
from P to remove the Q marker, Equifax is unable to change the information reported. 
As Im satisfied Equifax has taken reasonable steps to dispute the data recorded by P on Mr 
Ts credit file and received confirmation that it cant remove the Q marker Im not telling it to 
take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Equifax Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman