DRN-3350551
The complaint
Mr Y complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) settled his claim on his 
motorhome insurance policy on a split liability basis following an accident.
What happened
Mr Y was involved in an accident with another motorhome while driving along a narrow 
country road. He made a claim on his policy, saying the accident wasnt his fault.
The third partys insurer disputed liability and, in the end, RSA settled Mr Ys claim on a 
50:50 split liability basis. Mr Y is unhappy about this. Among other things, he says dashcam 
footage shows the other motorhome was over the white line when the accident happened 
and he has an email from the police saying the third party was at fault. Hes also unhappy 
RSA stopped offering him insurance on his motorhome after the accident.
When RSA didnt uphold Mr Ys complaint, he brought it to us. The investigator who looked 
at it didnt uphold it. She thought RSAs decision was reasonable based on the information it 
had available. Our investigator also said she thought RSA was following its underwriting 
criteria when it said it couldnt insure Mr Ys motorhome going forward.
Mr Y disagrees. He says, among other things, the dashcam footage shows the third party 
driving quite fast, the accident wouldve been far worse had he also been driving over the 
white line (as the third party contended) and the third partys failure to stop was surely a 
strong indication of his guilt. So Mr Ys complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ys complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
My starting point is Mr Ys motorhome insurance policy. This says RSA has the right, if it 
chooses, in Mr Ys name but at its expense to take over the defence or settlement of his 
claim. Most motor insurance policies contain a term like this and it means an insurer 
doesnt need its policyholders agreement to settle a claim. But it must act fairly and 
reasonably in making a decision to settle, based on all the facts and evidence it has.
So my role isnt to decide who was at fault for Mr Ys accident. Its to decide if RSA acted 
fairly and reasonably in reaching its decision to settle his claim on a 50:50 split liability basis. 
To do so, Ive looked at how and why RSA reached this decision. 
I can see that, initially, RSA supported Mr Ys position. Among other things, it reviewed      
Mr Ys dashcam footage and the police email he got saying the accident wasnt his fault. 
But then the third partys insurer disputed liability. From RSAs internal claims notes, I can 
see RSA continued to push for the third-party insurer to accept full liability for the accident. 
But the third-party insurer refused to do so saying, among other things, the third party was 
also told by the police the accident wasnt his fault. 
It was at this point RSA decided the matter was not economical to litigate over due to 
damage and cost. As [the third party insurer] are offering 50/50 this would be the best 
option. In support of its decision to accept split liability, RSA says:
This is a case of two large vehicles, on a fast road which is narrow and surrounded by 
hedges. The [third party] is straddling the white line but it is a larger vehicle and  [Mr Y] 
doesnt change his road position until after the collision (before he pulls in etc.) and is also 
driving a large vehicle.
In relation to the police e-mail Mr Y got, RSA makes the point the police didnt witness the 
accident and so formed an opinion based on the same information RSA had. It says 
although police input can be helpful the police arent experts in how an insurance company 
assesses liability and what the prospects of success would be should the matter be 
litigated. RSA has also made the point the third partys failure to stop after the accident is 
not an insurance matter and the police didnt pursue the third party about this.
I know Mr Y feels strongly he wasnt at fault in any way for the accident. But, looking at 
everything Ive got, I cant say RSA acted unfairly or unreasonably in settling his claim as it 
did. RSAs actions were in line with Mr Ys policy terms and conditions and it looked at all of 
the available evidence (including both drivers descriptions of events) before it made its 
decision to settle 50:50. In Mr Ys case, the sums involved in the claim were quite small. So, 
in the end, I think RSA took the commercial decision to settle rather than contest the matter 
in court because it didnt think it was economical to litigate. 
Our investigator asked RSA if it got any legal advice to support its decision. It says it didnt 
because legal opinions can be costly and so arent viable/ economical in every case 
where theres an ongoing dispute. I dont think this was an unreasonable position for RSA to 
take in Mr Ys case (especially given the relatively small sums involved in the claim). 
Following the claim, I understand Mr Y was unable to continue to insure his motorhome with 
RSA. It has given us its underwriting criteria which show if there are two fault accident 
claims within five years it wont accept the risk. A claim settled on a 50:50 basis (with each 
insurer paying half the claim) is recorded as a fault claim, because the policyholder's 
insurer hasnt recovered all its costs. From the records RSA has shown us, this claim was 
the second claim where Mr Y had been recorded as being at fault in five years (ie where 
his insurer hadnt recovered all its costs). So I dont think RSA has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in not continuing to offer Mr Y insurance on his motorhome.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman