DRN-2120835
The complaint
Miss R says that the terms of a holiday club membership were misrepresented to her and 
her partner. She wants to cancel it. Because the membership was financed with a loan 
arranged by the seller and provided by Honeycomb Finance Limited, she says she should be 
able to cancel the loan agreement too.  
What happened
In March 2019 Miss R and her partner bought a trial holiday club membership from a 
company which Ill call C. The membership cost £4,395, which was paid for with a loan 
provided to Miss A by Honeycomb and arranged by C. 
The membership was to be for three years, ending on 8 March 2022. The membership 
agreement said that it could be cancelled within 14 days of 8 March 2019. 
In addition to the membership agreement, Miss R and her partner signed a 17-point 
Members Declaration. Miss A initialled each point. Those 17 points included:
They had the right to reserve holiday accommodation for up to five weeks to be used 
within 36 months of the agreement (point 2). 
Membership is not transferable or renewable (point 9).
If they traded in their membership they would be entitled to trade in the value equal to 
the amount paid, less 20% for each week used (point 11).
The membership agreement, declaration and promotion were the entire agreement 
between the parties and that anything additional would only be valid if signed and 
stamped by C (point 15). 
Miss R and her partner later agreed to purchase full membership. The full membership terms 
also allowed them to cancel within a certain period, which they did. They believed they could 
also cancel the trial membership, but C said that the 14-day cancellation period had passed; 
it would not accept cancellation of the trial membership. 
Miss R complained to Honeycomb, as the provider of the finance used to purchase the trial 
membership. Honeycomb noted however that the terms of the membership agreement were 
clear and that Miss R had signed the declaration indicating that she agreed to them. Miss R 
referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered her complaint. He 
broadly agreed with Honeycomb that the membership documents were clear. Miss R 
remains able to use the membership. 
He noted as well that Miss R had said that the loan was not affordable but said that he 
thought Honeycomb had carried out proportionate checks before making it available.  
Miss R did not accept the investigators preliminary view of the complaint and asked that an 
ombudsman review it. She noted that C had recently said that it was extending by six 
months the time she and her partner had to use the five weeks of the trial membership. She 
says it should not change the contract unilaterally. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, where a customer, who 
pays a supplier for goods or services with a loan provided under arrangements between the 
lender and the supplier, has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against that 
supplier, they have a like claim against the lender. Financial limits apply, but I dont need to 
discuss those here. I am satisfied that, if Miss R has a claim in respect of the trial 
membership against C, she can bring a similar claim against Honeycomb. 
To clarify, however, Miss Rs complaint against Honeycomb is not that it misrepresented the 
contract with C. Rather, it is that Honeycomb did not respond fairly to Mr and Mrs Ns claim 
under section 75.
Cs response to Miss Rs request to cancel the membership had been to explain that the 
cancellation period had passed and to refer to the membership documents which set out the 
terms of membership. I believe they did make it clear that the membership could be 
cancelled within 14 days, but not later than that.
That is not the end of the matter, however. Miss R says that the terms of the membership 
were misrepresented by C. In legal terms a misrepresentation is a statement of fact or law 
made by one party to a contract which induces the other into entering into the contract. In 
this case, however, there were quite detailed terms of membership which Miss R and her 
partner signed. They covered the concerns which Miss R has raised  in particular the 
circumstances in which cancellation was allowed. 
The declaration also included (at point 15) a statement that the written documents 
constituted the entire agreement between the parties. Any additional provisions were only 
valid if they were in writing. In the circumstances I dont believe I can fairly conclude that 
Miss R was induced into agreeing to the trial membership by anything she was told and 
which was not included in the written agreement  still less by anything she was told and 
which contradicted the contractual documents. 
As far as the affordability of the loan is concerned, I agree with the investigators assessment 
that the duty of Honeycomb was to make proportionate checks to ensure that Miss R could 
meet the payments. I am satisfied too that it did that  taking into account the overall 
household income. I would however remind Honeycomb of its obligations in dealing with 
customers in financial difficulties, if indeed Miss R is struggling to meet the repayments 
needed. 
Miss R has said too that C ought to assist her in transferring the membership to another 
buyer. That however is not a matter in which Honeycomb is involved, so I do not propose to 
comment further on it.   
Finally, I note Miss Rs comment that C is prepared to allow Miss R and her partner until 
September 2022 to use the five weeks available with the trial membership  because of 
Covid-19 restrictions that have limited their ability to use the membership. She says that this 
is a unilateral change to the contract and that it makes no difference that it is, in theory, a 
unilateral change that is to her advantage. 
I am afraid I dont agree with that analysis. A unilateral change made by one party to a 
contract that benefits the other cannot properly give rise to a claim, because there is no loss 
to that other party. By allowing Miss R more time to use the membership benefits, C is putting her in a better position than the strict contractual position. That is very different from 
a unilateral change which disadvantages the party not making the change. And of course 
she does not have to use the membership after March 2022 if she does not want to take 
advantage of the concession.               
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Honeycomb Finance Limited to 
take any further steps to resolve Miss Rs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman