DRN-4154560
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complained that their claim for storm damage was unfairly declined under their 
home insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA).
What happened
Following a storm Mr and Mrs D made a claim on their policy. Part of the flat roof had 
peeled off in bad weather. Mr and Mrs D were quoted £2,940 to have the roof repaired.
AXA appointed a surveyor to validate and review the claim but based upon the surveyors 
report and photographic evidence AXA decided to decline the claim. AXA didnt dispute 
there was a storm at the time of the reported incident. However, it said the damage was 
more likely caused due to a gradual deterioration of the roof materials, which it said was 
excluded by the policy.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with this outcome, as they felt they had taken advice on the 
condition of the flat roof and didnt think it needed maintenance. They think the claim 
outcome is unreasonable and theyve asked for their claim to be settled in full.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. Based upon the evidence presented 
she thought AXA had made a fair decision. She didnt think the storm was the main cause of 
damage, she thought AXA had been reasonable to conclude the damage was caused by 
gradual deterioration. Mr and Mrs D disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
AXA didnt dispute that storm conditions were present at the time of the reported incident. 
So, I will move on to the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
I think a storm of the force reported by Mr and Mrs D could dislodge tiles or blow them from 
the roof. However, I would expect a well installed and maintained flat roof to withstand 
damage in most storms, although as there is a small chance damage couldve been caused, 
I will consider the next question. 
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
AXA said gradual deterioration of materials on the flat roof were the main cause of the 
damage  so I have checked the surveyors report to see if it supports AXAs conclusion. 
The surveyor said the area of damage is the flat roof on the two-storey extension at the rear 
of the property. Overall, the roof is in poor condition. It has a three-layer green mineral felt 
finish, that was the original covering on the roof, and at some point a two-ply layer has been 
bonded on top of this to prevent further deterioration. This is from a previous repair, likely 
from water ingress. The original felt roof is beyond its useful life, which is why a further layer 
has been installed on top of it. The quality of installation is poor. The layers have not bonded 
and would only be suitable as a temporary measure. This temporary repair was carried out 
several years ago, and no permanent repairs have been carried out by the policyholder. 
There is no evidence of damage as a direct result of storm conditions. The mineral felt roof 
was already in need of replacement. There is no internal damage to consider. The claim is to 
be declined in full.
When Mr and Mrs D complained, they provided their own evidence. They said theyd had a 
buildings survey completed on the house a few years previously and it didnt indicate any 
need for maintenance to the flat roof. They said as lay people, they wouldnt have known of 
any need to do maintenance on the roof.
Ive read the extract from the report Mr and Mrs D provided. It states [the roof] was 
installedwithin the past 15-20 years. Flat coverings do not last as long as those on sloping 
roofs and they can quickly get worse. The surface of the flat roof is unprotected from the 
effects of the sun (called solar protection) and this can reduce the life of the roof covering. 
This should be installed soon. There are a few puddles on the flat roof that indicates that it is 
not totally laid to correct falls to properly drain to the gutters and downpipes. This can 
shorten the life of the flat roofno repair is currently needed. The property must be 
maintained in the normal way.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D took advice via their buildings surveyor, so they wouldnt have 
known about the condition of the roof. I think this wouldve been a fair argument if the storm 
happened shortly after the survey was done. However, the reported incident was 30 months 
later, and the report states the roof can decline quickly, is of age and has some identified 
weaknesses. So, I dont think its reasonable to rely on this report now. I think its likely the 
roof wouldve needed some maintenance or even replacement in this time.
Mr and Mrs D said they did have a roofer do some other repairs to another part of the house 
around a year after they had their survey done. They said he confirmed the flat roof was in 
good order. Unfortunately, there isnt evidence from the roofer to support what he said and 
as the reported incident was another 15 months later, I think there was still opportunity for 
the roof to decline in that period. So, Im not persuaded by what the roofer may have stated.
I have also reviewed the photos that AXAs surveyor took to support his findings. There are 
several good quality photos to show the condition of the roof. Whilst, I dont have the 
knowledge to qualify all his comments, its clear a temporary repair layer has been laid over 
the original felt surface. So, I find the surveyors commentary reliable. As the original roofing 
was around 15 years old, I also think its likely it was towards the end of its useful life.Therefore, I think AXA has been fair in concluding the main cause of the damage was due to 
gradual deterioration of the roof covering and materials. I think its likely the storm merely 
highlighted this pre-existing condition. This is what the surveyor observed. I think AXA has 
been reasonable to conclude the storm wasnt the main cause of damage.
Ive checked the policy and there is a general exclusion on page 57 that states we will not 
pay for any damage caused by gradual deterioration / maintenance. This is further defined 
as loss or damage caused gradually, or by wear and tear, depreciation, the effects of light
or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot or fungus and costs that arise from the normal
use, maintenance and upkeep of your buildings and its contents. 
I think AXA has fairly declined the claim for damage to the roof  as gradual deterioration is 
excluded from the policy. So, I think the conclusions reached on this claim are fair. So, as I 
dont think AXA has done anything wrong, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require AXA Insurance UK Plc 
to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman