DRN-2740246
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as S has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted by the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
Mr H, a director of S, has brought the complaint on Ss behalf. 
What happened
S held a business protection insurance policy with Allianz. S claimed on its policy after its 
business was forced to close by the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Allianz turned down Ss claim as they didnt think Covid-19 had caused damage to property. 
They added, that while the policy also covers a list of specified illnesses, Covid-19 isnt one 
of the illnesses covered. 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, S brought its complaint to our service. It said Covid-19 
couldnt have been listed on the policy as it wasnt in existence at the time it was written. S 
also thought the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test 
case meant its claim should be covered. 
Our investigator looked into Ss complaint but didnt think it should be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the policy covered all-risks 
and there wasnt an exclusion which applied to its claim. It also thought it should be covered 
under the extension for denial of access because access to its premises was hindered and 
the extension didnt require its property to be damaged. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ss business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. The business interruption section of 
Ss policy doesnt cover closure for every eventuality unless excluded. What is and isnt 
covered is set out in the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this 
particular policy to see if Allianz have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy when declining Ss claim. Id like to reassure S that I have considered 
the whole policy but will only comment on the sections that appear most relevant. 
Damage
The core business interruption section of Ss policy cover says:
The Insurer will indemnify the Insured for Business Interruption as a result of 
Damage occurring during the Period of Insurance
 
Damage is defined in the policy as: 
Destruction, damage or loss insured under Sections 1 and 7 of this Policy
Section 1 is Trade Contents, S doesnt have cover for Section 7. So for this part of 
the policy to provide cover Ss business interruption would need to be as a result of 
destruction, damage or loss to its trade contents. I havent seen anything to indicate 
that Covid-19 caused damage to Ss trade contents. So even though there isnt an 
exclusion for the circumstances of Ss closure, this section of the policy doesnt 
provide cover. 
Denial of access
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. The denial of 
access extension says:
Loss as insured by this Section resulting from interruption of or interference with 
the Business in consequence of Damage caused by any Event covered under 
Section 1 Trade Contents to property in the immediate vicinity of the Premises 
which shall prevent or hinder the use of or access to the Premises, whether the 
Insureds property or the Buildings at the Premises be Damaged or not.
S has highlighted parts of this extension, but it needs to be considered in its entirety. For this 
extension to provide cover, the interruption to Ss business would need to be in 
consequence of damage, as defined by the policy, to property in the immediate vicinity of its 
premises. While access to Ss premises might have been prevented or hindered, I havent 
seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property in the immediate vicinity 
of its premises which prevented or hindered access. Therefore, this extension doesnt 
provide cover. 
Specified illness
This extension provides cover for loss as a direct result of a specified illness at Ss premises 
or within a 25 mile radius of it. The policy sets out a specified list of illness which are 
covered, Covid-19 isnt included in the list. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of illnesses. But there are similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ss policy is not like this  it 
sets out a defined list of the illnesses which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording 
of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new illnesses which might emerge. 
So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases and 
therefore this doesnt provide cover for Ss claim.
S also referred to the FCA test case however, whether the claim should be paid depends on 
the terms and conditions of the policy and in this case the outcome of the test case doesnt 
impact Ss claim. I appreciate this isnt the outcome S was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I cant fairly require Allianz to pay Ss claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman