DRN-2630457
The complaint
Mr E complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has declined his tradesman insurance claim for 
the theft of some tools from the back of his pick-up truck.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr E was working for a client as a landscape gardener installing a fence and 
a hand rail at the side of their property. His trade vehicle is a pick-up truck that has a cabin 
for the driver and passengers and an open rear cargo area. Mr Es work was about 10 
metres from his truck. Towards the end of the day, Mr E was packing up and returning his 
tools to the back of his truck. At least part of the rear of his truck was obscured from his line 
of sight when he was on site. At one point Mr E heard some children go past. 
Upon returning home Mr E noticed that some of his tools had been stolen which he assumed 
had been carried out opportunistically by the children hed heard passing. Mr E made a claim 
for the theft to AXA. 
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim. After considering the circumstances of 
the theft against the policy terms, the loss adjuster declined the claim on behalf of AXA. The 
loss adjuster said that it was a policy requirement that loss of property from theft from an 
unattended vehicle wasnt covered unless it could be shown that force or violence had been 
used to gain entry. The loss adjuster said that neither had been used. And he said that the 
fact Mr E was unaware of exactly when the theft had occurred and that his vision of the 
vehicle was (at least partly) obscured meant it was unattended at the time the theft 
happened. 
Mr E complained to AXA. AXA wasnt able to provide a final response to Mr Es complaint so 
he complained to this service. Our investigator looked into his complaint but didnt 
recommend it was upheld because he didnt think AXA had unreasonably declined the claim. 
Mr E disagreed with our investigators findings so the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for any disappointment this will cause Mr E I dont think his complaint should be 
upheld. Ill explain why.  
Mr Es policy sets out what loss and damage will be covered by AXA. If Mr E can show that 
his loss is covered by the policy terms then AXA must pay the claim unless it can 
successfully rely on one of the policy exclusions to defeat it. 
Here the section of the policy applicable to Mr Es loss  the theft of his tools from the rear of 
his truck  is that relating to business equipment, own plant and tools. This section covers 
Mr E for loss or damage to such property. It also sets out certain circumstances  or 
exclusions  where the loss of such equipment wont be covered. Specifically, it says: We 
will not pay for:4. theft or attempted theft of property insured while contained in an 
unattended vehicle or trailer unless there is evidence of forcible and violent entry to the 
vehicle or trailer.
Such a clause is common to these types of policies as it reduces the risk to the insurer of 
tradesmen leaving their vehicles or trailers unsecured and opportunistic thieves taking 
advantage as a result. 
Mr E told the loss adjuster that the site of his work that day was about 10 metres from his 
vehicle. And he said that hed taken his tools out of the cab of the pick-up and placed them 
in the cargo area for ease of access and he was back and forth between the two roughly 
every half hour during the day. Mr E told our investigator that at the end of the day he carried 
his tools back to the cargo area of the pick-up. In both cases, whilst Mr E was on site, and 
his tools were in the cargo area, I think its reasonable to say the vehicle was unattended. 
That being the case, the policy requirement for a theft of property from a vehicle, requires 
that the theft is carried out using force and violence. 
Unfortunately for Mr E it appears that no force of violence was required because the tools 
were unattended in the (open) cargo area. It appears, because they were neither locked 
inside the pick-up (which wouldve required force and violence to gain access to them) nor 
was Mr E in attendance, some opportunistic thieves took them.
Mr E has been the victim of an unpleasant crime and despite my natural sympathies for the 
situation in which he has found himself, I cant reasonably say that AXA has unfairly declined 
his claim. Taking all the circumstances into account, along with the policy terms and 
conditions, I cant fairly uphold Mr Es complaint and make AXA accept his claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman