DRN-2685914
The complaint
Miss O has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
In 2015, Miss O took out a credit card with Barclays. They gave her a credit limit of £11,000.
In 2016, Miss O fell into financial difficulties. She explained that she was unable to get a 
consolidation loan as she was in too much debt. And she felt she couldnt explore other debt 
options such as insolvency as she needed a clean credit file for her career. She explained 
that in order to keep up her repayments she had to take on second and third jobs, work 
seven days a week, and take on lodgers. She said this put her under huge financial and 
mental strain.
Miss O complained that her credit card had been irresponsibly lent. But Barclays said that 
shed passed their affordability checks and, since shed been keeping up with her payments, 
they hadnt been aware she was in difficulties.
I sent Miss O and Barclays a provisional decision on 15 February 2021, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think this credit card was irresponsibly lent to Miss O  Ill 
explain why.
Barclays were required to establish whether Miss O could sustainably repay her borrowing  
and not just whether the repayments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties.
Here, Miss O has described in detail the great difficulties she went to in order to keep up her 
repayments. So while I understand Barclays point that she hasnt missed any payments, 
I dont think that shows that this credit card debt was sustainable for her.
I think it should have been clear to Barclays at the point of sale that this wasnt sustainable 
lending. At that point, Miss O already had unsecured debts worth just under 200% of her 
annual post-tax salary. Her fixed loan repayments alone took up 40% of her monthly take-
home pay  and thats not including the variable card repayments on top. She was living out 
of her overdraft. And Barclays were offering her a credit limit at around 75% of her annual 
take-home pay.
Given Miss Os income, debt situation, and the potential amounts and repayment periods 
that Barclays were looking at, I think it should have been reasonably clear to them that she 
wouldnt be able to sustainably afford the lending they gave her.
I note the argument that Miss O wasnt obliged to use the full credit limit. But Barclays were 
required to assess affordability on the basis that she did use it. They needed to make sure 
that she could sustainably repay the full limit in a reasonable period and without undue 
difficulties. Here, I dont think that she could, and I think they should have known that.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
15 March 2021. Miss O accepted the provisional decision, and Barclays didnt add 
anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss O sent in some information about her current balance, as she was worried about it 
affecting the case. I wont go into detail on that point here as my decision is about the 
lending of the credit card in 2015, rather than the current balance. But I will assure Miss O 
that that issue hasnt affected the outcome of this case. If she likes, we can pass her email 
onto Barclays so that they have the same explanation  if shed like us to do that, please 
could she let our investigator know.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments regarding the lending of this card 
in 2015. So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that 
I think it was irresponsibly lent.
Putting things right
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Re-work the credit card account to remove all historic interest and charges, such that 
Miss Os repayments are treated as though they were entirely applied against the 
principal sums borrowed;
If, by re-working the account like this, it means that Miss O overpaid her credit card 
balance: refund the extra she paid and add 8% simple interest on top  calculated 
from the point Miss O made each overpayment until the date its refunded to her;
Freeze interest and charges on any remaining balance; and-
Remove any negative information about this account from Miss Os credit file, if there 
is any.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires businesses to take off tax from this simple interest. 
Barclays must give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Os complaint, and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right in the way 
I set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman