DRN-3455160
The complaint
Miss G complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly gave her a 
running account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In 2012, Miss G applied for a running credit account with Studio Retail. She was given an 
initial credit limit of £100. The account fell into abeyance for some years before being 
used again in 2016. In December 2016 the credit limit was raised to £300 in December 
2016 and increased twice more until the credit limit was £700 in May 2017. 
In 2020, Miss G complained to Studio Retail to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Studio Retail ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before increasing her credit limits.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss G didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Studio Retail will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases of credit 
and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the specifics into question, so, I 
dont intend to cover them off here. This is a complaint I can consider in full. I say that 
because Studio Retail has provided no evidence that Miss G was aware or ought to have 
been aware of a cause for complaint more than three years before she did so. This is not 
a moot point. But as I agree with the adjudicator that the complaint should not be upheld, I 
am proceeding to a final decision on this case. 
Miss Gs complaint is that Studio Retail made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Miss G has not been able to 
provide any bank statements from the times in question. Studio Retail has explained that it 
carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was 
able to offer at each stage of its lending. Its possible that Studio Retail failed to make 
adequate checks before providing Miss G with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think 
better enquiries would have caused Studio Retail to think the initial credit limits or the credit 
increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit and credit increases were modest and the monthly 
payments for that credit were also relatively modest. Subsequently, the account, from 
inception to the last credit increase, was largely well managed. I say that because from 
inception to the last credit increase there was only one month that showed an adverse 
marking. And Miss G was not using anything close to the full credit limits available to her. 
And what Miss Gs credit report shows is that whilst there were two other accounts that 
showed a small number of adverse markings, they were for small amounts. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss G to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Studio Retail to think that the credit it 
provided Miss G was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss G was 
managing her account or what Studio Retail could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Miss G will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Miss G to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman