DRN-4223492
The complaint
Mrs M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) caused delays after she
made a home emergency claim and this caused further damage to her home, which has
resulted in her incurring a financial loss.
What happened
In May 2022 Mrs M discovered a leak behind her fridge, so she contacted British Gas, her
home emergency insurance provider. British Gas appointed an engineer, and the leak was
stopped.
Shortly after this, Mrs M discovered there was a second leak, but as she was unable to
establish where it was coming from or stop it, she again contacted British Gas.
An appointment was made for the following day, but the engineer didnt turn up. Mrs M
contacted British Gas and they arranged an all-night appointment, but again an engineer
didnt arrive. Mrs M again contacted British Gas and an engineer attended and stopped the
leak, this was around 48 hours after first contacting British Gas about the second leak.
Mrs M has had to make a claim under her home insurance for the damage caused by the
leaks. She says that due to British Gas delays in attending to the second leak, the damage
was much worse. Mrs Ms home insurance provider hasnt covered all the repairs, and shes
had to pay a contribution of £621.34 towards this, along with the excess under her home
insurance policy (£450).
Mrs M wants British Gas to reimburse both the policy excess and the contribution she had to
pay. British Gas didnt agree and offered £100 compensation instead. As Mrs M remained
unhappy, she approached this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and he upheld it in part. He said that
Mrs M would always have needed to claim for the damage caused by the first leak. So, he
said Mrs M would always have had to pay an excess to her home insurer regardless of
British Gas handling of the second leak, therefore he didnt recommend British Gas
reimburse this.
However, he said that due to the delays caused by British Gas during its handling of the
claim for the second leak, the damage was potentially worse than it otherwise wouldve
been. So, he said British Gas should reimburse the £621.34 contribution Mrs M had to pay
her home insurer. He also said that due to British Gas handling of things, this caused
additional distress and inconvenience, including additional repairs being required and the
consequential impact of this, so he recommended the compensation be increased from £100
to £200.
Mrs M broadly accepted what the investigator said, although she believed a higher level of
compensation was warranted. British Gas didnt agree with the recommended increased
compensation or reimbursing the contribution Mrs M paid.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator. Therefore, I issued a 
provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings, 
before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision. Im minded to reach a different outcome to our
investigator, so Im issuing a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity 
to comment on my initial findings, before reaching my final decision.
Mrs M has asked for reimbursement of the £450 excess she had to pay to make a 
claim under her home insurance for damage caused by the leaks.
Like our investigator, Im persuaded Mrs M would always have needed to claim for 
the damage caused by the first leak, so she would always have had to pay her claim 
excess, regardless of British Gas handling and delays during the second leak. This 
is supported by the fact that Mrs M contacted her home insurer following the first leak 
to make a claim, and prior to the second leak happening. The home insurer also 
treated all the damage under the claim for the first leak, without a second claim (or 
excess payment) needing to be made. Mrs M also confirmed to this service when she 
contacted her home insurer:
18th May and we further contacted the Claims Manager again on 26th May 
to provide details of the second leak which they later confirmed on 17th June 
the damage caused by the 2nd leak has damaged the same material 
damaged in the first leek (sic) therefore repairs will be done without a 2nd 
claim.
Therefore, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct British Gas to reimburse 
the excess as a claim always needed to be made for the first leak and the damage 
that caused.
However, it isnt disputed by British Gas that they caused delays in dealing with the 
second leak. This is due to British Gas not categorising the leak as an emergency, 
despite being aware that Mrs M was unable to stop the leak or identify where it was 
coming from.As the second leak wasnt classed as an emergency, this meant engineers werent
prioritised to attend. And despite expecting engineers to attend, and changing the
appointments to include an all-night appointment, engineers still didnt arrive. Mrs M 
had to make many calls to British Gas (and their agents) to ask for assistance. But 
despite this, as it wasnt classed as an emergency in error, it took around 48 hours 
for someone to attend and stop the leak, despite British Gas being aware that the 
leak was uncontained during this time.
Mrs Ms home insurer only covered 50% of some of the works, which left Mrs M 
needing to pay a contribution of £621.34 towards these. Our investigator said he was 
persuaded British Gas handling and delays could have caused the damage to 
worsen, which he said resulted in Mrs M needing to pay a contribution. Therefore, he 
said British Gas should reimburse this. However, I dont agree, Ill explain why.
Mrs Ms home insurer actually covered all the damage caused by both leaks, and 
they also confirmed (as Ive mentioned above) that the second leak was to the same 
material damage as the first leak. So, the leak itself and repairs associated with the 
damage it caused didnt result in the contribution being required from Mrs M.
Instead, Mrs Ms utility room flooring wasnt damaged by the leak, but the flooring 
matched and was continuous from the kitchen where damage occurred. Its this 
undamaged matching flooring which Mrs Ms home insurer paid 50% of, and asked 
Mrs M for a 50% contribution towards. Not the actual leak damage itself or 
associated repairs.
I cant consider as part of this complaint whether Mrs Ms home insurer was 
reasonable in only paying 50% of this and asking Mrs M for 50%, as this complaint 
isnt about them. But I can consider whether British Gas should pay this cost.
However, Im not minded to conclude they should. I say this because Im satisfied 
Mrs M would always have needed to make a claim for leak one, and this included 
damage to the kitchen flooring, regardless of leak two, as outlined above. That 
always wouldve left the utility room flooring with a loss of match and a contribution 
being required from Mrs M. But it isnt British Gas handling or delays of the second 
leak that led to that mis-match, its the first leak and the damage that caused to the 
kitchen flooring which did.
Therefore, Im not minded to conclude its British Gas handling of things which has 
led Mrs M needing to make a 50% contribution towards the undamaged matching 
flooring, so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct them to cover those costs 
Mrs M incurred.
With this in mind, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my 
provisional decision, I wont be directing British Gas to reimburse £621.34.
Our investigator also said it was British Gas failures which led to the extent of the 
damage caused needing repairing, and a contribution from Mrs M, so he 
recommended they increase compensation from £100 to £200 for the impact this 
had.However, as Ive explained, I dont think the contribution was required due to 
British Gas handling of things. But I do accept that potentially the damage couldve 
been worse than it might otherwise have been (but the home insurer has covered the 
repairs), and I do appreciate the delays in attending to the second leak wouldve 
been distressing for Mrs M, as she needed to call British Gas a number of times. But 
the first leak wouldve always needed repairs regardless and caused inconvenience 
associated with that. And I think the £100 compensation already paid by British Gas 
for their service failings is reasonable, so unless anything changes as a result of the 
responses to my provisional decision, Im not minded to direct them to increase this.
Therefore, I wasnt minded to uphold Mrs Ms complaint or to direct British Gas to do 
anything further.
The responses to my provisional decision
British Gas responded and said they had nothing further to add.
Mrs M also responded, but she didnt agree. Mrs M said the delay in British Gas attending to 
the second leak resulted in her family having to endure a dangerous situation, and this was 
very distressing. Mrs M maintains that British Gas should pay her further compensation.
Mrs M also says she had some left-over flooring and her home insurer could have repaired 
the flooring damaged by the first leak with this, if it wasnt for the second leak, which she 
says was caused by British Gas and their delay in attending. Mrs M says this resulted in 
more damage being caused and more flooring requiring replacement. So, Mrs M maintains 
that British Gas should cover the 50% contribution she had to pay her home insurer towards 
the undamaged matching flooring.
However, Mrs M accepted what I said about the excess being required under her home 
insurance regardless of the second leak, and said she is no longer asking for this from 
British Gas.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. Having 
done so, and whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mrs M, my final decision 
remains the same as my provisional decision.
Mrs M has said she accepts what I said in my provisional decision about an excess being 
payable to her home insurer regardless of the second leak, because she always wouldve 
needed to claim due to the first leak. Therefore, I wont revisit that point again here as I see 
no reason to change my thoughts on this.
However, Mrs M says she had some left-over flooring, and her home insurer could have 
used that to repair the flooring damaged by the first leak, which then wouldnt have resulted 
in a loss of match or a contribution being required from her. But Mrs M says that due to the 
second leak, and delay in British Gas attending, more damage was caused which meant 
more flooring needed replacing - and resulted in a loss of match and Mrs M needing to pay a 
contribution. Whilst I note what Mrs M has said, there hasnt been any evidence provided to support that if 
it was only the first leak that occurred, her home insurer would only ever have needed to use 
flooring which she already had to carry out repairs, which would have avoided a loss of 
match and a contribution being needed. 
Previously, in contrast to what Mrs M said in response to my provisional decision about the 
insurer using the left-over flooring, Mrs M had said that if it wasnt for the second leak, and 
the delay in British Gas attending, she wouldnt have needed to claim at all and couldve 
repaired the floor herself using the left-over floorboards. However, Mrs M had already 
contacted her home insurer to make a claim before the second leak happened. If as Mrs M 
says, the first leak caused minimal damage and could have been repaired by her using 
flooring she already had, its unclear why she would have made a claim for the first leak 
damage.
Furthermore, when the second leak happened, the home insurer treated all the damage 
under the one claim for the first leak, and said this was because the damage caused in the 
second leak was to the same material damage from the first leak. 
So, I think this supports that the damage caused during the first leak would always have 
required repairing, resulting in a loss of match to the undamaged matching flooring (which 
Mrs Ms home insurer has paid 50% towards), and a contribution being required from Mrs M 
towards this. Therefore, Im not going to direct British Gas to reimburse Mrs Ms 50% 
contribution. 
Mrs M has also explained how distressing it was, and that her family had to endure a 
dangerous situation due to delay in British Gas attending to the second leak, and whilst the 
damage is being repaired. Whilst I recognise what Mrs M says, British Gas accepts it caused 
delays in attending to the second leak. But damage had also already been caused during the 
first leak, which British Gas wasnt responsible for, and this would always have needed 
repairing, impacting Mrs M and her family. British Gas has recognised the delays in 
attending to the second leak by paying £100 compensation, and I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, so Im not going to direct them to increase this.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman