DRN-1193311
 
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the method esure Insurance Limited (esure) used to calculate a 
valuation for his vehicle when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. Mr F wants 
the market value of his vehicle based on four motor industry guides and to be compensated 
for the stress and loss he says hes suffered. 
What happened
Mr F made a claim on his motor insurance policy following a collision with a deer. Due to the 
damage sustained in the collision, the vehicle was a total loss. esure offered to settle the 
claim by paying Mr F the market value of his vehicle (minus any policy excess). 
Mr F was unhappy with the figure esure had reached as he felt they undervalued his vehicle. 
Mr F was also unhappy with how esure contacted him, in particular a text message theyd 
sent him. He complained to esure and they said theyd reached their valuation by taking the 
average of four motor trade guides. Mr F pointed out, and esure later accepted, that theyd in 
fact reached their valuation by disregarding the highest value and taking the average of the 
remaining three values.
Mr F remained unhappy with esures response and referred his complaint to our service. He 
also was unhappy that he paid to hire a car at a total cost of £263 whilst esures investigation 
was ongoing. In their initial assessment, our investigator didnt recommend Mr Fs complaint 
be upheld as he felt that esure had reached their valuation using a fair approach and that it 
wouldnt be reasonable to ask them to cover the cost of the hire car. 
Mr F disagreed and responded to say that esure said theyd used four valuations when 
calculating the average and not based it on three. 
The complaint has now been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service doesnt usually value cars. Instead we look at whether an insurer has reached a 
valuation fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy. 
In summary, Mr Fs policy says that it will pay the market value of the car prior to the loss. 
Market value is described by the policy as:
the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on the open market 
immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is based on cars of 
the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at the time of 
accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides including: ... 
This may not be the price you paid when you purchased the car.Our service generally thinks that the fairest approach for an insurer to take when making a 
valuation is to consider relevant motor trade guides. These are based on extensive national 
research of likely selling prices. And they can provide valuations based on the make, model, 
age, condition and specification of a car. So, we generally find them more reliable than other 
sources, for example adverts which dont take account of any negotiation from the 
advertised price.
Mr F has expressed concerns about how esure reached their valuation. Its now not in 
dispute that they based their calculation on three motor trade values rather than the four 
theyd told Mr F at one point. Im satisfied that their explanation that four was communicated 
instead of three because of a typo is reasonable and it wasnt a deliberate attempt to 
mislead Mr F.  
In this case, esure considered valuations given by four trade guides but excluded the highest 
value when coming to their valuation. Generally, if one of the motor trade guides is out of line 
- that includes both higher and lower than the other valuations, our service would say that its 
reasonable for the insurer to exclude it when coming to their valuation.
Ive also checked the values produced by esure and Im satisfied that theyre accurate and 
the valuation offered is in line with them. 
So, on balance I think that esures offer to settle the claim is fair, reasonable and in line with 
the policy terms. Ultimately, even though esure in error said theyd used the average of four 
motor trade guides, they did still reach the valuation using a fair and reasonable approach. 
Mr F has said that hes had to spend £9,500 on another vehicle even though its only 3 
months older than the vehicle he claimed for. My decision doesnt deal with the price paid for 
the new vehicle as thats a separate matter and it was a decision that Mr F made without any 
involvement of esure. Im satisfied that esure have made a fair and reasonable offer for the 
vehicle that Mr Fs claimed for. 
Other points raised by Mr F
I dont think that it would be reasonable to direct esure to pay Mr F for the cost of a 
hire vehicle he had. Under his policy, esure would provide a courtesy car but not if 
the vehicle was to be considered a total loss. As Mr Fs vehicle was categorised as a 
total loss, I cant fairly say that esure have done anything wrong on this point. Ive 
also noted Mr F didnt take out optional car hire cover with this policy.
Mr F was unhappy with how esure communicated with him when he made his claim. 
In particular, a text message they sent him. But I cant fairly say that esure acted 
without care or compassion by sending the text message. In my opinion, esure were 
trying to contact Mr F quickly  so not to cause delays.
Ive also noted what Mr F has said about the We are pleased to enclose your 
cheque wording. In my opinion this isnt esure demonstrating a lack of care but 
giving Mr F the positive news that they are making an offer for his vehicle. Had this 
wording been used in relation to a different type of insurance claim, for example a life 
insurance claim, then perhaps Id understand why Mr F might take the view he has, 
but this offer was for a vehicle and I dont think esure have acted unreasonably by 
using that wording. 
Having carefully considered everything, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require esure 
to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2019.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman