DRN-3010949
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, surrounding the issuance of a check to him.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr D received a text message from Barclays which advised that he was 
in credit and that a cheque would be issued to him. When no cheque subsequently arrived, 
Mr D spoke with Barclays, but they were unable to tell him what the cheque was for or what 
the value of the cheque would be. Mr D wasnt happy about this, and he was also unhappy 
that the Barclays staff hed spoken with had been rude and that he hadnt received a call 
back from a manager as hed been promised. So, Mr D raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ds complaint. They explained that the cheque that Mr D should have 
received was for £6.50 and was a balance remaining on an account held by Mr D following 
the closure of that account. Barclays apologised to Mr D for not being able to provide clear 
information about this when hed called, and offered compensation to Mr D of £75, along 
with the £6.50 that he was owed, which made a total offer of payment of £81.50.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the offer of compensation 
already made by Barclays did represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint, so 
they didnt recommend that this complaint be upheld. 
Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr D to have been informed that he 
would be receiving a cheque but to have not received one, and that it must have been 
further frustrating for Mr D to have called Barclays about this but to have not been given 
clear information about what the cheque was for or what the value of the cheque was.
In such circumstances, what this service would expect would be that Barclays would provide 
Mr D with the information that he was seeking as well as to apologise for not doing so initially 
and to offer a fair and reasonable compensation payment to Mr D for the inconvenience and 
upset that Mr D might have incurred.
I think that Barclays have already done that here. They issued a complaint response letter to 
Mr D which confirmed that the cheque was for £6.50 and was a balance left over following 
the closure of one of Mr Ds accounts. Barclays also apologised to Mr D and made an offer 
of compensation and reimbursement totalling £81.50. This feels fair to me, and Im satisfied 
that it does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this aspect of Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D has also stated that he felt that the Barclays staff he spoke with on the telephone were 
rude to him and gave him incorrect information and that requests he made to be called back 
werent honoured. 
Ive listened to several recorded telephone calls between Mr D and Barclays, and while I 
concur that Barclays werent able to provide the information Mr D was seeking regarding 
what the cheque was for and the value of the cheque, Im satisfied that Barclays have 
already offered fair compensation for these matters as explained above.
Additionally, I cant conclude from listening to these calls that Barclays staff were rude to Mr 
D or that they provided any other incorrect information beyond that already discussed. I also 
havent heard any instances where Mr D was promised a call back by an advisor, and so I 
dont feel that I can reasonably consider upholding these aspects of Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D has also expressed dissatisfaction with how his complaint to Barclays was handled by 
Barclays. This aspect of Mr Ds complaint sits outside the remit of what this service is 
permitted to consider, and this is because this service isnt permitted to consider complaints 
about how a business has handled a complaint.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and I remain satisfied that the complaint response that Barclays have 
already issued  which includes the offer of £81.50 as previously discussed  does 
represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. It follows from this that I will not 
be upholding this complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr D was wanting, but I trust that he will 
understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have. I 
would also encourage Mr D to contact Barclays to accept the offer of £81.50 if he wishes to 
do so.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman