DRN-3221497
The complaint
Mr M is complaining that Britannia Global Markets Limited quoted the wrong price on an 
equity option. He instructed the purchase of the option based on the price quoted and when 
he found out that it was the wrong price, Britannia wouldnt unwind it.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. The 
facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Britannia have explained that the recording of the call during which Mr M was given a 
quote was scrambled by their system. It didnt take proper account of when Mr M was 
on hold and deleted these segments of the call from the track with Mr Ms voice, but 
not from the track with the traders voice, resulting in the recording playing Mr Ms 
words earlier in the recording than they should have been.
Ive listened to the scrambled call recording, and to the one thats been fixed by 
Britannia, and Im satisfied Britannias explanation of what happened makes sense 
and is consistent with what Ive heard. In those recordings, I can hear background 
noise  so I dont think the traders track has been recorded in an empty office as 
Mr Ms alleged. 
I dont have the skills, experience or remit to conduct a full forensic analysis of the 
audio files and instead my role is to consider what is most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available. 
I appreciate Mr M feels strongly that Britannia have falsified the traders track on the 
call recording but I havent seen enough evidence to reach the same conclusion. 
In the call recording, Mr M and Britannia use the same pricing convention when 
talking about the price of the option  the final price quoted by Britannia is fifteen 
thirty-five and just before that Mr M says if you can do fifteen forty-one So Im 
satisfied both parties were talking about the same price for a contract.
Its normal for option contracts to be quoted in price per share. And these contracts 
were options for 1,000 shares.   Mr M made twelve trades in the same contracts 
between 2016 and this one in March 2020 so he should have been familiar with the 
pricing convention being used. 
Theres one point in the call where Mr M checked the price and said one thousand, 
five hundred and forty-one instead of fifteen forty-one. This could have been seen 
as an indicator that he had a different understanding of the price but he didnt give 
any units so I dont think its fair to expect the Britannia representative to have picked 
up on this.
Mr M says that in a later call on the same day, the Britannia representative admitted 
giving Mr M the wrong price and apologized for making an error. Unfortunately 
Britannia have no record of that call. 
As Ive explained above, I dont think the Britannia representative did make an error 
in quoting the price. Its most likely that he was apologising for any misunderstanding 
that led Mr M to buy an option at a much higher price than he intended. But I cant 
say the Britannia representatives apology was an admission of fault. 
It follows that Im not persuaded Britannia has acted unfairly or unreasonably and so Im not 
upholding Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Britannia Global Markets 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman