DRN-3057948
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the changes that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
made to its overdraft pricing structure.
What happened
In February 2020, NatWest contacted Mr D to say it would be changing the way it charged 
for overdrafts, with the changes due to take place in April 2020. It was moving from a pricing 
model which included monthly and daily overdraft usage fees to one which charged interest 
only, albeit at a higher rate than it had before. 
Mr D complained to NatWest that he felt these changes were unfair as he had a high 
overdraft limit and the changes meant it would cost him a lot more to use. NatWest didnt 
uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said it was entitled to change its pricing structure and that it had 
given him the 60 days notice of the change that was required. Mr D remained dissatisfied 
and referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ds concerns and concluded that NatWest hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly. So she didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr D disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail. 
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So 
while Mr D is unhappy at the increase in NatWests overdraft interest rate, Im afraid that this 
isnt something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at NatWests 
charging structure changes per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr D if 
it implemented these changes unfairly. So Ive considered whether NatWest treated Mr D 
fairly and reasonably when it implemented these changes on his overdraft. 
I dont think that NatWest did treat Mr D unfairly here though. I say this because I can see 
that NatWest did give Mr D notice of the changes that it would be making. And NatWest had 
the right to amend Mr Ds overdraft facility provided it gave the appropriate notice. Im 
satisfied that it did this here. 
A bank is also under an obligation to monitor a customers repayment record and act should 
an overdraft appear to be being used unsustainably. But given that he was able to take out a 
lower cost loan to repay his overdraft when he decided he didnt want to pay the higher 
interest, it seem Mr D wasnt someone who would be locked into accepting the increased 
interest due to having a balance he was unable to clear. So I dont think NatWest needed to 
take any further action here to make sure he wasnt unduly affected by the changes to his 
account. 
Overall bearing in mind all of the circumstances, I dont think that NatWest did anything 
wrong when changing its overdraft pricing structure and I dont think that it treated Mr D 
unfairly when implementing the changes on his overdraft either. So it follows that Im not 
upholding this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman