DRN-2600585
The complaint
Ms C and Mr P (the complainants) have submitted complaints about Fish Financial Ltd 
(Fish) with regards to Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) investments recommended to 
them in 2016 and pension advice given to Ms C at the same time. The pension advice 
matter has been separated. This decision addresses only the EIS advice matter. The 
complainants say:
The EIS investments were unsuitable for them  mainly, Ms Cs investment of 
£20,000 into the Hashtag Pay (HP) EIS fund and Mr Ps investment of £20,000 into 
the Pay Dashboard (PD) EIS fund. [issue 1]
Fishs suitability report for the investments was essentially redundant, as it was 
provided to them in August 2016, five months after the recommendation (and 
execution) of the EIS investments in March 2016. This also meant they were 
insufficiently informed about Fishs fees at the time of the investments.  [issue 2]
Fish concealed its conflict of interests in the EIS recommendations. It hid the fact that 
its directors were also invested in the funds and that the Chairman of PD was also a 
non-executive director of Fish. That conflict influenced Fishs advice against their 
best interests  Ms Cs capital in HP was held inactive for over 12 months without 
any effort by Fish to hold HP accountable; and Mr P was unduly induced to invest a 
further £5,000 into DP. [issue 3]
What happened
Fish disputes the complaint. It says: 
The EIS investments were suitable for the complainants and served their tax 
mitigation objective. This objective created a time pressure upon the matter as a 
whole and upon the recommendation (which needed to be executed before the end 
of the 2015/16 tax year on 5 April 2016), so a detailed Vision Report was issued to 
them (addressed to Mr P) on 29 March, after their meeting on 22 March, and the 
suitability report was then issued in August. The Vision Report was a reasonable 
substitute for a suitability report at the time and it informed them of Fishs fees.
The advising directors stake in the funds was disclosed to the complainants (at least 
Mr P) verbally around the time of the recommendation, at no time did this aspect 
influence Fish in terms of upholding their best interests and the Chairman of PD was 
not a non-executive director of Fish at the time of the recommendation/investment.
Fish was aware of the delay in executing certification for Ms Cs investment in HP but 
was unaware of the cause (a need to first clear a bridging loan within the fund) until 
June 2017, when it recommended that it would be safer for her to be refunded her 
capital (given its revised view at the time that the investment had become unsuitable) 
 which she agreed and which is what happened. A Rights Issue in PD is what led to 
Mr Ps additional investment and that process was neither determined nor controlled 
by Fish. The fund provider sent out direct communication to all investors about this 
and Fish spent considerable time engaged with Mr P in December 2016 and early 
January 2017 to ensure he was fully informed about the process and fully informed to 
make his decision  which he wilfully made. It is noteworthy that he appears to have 
been so comfortable with the additional investment decision that he made a further 
investment in a second Rights Issue in September 2017.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld. She considered that the EIS funds were not unsuitable for the complainants tax 
mitigation objective and that they had the financial capacity for the investments  their capital 
(the collective total they invested) was around 6% of the inheritance of around £2 million 
from which the capital was sourced; and their combined annual earnings at the time almost 
matched the total invested. She noted that the funds were beyond their moderate risk profile 
but considered that, in the context of tax mitigation and the limited investment products for 
that purpose, this did not render them unsuitable. With regards to the other issues, she 
broadly agreed with the points made by Fish.
The complainants disagreed with this outcome and Mr P gave reasons why, which were 
mainly as follows:
Tax mitigation was not their main objective, they sought overall investment planning 
and there was no urgency on their part to invest before the end of the 2015/16 tax 
year.
Fishs fees were not explained to them.
The fact remains that they were not updated on Ms Cs suspended capital in HP 
throughout the time it remained inactive in that fund.
They did not receive direct communication about the Rights Issue in PD, it was Fish 
who informed them much later.
They did not understand the risks in the EIS funds and the investigators reference to 
the capacity of their combined earnings ignores an impending change of 
circumstances in their lives at the time, which created the possibility that they would 
become a single income household.
The investigator was not persuaded to change her view and the matter was referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigators for broadly the 
same reasons she expressed.
Issues 1 and 2
I consider it logical to address issue 2 first, given that it is the document that was presented 
to the complainants prior to their investments, and in order to provide reasons for Fishs 
recommendations. I agree with the complainants argument that the suitability report from 
August 2016 was somewhat redundant, given that it post-dated the investments by five 
months. As such, I have not considered the contents of the suitability report as relevant 
evidence.
On balance, I find that the Vision Report was/is a credible and competent document, in 
terms of providing information to the complainants at the time about Fishs 
recommendations, about why it considered the recommendations suitable for them and 
about Fishs fees. It is a reasonably detailed document, despite its quasi interim nature. It is 
set out over five pages and, I consider, it is broadly just as detailed as some of the definitive investment suitability reports this service has seen  and perhaps even more detailed than 
some others. 
Its background section captured the key facts of the complainants profiles; its Aims & 
Objectives section explicitly referred to tax mitigation (including an interest in using EIS 
funds for that purpose) and investment planning (and management) for the  complainants 
total inheritance capital; a section addressed pension advice for Ms C and a section 
addressed Tax & Investment Planning for both complainants; a section summarised  the 
higher investment risks that EIS, by its nature, entails, referred to having discussed risks 
with the complainants, referred to almost all of their £2 million inheritance (plus a previous 
invested inheritance of £500,000) representing a chargeable gain in need of tax mitigation, 
but advised against subjecting all of those sums to the high risks of EIS investments  
instead, income tax mitigation through EIS investments was recommended for only a total of 
£141,000 out of their capital (£101,000 to mitigate for the 2014/15 tax year and £40,000 to 
mitigate for the 2015/16 tax year); and the penultimate section gave information on Fishs 
initial report fee of £500, ongoing management fee of 1% (of assets under advice) per year 
(or a negotiated lower fee for assets above £1 million) and a one-off 1% recommendation 
implementation fee.
The argument that is implicit within issue 2 is that the complainants were deprived of a 
meaningful suitability assessment and report prior to their investments. I disagree. It is 
evident from what I have summarised above that the Vision Report served, meaningfully, the 
purpose of conveying to them what had been assessed, what had been recommended and 
why, and Fishs fees. On balance, I am persuaded that it was enough for them to make 
informed decisions about the recommended investments.  I consider that the report also 
defeats their arguments that they were not sufficiently informed about Fishs fees and that 
they did not understand the high risks in the EIS funds. 
Issue 1 is about suitability of the funds for the complainants. I agree with the investigators 
finding that, overall and on balance, they were not unsuitable. Mr P makes a fair reference to 
the impending change of circumstances in their lives at the time of the investment. It does 
not appear that the investigator ignored this  or intended to do so. She appears to have 
simply reflected what their circumstances were at the time the investment was made  when 
they were still a dual income household. In any case, and in terms of Fishs suitability 
assessment, the Vision Report shows that it was mindful of the impending change and of its 
potential effect on their household income. The report expressly addresses this.
Nevertheless  and even if an assessment was conducted only on Mr Ps income  the 
complainants still had a sizeable financial capacity in 2016. He earned £70,000 a year, they 
had the previously inherited £500,000 invested in shares (earning annual dividends of 
around £10,000), they had the £2 million inheritance, they had no dependents and they had 
an outstanding mortgage of around £137,000. I am satisfied that the idea of an EIS 
investment(s) was not mismatched by this financial profile.
Available evidence does not support Mr Ps suggestion that tax mitigation was not their main 
objective at the time. The Vision Report shows the opposite and if it was wrong in this 
respect, I would expect contemporaneous evidence  or perhaps even evidence from the 
immediate aftermath of the investments  showing that the complainants either objected to 
what the report said or corrected what it said. I have not seen such evidence.  In addition, I 
have seen email correspondence between the parties in which Fishs EIS recommendation 
is clearly being addressed in the context of tax mitigation  and, again, I have not seen 
evidence of either or both complainants objecting to that or correcting that. Overall, I am 
satisfied that tax mitigation was indeed the complainants objective (or main objective).In this context, it would not have been surprising that EIS funds were being considered  it 
was not and would not have been (at the time) uncommon for EIS investments to be 
considered for tax mitigation purposes. Furthermore, I conclude that there was and would 
reasonably have been time pressure on the investments  given what the Vision Report sets 
out (that is, mitigating tax for both the 2014/15 and 2015/16 tax years). Evidence shows that 
their investments were made before 5 April 2016 (so, made before the end of the relevant 
tax year), which further supports this finding.
The EIS funds matched the complainants tax mitigation objective and they had the financial 
capacity for them. In terms of risks, I agree with the investigators observation that they were 
beyond the moderate risk profile the complainants were assessed as having at the time. 
However, the risk assessment document completed for Mr P was of a general nature. It was 
not specific to tax planning investment and I do not suggest that it ought to have been  the 
general assessment was not insufficient. Investments with tax relief benefits can have 
associated high or higher risks, which perhaps reflects a trade-off for the valuable tax 
benefits they provide and/or which reflects a wider economic drive to boost investments in 
particular parts of the economy and/or in start-up enterprises which carry inherent high risks 
(and to reward such investments with the relevant tax reliefs). The point is that, with a tax 
mitigation objective the complainants were in or around this territory, so recommendation of 
the EIS funds was not necessarily unsuitable. 
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not consider that the EIS funds 
were unsuitable for the complainants.
Issue 3
I consider as follows:
The complainants say Fishs conflict of interests in the EIS funds was concealed, but 
Fish says it was verbally declared to them. I do not have enough evidence to 
determine where credibility lays in these conflicting accounts. However, the conflict of 
interests is not in dispute and I consider that the main matters to determine are 
whether (or not) Fish mismanaged that conflict and/or breached the complainants 
best interests because of that conflict. The complainants say both happened and 
they refer to the Chairman of PD, Ms Cs inactive capital in HP and Mr Ps additional 
investment in PD as the reasons behind their assertion.
It does not appear that the Chairman of PD was a non-executive director of Fish at 
the time of the complainants investment. Even if he was, it is not clear how that 
either did or would have resulted in a detriment to the complainants.
I can understand Ms Cs displeasure with not being informed that money she 
expected to be exposed to the chance of investment returns (in HP) was actually 
suspended and inactive for over a year. However, it remains the case that, at the 
outset, HP was not an unsuitable investment for her; and that her investment in it 
served her tax mitigation objective. Fish appears to have been monitoring it 
thereafter  perhaps not as closely as Ms C would say it should have  and when it 
learnt about the cause of the suspended investment and when it took the view that 
the investment had become unsuitable its recommendation of a refund of her capital, 
which she appears to have agreed, does not strike me as unreasonable. To the 
contrary, it shows that Fish was upholding and safeguarding her best interests. The 
suggestion within this matter is that Fish was conflicted and allowed the capital to 
remain suspended in the fund because it had an interest in that happening. I have 
not seen evidence that Fish had any influence in HP and/or over how HP treated the 
capital. Furthermore, if it was in Fishs interest to have Ms Cs capital retained within 
HP it would not have recommended, with success, a full refund of that capital to her.Unlike HP (and Ms C), I have not seen evidence that PD became unsuitable for Mr P 
after it was recommended. I view his additional investment, in response to the Rights 
Issue, in this context and the primary implication that arises is that he would have 
made that additional investment in his own interest  and any assistance from Fish in 
that respect was also in his interest. I have not seen evidence that the Rights Issue 
was under Fishs influence or control, and information that has been shared with us 
suggests that notification about it was sent out to investors directly by the fund 
provider. Mr P says he did not receive that direct notification and it is not clear why 
that was the case, but that is not a matter for which Fish is responsible. It also does 
not appear that Mr P was subjected to undue influence or duress, from Fish, to 
engage in the Rights Issue. 
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above I do not consider that Fish 
mismanaged the aforementioned conflict of interests or that it breached the 
complainants best interests because of that conflict.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman