DRN-3172752
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 8 May 2018, Miss B was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS. She paid a deposit of £1,850 and the agreement was for £16,395 over 49 
months; with 48 monthly repayments of £250.73 and a final payment of £7,650 if she wanted 
to keep the car at the end of the agreement. At the time the car was just over eight months 
old and had done 10,000 miles.
Miss B has said she had problems with the cars driveshaft, suspension and clutch between 
July and October 2019. These faults were repaired by the supplying dealership at no cost to 
Miss B. Miss B has said that faults happened again in 2021, so she complained to VWFS. 
But VWFS didnt think the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to her, or 
that the initial repairs had failed. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Miss B wasnt happy with VWFSs response, and she referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said there had been faults with the car, which were repaired in 2019. And 
Miss B had been able to drive over 17,500 miles, and for more than a year, before these 
problems started. He thought these faults were in parts that would suffer wear and tear, so, 
given the time and mileage before the faults occurred, he didnt think the car was of an 
unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
The investigator also said that, while Miss B had provided a video in which there was clearly 
a sound, he didnt think this was enough to say there was a fault with the car and that fault 
had been present or developing at the point of supply. So, he didnt think VWFS needed to 
do anything more.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigator. She said that there was obviously a fault with the 
car that wasnt fixed the first time around. And shes asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss B was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, VWFS 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale; and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless VWFS can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, its for Miss B to show that it was present when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss B took possession of it, and this made the car 
not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.
Miss B has complained of ongoing issues with the car, and Ive seen that she took it back to 
the dealership in September 2018, because there was a rattling noise. The job sheet for 19 
September 2018, when the car had done 14,264 miles, shows that this noise was caused by 
personal items Miss B had stored in the door pockets and glove compartment. And no faults 
were found with the car.
Miss B complained to the dealership about issues with the car in July 2019, and the car went 
back to the dealership for repair in August 2019. The job sheet for 15 August 2019, when the 
car had done 27,563 miles, shows that the suspension was greased to fix a creak. At the 
same time, the audio software was updated, and a switch replaced. This work was done 
under warranty, at no cost to Miss B.
Ive also seen a job sheet for 2 October 2019, when the driveshaft was removed and 
reinstalled under warranty. At the time, the car had done 28,751 miles. Although the job 
sheet doesnt give the cause of the fault, it does include the replacement of a single bolt. 
Given this, I think its more likely than not that the fault was caused by a failed/sheared bolt.
Finally, theres a job sheet for 18 October 2019, when the car had done 29,357 miles. This 
shows that the clutch was replaced under warranty.
In May 2021, Miss B complained to VWFS about a noise from the gearbox. And she believes 
this was caused as a result of a failed repair in 2019, or that it indicates an underlying fault 
with the car that hasnt been repaired. And shes also provided two short videos which show 
an unusual noise. But its not possible from these videos to identify the source of the noise. 
Nor is there any supporting evidence, for example a report from an independent engineer, to 
show that the noise is as a result of any fault.
The CRA states that, if a fault is identified after the first six months, its for Miss B to show 
that the fault was present or developing at the time of supply. While its clear that Miss B had 
some repairs done to the car between August and October 2019  between 14 and 17 
months after the car was supplied  she hasnt provided any evidence to show that these 
faults were present or developing when the car was supplied to her in May 2018.As Miss B was able to drive the car for at least 14 months, and around 17,500 miles, before 
any issues were identified, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that these faults werent 
present when the car was supplied. Otherwise they wouldve shown themselves sooner. And 
especially when the car was checked in July 2019 and no faults were found. So, I think the 
faults were most likely a result or wear and tear, and I dont think these mean the car was of 
an unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
Miss B has also complained about noises from the gearbox in May 2021, almost two years 
after the previous repairs to the car. While she believes the noises are as a result of a failed 
repair in 2019, or an underlying fault with the car, she hasnt provided any evidence to 
support this. 
If the repairs werent successful in 2019, then Id expect that any issues wouldve manifested 
themselves sooner. Given this, Im also satisfied that its more likely than not that the noise 
Miss B is now hearing in 2021 is a new issue, one not related to the condition of the car 
when supplied or related to the 2019 repairs.
Given the above, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss B, Im 
satisfied the car was of a satisfactory quality when supplied. Im also satisfied that the faults 
Miss B has had with the car werent present or developing when it was supplied to her. So, 
under the CRA, VWFS arent responsible for the costs of any repairs, and Miss B doesnt 
have the right to reject the car. Which is why I wont be asking VWFS to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman