DRN-3740442
The complaint
A company I shall refer to as B, complains about the settlement by AXA XL Insurance 
Company UK Limited of its business interruption insurance claim, made as a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of the circumstances. Additionally, whilst 
the events have involved third parties, I have just referred to B and AXA XL for the sake of 
simplicity. AXA XL was previously trading as XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited, and 
is ultimately responsible for the decision on the claim settlement.
B operates as an online and retail store. It held a commercial insurance policy underwritten 
by XL Catlin. In March 2020, B suffered a loss of income as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic. B contacted AXA XL to claim for its losses. 
AXA XL agreed that the policy did cover the circumstances of the claim. However, having 
assessed the potential losses that might be claimed for, AXA XL said that the settlement 
would be zero. Essentially, this was because AXA XL considered the payments B had 
received under the Coronavirus Job Retentions Scheme (furlough payments) were a 
saving that the policy said should be deducted from the claim settlement. And as these 
payments exceeded the assessed losses, there was nothing to pay B. 
AXA XL did indicate that other savings might also be deducted, but due to the size of the 
furlough payments a consideration of these would only be relevant if I concluded furlough 
payments should not be deducted.
B disagreed with XL Catlins position and said that the furlough payments were not a saving 
made from a reduction in charges and expenses payable out of gross profit. When AXA XL 
did not change its position, B brought its complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
However, our Investigator thought it AXA XL had acted appropriately when saying that 
furlough payments ought to be deducted from any potential claim settlement. As B remained 
unsatisfied, its complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on B, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
As B has said, the crux of this complaint is whether furlough payments are to be deemed as 
a relevant saving. In determining this, I first need to consider the terms of Bs policy. The 
relevant part says:
The Insurance under Item No.1 is limited to loss of Gross Profit due to: a) reduction 
in Turnover, and b) Increase in Cost of Working, and the amount payable as 
reimbursement thereunder shall be:-
(a) in respect of reduction in Turnover the sum produced by applying the Rate of 
Gross Profit to the amount by which the Turnover during the Reimbursement 
Period shall, in consequence of the Damage, fall short of the Standard Turnover;

Less any sum saved during the Reimbursement Period in respect of charges and 
expenses of the Business payable out of Gross Profit as may cease or be reduced in 
consequence of the Damage
Effectively, what this part of the policy says is that where there is a reduction in turnover due 
to an insured event the amount payable is the loss of gross profit, less any relevant savings 
that would otherwise have been paid out of this.  
I note Bs comments around the insured sum being gross, rather than net, profit. However, 
what is actually insured is essentially gross profit less savings.
The key issue here is whether the furlough payments are a sum saved in respect of charges 
and expenses payable out of gross profit that have ceased or been reduced. 
Furlough payments were paid to businesses by the Government to cover part the cost of 
paying employees. They could not be used for any other purpose (albeit the timing of the 
relevant payments may have meant businesses had already paid staff, and the furlough 
payments acted as a refund of these amounts). 
Paying employees their wages is an expense B would normally have. As a result of the 
furlough payments, B saved on having to pay these wages. So, I consider this can only 
reasonably be described as a saving on the business expenses.
I note B has said that wages are not charges or expenses. However, whilst wages may 
not be a charge, I consider that they would be an expense. An expense of a business will 
include the costs it incurs in providing the goods or service involved. And one of these is 
employment costs. Furlough payments were made to mitigate these costs to businesses, 
allowing them to reduce the need for redundancies. 
B has also disputed that wages are paid out of gross profit. And has said that if a business 
did not make enough gross profit, it would not pay its wages out of this money. However, I 
am not persuaded that this scenario applies to Bs business. And I am satisfied that B would 
normally have paid its staff wages out of gross profit.
The reason for Bs claim was  in simple terms  the COVID-19 pandemic. The Government 
introduced the furlough payments scheme as a result of this pandemic. So, it follows that the 
saving on Bs normal expenses was a consequence of the cause of its claim.
Based on this, it seems clear that XL Catlins was entitled to calculate Bs settlement taking 
into account the furlough payments being a saving  i.e. to deduct these from the potential 
settlement.
I also note the judgment of the court in Stonegate Pub Company v MS Amlin and others 
[2022] EWHC 2549 (Comm), as well as other related judgments. In Stonegate, the court 
considered whether the relevant policyholder in the case should have the furlough payments 
they received deducted from their insurance settlement. So, whilst the court made its 
judgment based on the particular terms of the policy etc. I do consider the judgment to be a 
relevant consideration in Bs case. And our Investigator has referred B to this judgment previously. 
I note B has said that this judgment may be appealed and overturned. But I am required to 
take into account the law as it stands, and that includes existing case law. As such, I 
consider the judgment to be a relevant consideration in this complaint.
The judge in Stonegate determined that furlough payments were deductible from the 
relevant claim settlement, saying at para 270:
"...I hold that the CJRS [furlough] payments did reduce costs payable out of Turnover 
and are to be taken into account under the savings clause."
The clause in question is similar to that in Bs policy, so I think this judgment supports my 
own conclusion in this complaint.
I do note Bs comments that it intends to return the furlough payments to the Government 
and has queried what would then happen. It would seem from XL Catlins early claim 
correspondence that it might then consider this not to be a saving. However, my role in this 
complaint is merely to consider the circumstances at the time of the complaint, rather than 
what might happen in the future. 
Ultimately, taking all of the circumstances into account, I am unable to fairly and reasonably 
say that AXA XL acted inappropriately in deducting the amount of the furlough payments B 
received, relevant to the indemnity period, from the settlement of its claim.
I know this decision will be disappointing for B and its directors, but I hope Ive provided 
them with a thorough explanation of why I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman