DRN-2365675
The complaint 
Mr I has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account, called a Plus account. He paid a monthly fee for the account and received several 
potential benefits in return. He thinks that HSBC should refund him all the fees he paid, plus 
interest. 
What happened 
Mr I has banked with HSBC for quite a long time. HSBC has looked at its records for him 
and has told us they show that:
before February 2009 he had two fee-free accounts, 
in or around February 2009, it sold him the Plus account, which replaced one of his 
fee-free accounts, and started to charge him the monthly fee. 
During 2010, HSBC rebranded the Plus account as an Advance account. In 2014, it changed 
the way the Advance account worked. For many customers, it removed the monthly fee for 
the account itself but added several insurance policies which it called Insurance Aspects, 
for which it charged a separate fee. It did this for Mr I. 
I have taken this account history to be correct 
Two of our adjudicators have already looked into Mr Is complaint and didnt think that 
HSBC had done anything significantly wrong. They didnt recommend that it should give 
him any money back. Mr I didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mr I and HSBC have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive decided 
not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The change from the Plus account to the Advance account does not seem to be particularly 
significant to Mr Is complaint, so I think there are two main parts to his case. The first is 
about the way HSBC sold him the Plus account in 2009 and the second is about the way it 
added Insurance Aspects to his Advance account in 2014. As the two events took place 
around five years apart, I have considered them separately. 
The way HSBC sold the Plus account to Mr I
Neither Mr I, nor HSBC, have told us directly if HSBC sold him the Plus account over the 
phone, during a meeting in one of its branches, over the internet, through the post, or in 
some other way. However, they have both mentioned that HSBC discussed the account 
with him, so it must have been either in a branch or over the phone. It is not particularly 
significant which of these took place. 
When selling a packaged bank account (including the Plus account) during a discussion, 
HSBC was allowed to so as either a recommended or an information-only sale. Whichever 
approach HSBC took for Mr I, I would have expected it to tell him about the Plus accounts 
costs and benefits clearly and give him a choice; and in a recommended sale I would also 
have expected it to check that Plus account was a reasonable match for his personal 
circumstances.
On our questionnaire, Mr I said that HSBC didnt recommend the Plus account to him. And 
HSBC has told us that its usual practice in 2009 was not to make any personal 
recommendations about packaged accounts. So, I have considered this cased as an 
information-only sale. 
Mr I has told us that HSBC switched him to the Plus account and charged him the monthly 
fee without his permission. Hes told us that he only wanted a normal, or fee-free, account 
and never asked for the Plus account. Hes said that he had (and wanted) an overdraft 
facility and thought that the charges may have been connected with his overdraft. Hes 
also explained that he had another packaged bank account with a different bank and so 
didnt need any of the benefits the Plus account could provide. Hes commented that it 
would not have made any sense for him to have had two similar accounts and to have paid 
fees for both.
Its now over ten years since HSBC sold the Plus account to Mr I, so I cant tell for sure 
what happened. However, I find it unlikely that HSBC would have switched Mr Is account 
without his permission. At that time, he had held the free account for at least a couple of 
years, and I havent seen anything to make me think HSBC told him he couldnt keep it. I 
think its far more likely that HSBC told him about the Plus account during the discussion 
that both parties have mentioned and gave him a choice about buying it. 
 
In 2009, the potential benefits of the Plus account included travel insurance, fee-free 
withdrawals from cash machines abroad and free use of a car breakdown service. HSBC 
also charged lower interest rates on overdrafts for customers with Plus accounts than it 
usually applied to customers with fee-free accounts. I think its highly likely that HSBC told 
Mr I about these benefits. After all, it was trying to sell the Plus account to Mr I and it was 
in its own interests to tell him what he could gain by buying it. 
I also think its likely that HSBC told Mr I about the monthly fees, as it would not have been 
plausible for it to say the benefits were free. Furthermore, the fees would appear on Mr Is 
bank statements, and I dont think HSBC would have tried to hide them or present as 
being for an overdraft, particularly as Mr I previously had an overdraft with his fee-free 
account. 
As well as wanting an overdraft facility, I understand that Mr I travelled abroad from time-
to -time and drove a car. So, it seems to me that as well as potentially saving money on 
an overdraft, he may have found some of the other benefits of interest. I do not know 
much about Mr Is other packaged account, but in an information-only sale, it would have 
been up to Mr I to decide for himself whether he wanted either, neither or both. And as Im 
satisfied that HSBC gave him a choice and told him about the Plus accounts costs and 
benefits, I dont hold it responsible for any duplication. I dont think that HSBC mis-sold the Plus account to Mr I. 
The way HSBC added Insurance Aspects to Mr Is Advance account
The changes HSBC made to Mr Is account when it added the Insurance Aspects were 
quite important. But it was allowed to make them provided it told customers what was 
happening and gave them reasonable choices. It usually did this by letter, and I have seen 
an example of the letter it used, which I think dealt with things fairly. It gave customers a 
choice to have the Insurance Aspects or opt out of them. 
HSBCs process for sending the letters seems to have been reliable and Im satisfied that 
its highly likely it sent one to Mr I.
Mr I has denied receiving any letters from HSBC and has also told us that he has dyslexia. I 
am sorry to hear about his dyslexia, but Im satisfied that HSBC made reasonable attempts 
to keep him informed and to give him choices. I dont think it treated him unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Is complaint about HSBC UK
Bank Plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman