DRN-3636823
The complaint
Mr P complains that Phoenix Life Limited mis-sold a unit inked whole of life policy to protect 
a business loan and that he didnt need the cover it provided. 
What happened
In late 1997, Mr P met with a financial adviser of a business that now been acquired by 
Phoenix Life. Mr P was sold a unit linked whole of life policy with life and critical illness 
cover. The financial adviser recommended life and critical illness cover of £75,000, but Mr P 
chose to pay the minimum premium which provided almost £65,000 of cover. Mr P, 
represented by a claims management company, complained to Phoenix Life that at the time 
of the sale he didnt need the level of cover proposed as he was not married and had no 
dependents, and any business borrowing was significantly below the level of cover provided.
Phoenix Life explained that Mr P had taken out the cover to protect a business loan  
recorded as £75,000 on the personal review document it held  and that Mr P had wanted 
flexible life and critical illness cover in case his circumstances changed, for example an 
increase in borrowing. Phoenix Life thought that the policy was suitable, but Mr P said his 
business loan was for significantly less than the cover the policy provided, and the loan was 
due to be repaid over five-years. Phoenix Life said it would reconsider its position if Mr P 
could provide evidence that his business loan was for less than £75,000 and was over a five-
year term. 
Mr P brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into things and thought that Phoenix Life acted fairly and reasonably in 
recommending the policy. Mr Ps representative didnt agree with the Investigator and asked 
that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale of the policy took place over 25 years ago and Mr P no longer has any supporting 
documents relating his business loan. Therefore, my decision is based on the evidence Ive 
received, the recollections of Mr P and what I think is more likely to have happened at the 
time of the sale. I understand that Mr P will be disappointed, but for very similar reasons to 
those provided by the Investigator, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I will now 
explain why.
Phoenix Life sold the policy to Mr P in 1997 but Mr P says he didnt take out a business loan 
until mid-1998. Mr P believes that the personal review document contains incorrect 
information and that he never saw this or any other documents. Phoenix Life says it provided 
these documents to Mr P. I think its more likely than not Mr P saw the personal review and 
recommendation letter, and that he also received the key features and illustration for the 
policy. This is because although theres no signature on the personal review document, Mr P 
did sign and date a declaration confirming the information hed provided was accurate and 
that hed been provided with the documents he said he didnt receive. This declaration was 
signed several days after the personal review document. In view of the time that has passed 
since the sale, I think its reasonable for me to conclude that Mr P signing to say hed 
received these document carries more weight than his recollection that he never saw them.
Im persuaded Mr P likely saw the documents and was reasonably aware the policy could be 
used to protect a loan and, just as importantly, to provide him with protection in the event he 
suffered a critical illness. Phoenix Life recommended £75,000 of critical illness and life cover, 
but Im satisfied Mr P chose the minimum premium payable within the policy based on what 
hed agreed he could afford. This provided almost £65,000 life and critical illness cover and 
not £75,000 and it suggests to me there was a discussion about the level of critical illness 
and life cover and affordability at the time.
Theres some debate about the facts surrounding Mr Ps business loan. Mr P says the loan 
was taken out six-months after the policy was sold, but the Phoenix Life recommendation 
report suggests had a loan in place at the time of the sale. Neither Mr P nor Phoenix Life can 
provide evidence showing the amount of the loan or the date it was taken out. Regardless of 
this Im satisfied Mr P did have loan in place for a period of time when the policy was in 
effect. This is because Phoenix Life has provided a copy of documents confirming the policy 
had been assigned in mid-1998. 
Theres also some additional confusion about when Mr P started his business. Mr P has 
provided records to show he registered his business in mid-1998, but the personal review 
records that Mr P owned a business in late 1997. Regardless of when the business was 
started, or registered, it seems more likely than not that Mr P was either a business owner at 
the time of the application or was about to purchase a business. Im satisfied Mr P did take 
out a loan and that this was more likely than not discussed at the personal review, although I 
cant be sure of the term of the loan, the amount of the loan or when it started.
Ive considered Mr Ps circumstances at the time to establish if the policy was suitable. The 
personal review document and the recommendation letter persuade me that Mr P agreed a 
need for critical illness cover and life cover. Although the amount of life cover may have 
been more than the loan, it seems to me it was equally important to Mr P that he had critical 
illness cover in place. Mr P had a business, or was just about to start one, and was planning 
to take a loan  or had one in place already  so I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Phoenix Life to recommend the policy it did. If Mr P suffered a critical Illness when running a 
business, it would have a significant impact on Mr P. So, although the life cover was useful 
and the policy provided some flexibility, particularly if Mr P was planning further borrowing, it 
seems to me that the critical illness protection element on its own met Mr Ps needs at the 
time, even though he wasnt married or had any dependents. 
Mr Ps representative says that if cover was needed the cover should have been set up on 
that basis and wouldnt have been set up where the client was both the grantee and life 
assured as that doesnt benefit the business. I dont consider it would be reasonable for the 
policy to have been in the name of the business with Mr P as the life assured. Indeed, it 
seems to me that as Mr P was effectively the business, it was reasonable that he should be 
the beneficiary of the policy and the life assured. This way should Mr P suffer a critical illness 
the benefits would be paid to him directly, rather than to the business  subject to any 
assignment requirements. This would ensure Mr P would be able to use the funds to assist 
his recovery if required.
Although Mr P suggested Phoenix Life told him he couldnt have the loan if he didnt have 
this policy in place, I think this is highly unlikely to be the case. The loan was with a high 
street bank, and Ive not seen anything that links the person who sold the policy to this bank. 
I think its more likely that the lender would have made it compulsory that a life cover policy be assigned to the loan as this was quite common at the time. Taking this into account Im 
not persuaded Phoenix Life told Mr P the policy was compulsory if he wanted the loan  that 
would be for the lender to decide.
My final decision
My final decision is that the unit linked whole of life policy Phoenix Life Limited sold to Mr P 
wasnt unsuitable as it met Mr Ps agreed needs at the time.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman