DRN-3361823
The complaint
Mr. K is unhappy with the response of Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) to a complaint made 
following a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA).
What happened
In or around October 2015 Mr K was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call S 
to discuss purchasing a solar panel system. After being visited by a representative from S, 
Mr. K decided to purchase the solar panel system with a 3-year fixed sum loan agreement 
from Ikano. The solar panels were subsequently installed
In July 2019, Mr. K, via his representative, made a claim under section 75 of the CCA to 
Ikano. Mr. K said he had been told several things which werent true, and this caused him to 
enter into the contract to buy the panels. Mr K says he was told his panels would break even 
after 10 years, he would receive free electricity during the day and benefit from ongoing 
savings and feed in tariff payments. Mr K included his handover pack, his invoice, MCS 
certificate and electricity bills as part of his complaint.    
In its response Ikano said the paperwork made it clear what Mr K would have to pay under 
his finance agreement, both monthly and overall so it didnt agree that Mr K would have 
believed the panels would be self-funding. It said the panels were performing in line with the 
estimations at the time of sale and it was not upholding the complaint. 
As Mr K was unhappy with this response one of our investigators looked into his case. She 
concluded that the finance agreement made the costs to Mr K clear, and that as he was 
using the energy generated by the panels, he was in effect getting free electricity. She found 
that Mr Ks testimony about what he was told was credible, and the paperwork he had from 
the time was not enough make it clear that the panels would not be self-funding. Because of 
this she upheld the complaint and recommended that Ikano calculate the actual and likely 
benefits from the panels over 10 years, and refund to Mr K any amount he had paid over that 
plus 8 % interest from the date the loan was paid off to the date of settlement. She also 
recommended Ikano pay Mr K £100 compensation for the trouble and upset. 
Mr K accepted the investigators view and suggested resolution, but Ikano didnt. It said there 
was no evidence of any mis-representation and the paperwork made the cost of the loan, 
and the benefits clear so Mr K should have been aware that there was going to be a shortfall 
between the benefits of the panels and the monthly payments.  It also supplied a further 
document setting out the first-year benefits of the panels, which it said supported its position. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the CCA. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor.
As Mr. K paid for the solar panel system with a fixed sum loan, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr. K can claim against Ikano  the creditor  for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract in the same way he could have claimed against 
S, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr. K and 
S, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Ikano.
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities what 
I consider to be most likely what happened, given the evidence that is available and the 
wider surrounding circumstances.
Verbal evidence 
 
Mr. K says he was effectively cold called by S and during a subsequent sales meeting told 
that the solar panel system would be entirely self-financing. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr. K had previously shown an interest in solar panels before he was contacted 
by S.
Ive considered Mr Ks testimony about what happened when he spoke to S. I find his 
testimony to be credible and persuasive. Its also hard to see why Mr K would agree to the 
installation of the solar panel system, paid for by a loan, which would increase his monthly 
outgoings, given his financial circumstances. Ive also borne in mind that Mr Ks 
representatives have said that the system is likely to take 19 years to break even. This is a 
substantial period of time, and theres nothing to suggest that Mr K was looking that far 
ahead in his plans.     
Based on this, I think it is unlikely that he wouldve agreed to the solar panel system and a 
loan with Ikano unless hed been led to believe that it would be self-funding and come at no 
additional cost to him. Therefore, I accept Mr Ks version of events.
The documentation
Ive gone on to consider the paperwork that has been provided to see if there was anything 
contained within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldnt be self-funding. 
What I am considering is whether or not all the documentation Mr K had access to at the 
time of the sale would have made it evident that, despite what he says he was told, the solar panels would not be self-funding. In order for Mr K to make an informed decision about the 
benefits of the panels in relation to the overall costs to him he needed to be able to compare 
the cost of the solar panel system to any benefit he may have received or have been 
promised.
Ive considered the loan agreement. This is dated 30 October 2015, and sets out the amount 
being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and 
the contractual monthly loan repayments. Im satisfied that this is clear and there is no 
reference to the solar panel system being self-funding. 
Ive also considered the sales document, which Ikano supplied in response to the 
investigators opinion. This was not part of Mr K submissions, and while its signed, its not 
clear if the signature is Mr Ks or the sales representatives. This has a contract date of 30 
October 2015 and refers to a 2-and-a-half-hour appointment on that date. It includes details 
of the contract price, the predicted performance and the likely first year benefits. There is 
nothing showing the cost of the loan, or what the monthly repayments would be once the 12 
months interest free period had ended. If this document was shared with Mr K on the 30th, 
Im not convinced the information it contains would have led him to question what he had 
been told verbally. 
Ive reviewed the sales handover document carefully. This has information on the cost of the 
goods, the expected performance and an estimation of the likely benefits each year, and an 
accumulative total. There is no reference to the total cost of the system, including interest, or 
the monthly loan repayments. 
Im also mindful that this document is dated 17 November 2015, the time of installation. I 
have to take account that this was not available to Mr K at the time he was making his 
decision to purchase the panels, but around 2 weeks later. He did not have the opportunity 
to compare what he was being told verbally and the estimated benefits on that document at 
the same time, or before committing to buy the panels.  And I dont he had the opportunity to 
compare the true cost of the system to any benefit he might receive or had been promised.
Taking all of the above into account, I consider that the various documents provided to Mr K 
over a period of some two weeks were presented in such a way that it would have been 
difficult for him to make an informed decision without relying on what he was told by the 
representative of S. So, Im persuaded it is reasonable for Mr K to have relied on what he 
was told by the representative when he agreed to enter the contract.
Has Mr K suffered a loss?
My view is that for the solar panels to be self-funding and come at no additional cost to Mr K, 
the monthly savings and benefits he would achieve should have been sufficient to meet his 
monthly loan repayments.
It is clear from the information provided that this has not been the case and there was a 
shortfall between his monthly loan repayments and any benefits he has received from the 
solar panel system. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, I find it likely that Mr K has suffered a loss as a result 
of the misrepresentation made by S. And as Ikano has equal liability for the 
misrepresentation made by S, I find that it is responsible for Mr Ks loss.Putting things right
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at fair 
compensation taking account of the particular circumstances.
My view of Mr Ks complaint is that it isnt so much about the solar panels themselves but 
that he was led to believe that they would be self-funding. And based on this I dont think it 
would be fair or proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels from his home. 
Considering Mr Ks comments and his individual circumstances the fair outcome here is to 
put Mr K in a position where the solar panel system is cost neutral over a period of 10 years, 
meaning that hes not disadvantaged by the misrepresentation. 
So, I think Ikano should calculate the benefits Mr K has had from his system, and the likely 
benefits he will receive from the panels over 10 years from installation and ensure he pays 
no more than that. This should be calculated using Mr Ks actual FIT generation and 
electricity bills where available.  
As Mr K paid off the loan, if after this calculation is completed, it shows that Mr K has paid 
more than the estimated benefits over a 10 year period, Ikano should refund him the 
overpayment with 8% from the date of the overpayment until the date of settlement. 
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information at the time that Mr K first complained to 
Ikano that means his complaint should have been upheld. The fact that this didnt happen 
has caused him trouble and upset and consequently Ill make an award of £100 for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, I 
require Ikano Bank AB (publ) to:
allow Mr K to keep the solar panels,
estimate the potential savings and income to Mr K from the panels over a 10-
year period and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it should 
use Mr Ks electricity bills and FIT statements to do this.
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the 
overpayment was made to the date of settlement,
pay Mr K £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Ikano Bank AB (publ) considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman