DRN-3534307
The complaint
Mr H, a director of C (a limited company) complains that Bothnia International Insurance 
Company Limited unfairly declined cover for a claim he made on a legal expenses insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to Bothnia within this complaint, this includes agents and representatives 
acting on its behalf.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. Ive summarised the relevant 
points below:
C holds a Directors and Officers Liability Insurance with Bothnia.
Mr H is a director of C (indeed the sole director). He was also appointed as a director 
of a separate company, L.
L was the subject of a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) investigation. Mr H, and 
others, sought legal advice and claimed the cost of this through a policy held by L.
Ls insurer not only declined cover for the claim but voided the policy.
C paid Mr Hs legal costs and sought to claim on the policy it held with Bothnia.
Bothnia declined cover for the claim as the policy cover was intended only to operate 
in addition to primary cover.
Mr H, on behalf of C, complained. Bothnia rejected his complaint.
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator thought the complaint 
should be upheld and Bothnia should reconsider the claim.
Bothnia didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It also disputed 
whether our services jurisdiction allows us to consider the merits of the complaint.
My provisional decision
I previously issued a provisional decision which addressed our services jurisdiction to 
consider the complaint. I thought we could look at the complaint, but that one of the points 
raised by Bothnia around our services jurisdiction meant that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. 
Neither party has commented further on my determination that our services jurisdiction 
extends to the circumstances of Cs complaint, so I wont repeat what I said previously on 
this.
In the provisional decision, I went on to say:
In order for Cs claim to be successful, the amounts it paid for Mr Hs legal fees need to be 
an insured loss  in this case being costs it was entitled to indemnify Mr H for in accordance 
with its own rules and regulations. In this case, Bothnias argument around the gifting of 
these amounts is significant, and persuasive.
Cs Articles of Association say that its adopted the Model Articles of Association. These say:
Indemnity
52.(1) Subject to paragraph (2), a relevant director of the company or an 
associated company may be indemnified out of the companys assets against
(a) any liability incurred by that director in connection with any negligence, default, 
breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the company or an associated 
company, 
(b) any liability incurred by that director in connection with the activities of the 
company or an associated company in its capacity as a trustee of an occupational 
pension scheme (as defined in section 235(6) of the Companies Act 2006),
(c) any other liability incurred by that director as an officer of the company or an 
associated company.
2) This article does not authorise any indemnity which would be prohibited or 
rendered void by any provision of the Companies Acts or by any other provision of 
law.
(3) In this article
(a) companies are associated if one is a subsidiary of the other or both are 
subsidiaries of the same body corporate, and
(b) a relevant director means any director or former director of the company or an 
associated company.
Insurance
53.(1) The directors may decide to purchase and maintain insurance, at the 
expense of the company, for the benefit of any relevant director in respect of any 
relevant loss.
(2) In this article
(a) a relevant director means any director or former director of the company or an 
associated company,
(b) a relevant loss means any loss or liability which has been or may be incurred by 
a relevant director in connection with that directors duties or powers in relation to the 
company, any associated company or any pension fund or employees share scheme 
of the company or associated company, and (c) companies are associated if one is a 
subsidiary of the other or both are subsidiaries of the same body corporate.
This is relevant here because these rules indicate that C can only indemnify a director (in 
this case Mr H) for actions in relation to Cs activities, or those of an associated (as 
defined) company. And it can only take out insurance for the benefit of matters related to Cs 
activities.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that C and L are associated companies as defined by these 
Articles or the Companies Act 2006. They arent subsidiaries of the same body corporate 
and neither is one a subsidiary of the other. The only connection Im aware of is Mr Hs role 
as a director of both C and L.
These legal fees havent been incurred because of Mr Hs actions with C, but rather are in 
connection with the activities of L, and his actions there. I conclude that C wasnt entitled, in 
line with the Articles of Association, to pay Mr Hs legal fees.
As this is the case, I conclude that there was no insured loss here. And as such, Bothnia 
could fairly decline cover for the claim made by C on this basis.
The responses to my provisional decision
Bothnia made no further points in response to my provisional decision.Mr H, on behalf of C, responded. He said he didnt agree with my conclusions. It was his 
position that where the articles referenced above said a director may commit to a liability or 
purchase insurance, this didnt prohibit the company from doing so. He also said that brokers 
hadnt said that the articles of association may have required amending in order for the 
insurance taken out by C to be effective. 
Mr H also referred to Article 3 of the model articles, which said that he exercised all the 
powers of C as its director, and Article 7 which allowed him to make any decision for the 
company. He also referred to Article 20 which allowed C to pay any reasonable expenses of 
a director in the discharge of its responsibilities to the company.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the points made by Mr H in response to my provisional decision, but 
Im not minded to alter my findings. I remain satisfied that Bothnia can fairly decline cover for 
Cs claim. My original findings around the limitations arising from the model articles remains 
unchanged, so Ill address Mr Hs points here.
Mr H has made reference to information which was disclosed to brokers who acted as an 
intermediary when C took out the policy, and whether they should have advised him to 
change the articles of association. I cant comment on what happened. This complaint is 
about Bothnia as the insurer, and its decision to decline cover on the claim. Any issues with 
the way the policy was sold, or the conduct of intermediaries would need to be directed to 
them in the first instance. Their conduct isnt of relevance to my decision here.
With respect to the obligations, or limitations, placed on C by the inclusion of may in the 
articles, Im not persuaded that Mr H makes a reasonable argument that the articles dont 
limit C (and its representatives) from taking on liabilities or taking out insurance. 
In the absence of any definitions of the words in the articles, I need to consider the normal 
and ordinary of them. I think its fair to say that the articles should be interpreted to mean 
that the company (in this case C) isnt obliged to assume liabilities or take out insurance, but 
that if it does so then they the liabilities and insurance policies need to be in relation to Cs 
activities as set out in the articles  and as Ive concluded above, the outside liabilities 
section of the policy wasnt compliant with the articles. Mr H would appear to accept this as 
he hasnt sought to say that the insurance policy was compliant with the articles Ive 
referenced, but that other articles gave him the power to take out the relevant cover.
Mr H has referenced other articles in the model articles. Ive looked at these. Hes referred to  
Article 3 which says:
3. Subject to the articles, the directors are responsible for the management of the 
companys business, for which purpose they may exercise all the powers of the 
company.
My interpretation of this is that the directors are given the power to manage the companys 
activities, but that their powers are limited to what is permitted by the articles of association 
and other law and relevant guidelines. It doesnt provide a power to act outside of the articles 
on a discretionary basis.
Mr H also refers to Article 7, which says:7.(1) The general rule about decision-making by directors is that any decision of 
the directors must be either a majority decision at a meeting or a decision taken in  
accordance with article 8.
(2) If
(a) the company only has one director, and
(b) no provision of the articles requires it to have more than one director,
the general rule does not apply, and the director may take decisions without regard to 
any of the provisions of the articles relating to directors decision-making.
In Cs case, with Mr H as the sole director, this means Mr H can take actions on its behalf 
unilaterally. However, I cant see anything in this which allows him to take actions which 
arent permitted by the articles of association.
Finally, Mr H refers to Article 20, which says:
20. The company may pay any reasonable expenses which the directors properly incur 
in connection with their attendance at
(a) meetings of directors or committees of directors,
(b) general meetings, or
(c) separate meetings of the holders of any class of shares or of debentures of the 
company, or otherwise in connection with the exercise of their powers and the discharge 
of their responsibilities in relation to the company.
This doesnt permit C to pay any reasonable expenses incurred by Mr H, as he has 
suggested, but rather the expenses incurred by Mr H in attending meetings in relation to Cs 
activities  and as Ive covered elsewhere, the legal expenses were incurred in relation to Ls 
activities. 
Im not persuaded that any of the articles referred to by Mr H give him the power to take out 
insurance which isnt for the benefit of C  which is what the outside liabilities section of the 
policy did. For the reasons Ive outlined previously, this wasnt an insured loss and as such 
Bothnias position that theres no cover on the policy is reasonable.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman