DRN-2446974
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy that Assurant General Insurance Limited trading as Barclays, has 
declined a claim she made for stolen items under her gadget insurance policy.
All references to Barclays will include Assurant (the insurer) as well as its agents.
What happened
On 26 April 2021 I issued my provisional decision setting out my initial findings. In this, whilst 
I didnt think Barclays declining the claim was unfair, I was minded to award Miss R a further 
£70 for the distress and inconvenience caused by delays during the claims process.
Barclays didnt respond to my provisional findings. Miss R did respond. She disagreed with 
the outcome but didnt provide any further evidence to support her case.
My provisional decision set out the following background to this complaint:
In August 2020 Miss R made a claim under her Tech Pack insurance policy (the policy) that 
she had with Barclays. The policy covered for loss, theft, damage and breakdown of up to 
£1,500 for mobile phones and other gadgets such as laptops and tablets.
Miss Rs belongings including a laptop and camera, were stolen from her car when she was 
on holiday in Spain. Miss R said at the time of the theft, her belongings were in the boot of 
her car which was locked and in a secure car park. And that the car was unattended for 
about 40-45 minutes whilst she looked for a hotel. Miss R said that when she returned to the 
car, the glove box was open but there were no other signs of her car being tampered with. 
The Spanish police report noted thered been no apparent damage to Miss Rs car. It further 
noted that Miss R had said she had locked the car properly. Miss R told Barclays the police 
had mentioned to her the theft could have been carried out by a gang using specialist 
equipment (magnetic/ electronic reader).
After initially accepting Miss Rs claim and taking £75 excess from her, Barclays reversed its 
decision. Barclays said as there was no evidence of forced entry, or evidence of the car 
being unlocked by the thieves using an electronic device, it declined the claim. Barclays 
relied on its terms where it says the following isnt covered (bold emphasis is in the policy 
document):
We know how important your device is to you and we expect that you will take care 
of it. If you dont take care of your device then we may not pay your claim. Taking care 
of your device means   Not knowingly leaving your device somewhere it is likely to be lost, 
stolen or damaged. Just think, would you leave your wallet or purse there?  If you need to 
leave your device somewhere then we expect you to lock it away out of sight if at all 
possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must leave it with someone you trust or 
concealed out of sight in a safe place.
Barclays said the claim was initially accepted on its website by mistake. It apologised for this 
and also for one of its agents not calling Miss R back as she requested. It awarded her £30 
for these mistakes.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the policy was clear in what was 
required for the theft to be covered. And the belongings being locked away and out of sight, 
were key component of this. Our investigator felt it was reasonable for Barclays to expect the 
police report to explain either that there was damage to the car, or for it to highlight there 
were thieves operating in the area who were using electronic devices to gain access to cars. 
Miss R disagreed. She said there were language barriers which meant the police didnt 
record everything that was discussed. She added her car automatically locks if left unlocked 
for a period of time. Miss R said she felt the term detailed in the policy is unfair.
The matter has been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address this complaint further, as I said in my provisional decision, I wish to send 
Miss R my deepest condolences. Im aware that dealing with her complaint in light of her 
brothers death this year, has been particularly difficult for her.
As there has been no further evidence from either party, my provisional decision remains the 
same for the same reasons. Ill set out the relevant extract from my provisional findings 
which now forms part of my final decision:
The above term means that Miss R has cover for theft of her gadgets in certain 
circumstances. If those conditions arent met, then there is no cover available under the 
policy.
Miss R has told us that the car was parked in a public car park whilst on holiday in Spain. 
She said the car park was secure in that it had security guards at the entry and exit point. 
She says when she returned to her car after around 40 minutes, there was no damage to it 
but her belongings had been stolen.
Its well known that there are devices that can be used to tamper with the locking mechanism 
of a car. So it is possible that this is why Miss Rs car was unlocked when the thieves took 
the contents from the boot of her car. However, its also possible that the car wasnt locked 
properly by its owner when it was left.
Miss R hasnt said what type of mechanism was used  she may not know this. But it would 
seem from what she said, it was a magnetic device and that this interfered with the locking 
mechanism of her car. This would mean that when she thought she locked the car the 
thieves had managed to interfere with this happening, so were able to gain entry to the 
unlocked car.
I consider information about what discussions took place between Miss R and the Spanish 
police, could reasonably have been missing (from the police report) due to language barriers 
or simply by mistake. However, Miss R says when she returned to her car it was locked. For 
this to happen, the thieves would have had to use the electronic device to not only open the 
car but also to lock it before leaving the area. Im not persuaded that in this type of situation, those stealing from a car wouldve been able to, or be inclined to, re-lock the car once theyd 
finished.
I know Miss R says her car locks automatically once left unlocked for a certain period of time 
 this would explain why it was locked when she returned. But Ive looked at the manual for 
the make and model of her car and I cant see the automatic locking system works in this 
way. It does automatically lock when the owner is in the vehicle with the key and drives for 
few seconds, but it doesnt lock when the person with the key simply walks away. 
Its clear in this case that there was no damage to the car when the items were taken. This 
makes it seem likely that the car wasnt locked when the items were stolen. There is no 
cover for that situation under the policy. Where it seemed plausible that the car was 
unlocked because of some kind of electronic interference with the cars locking mechanism, I 
might find that there was cover available under the policy. However, Im not persuaded in the 
circumstances that it is more likely than not that such interference did occur. I note what 
Miss R says about security guards being at the car park. But I dont think this meant it was 
secure enough to leave valuables in an unlocked car, in a public car park.
For all these reasons, whilst I know that this will disappoint Miss R, I dont consider that 
Barclays was unreasonable in declining her claim. Miss R says the terms of the policy are 
unfair, but this is the terms under which the policy is offered. In her case, I consider the 
terms have been applied fairly.
I do, however, think Barclays caused delays when investigating Miss Rs claim. After initially 
accepting her claim it then declined this following a call with Miss R. But it was two weeks 
after this call before Barclays asked for a police report. And it took almost two months before 
the police report was translated into English and a final conclusion on Miss Rs claim was 
reached. I think Barclays caused Miss R unnecessary distress and inconvenience by only 
investigating further when she chased matters up. For the way it handled Miss Rs claim, Im 
intending to award Miss R a further £70 for the trouble and upset caused. This will bring the 
total compensation to £100 including the £30 Barclays has already paid.
For all these reasons, I am upholding the complaint in part.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and I order Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay Miss R 
a total of £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused deducting the £30 its paid to her 
so far.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman