DRN-4426764
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about a travel insurance policy with Great Lakes Insurance UK 
Limited. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in February 2023, Mr and Mrs P bought a single trip travel 
insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes to cover a trip from 5 June 2023 to           
12 June 2023. They paid a premium of £128.42. The policy covered Mrs Ps pre-existing 
medical conditions. Great Lakes excluded cover for Mr Ps pre-existing conditions as he 
was waiting for medical investigations at the time. Great Lake asked Mr P to contact it 
when those investigations were complete. 
In March 2023, Mr Ps medical investigations were complete. He contacted Great Lakes 
about his cover. It quoted an additional £188.57 to cover Mr Ps three pre-existing 
medical conditions, bringing the total premium to £316.99. Mr and Mrs P paid the 
additional amount but werent happy about that and pursued their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs P think that theyve been overcharged in relation to Mr Ps pre-existing 
medical conditions. They say that the increase they were asked to pay was higher than 
the increase they paid for a policy for a trip to a different destination on an earlier date 
and that the total premium was more than theyd have to pay with another insurer. Mr P 
generated a new quote from Great Lakes for the same trip and was offered a lower 
premium. 
Mr and Mrs P also complain about how Great Lakes handled their complaint. They want 
Great Lakes to answer their e-mail of 18 March 2023 and provide them with a 
breakdown of the premium in relation to Mr Ps pre-existing medical conditions, refund 
any overcharged amount and pay compensation of £70 in relation to poor 
communication. 
 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that insurers are free to 
decide how much to charge for policies, as long as they exercise their judgement fairly 
and consistently. The investigator looked at confidential, commercially sensitive  
information Great Lakes had provided about how it calculated the premium. She said 
that the main factor in the overall rise in premium was Mr Ps pre-existing medical 
conditions. The investigator thought that Great Lakes had calculated Mr and Mrs Ps 
premium fairly. 
The investigator didnt think it was reasonable to compare premiums with the different 
policies to which Mr and Mrs P had referred, as there are several different factors 
producing a different risk score. 
The investigator said that Great Lakes made it clear that it would charge an 
administration fee in certain circumstances. She said that it had explained to                  
Mr and Mrs P the factors it considers when pricing its travel insurance policies and that it 
responded to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint in a timely and reasonable way.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with the investigator. Mr P responded to say that the 
investigator hadnt considered properly the part of their complaint about Great Lakes 
handling of their complaint. Mr and Mrs P didnt think Great Lakes had treated them fairly 
and reasonably. They asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was 
passed to me to decide. 
Mr and Mrs P are clearly concerned about how Great Lakes handled their complaint. Our 
service can only consider complaints about financial services. So, I cant consider the 
additional points that Mr and Mrs P have raised about the handling of their complaint 
because complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. I realise that Mr and Mrs P will be 
disappointed by this, but I cant act outside my legal powers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The central question for me to decide is whether Great Lakes acted fairly and reasonably in 
its pricing of Mr and Mrs Ps premium for the single trip policy about which they complain.  
Given the significant increased amount Mr and Mrs P were asked to pay, I can understand 
their concerns. However, this service isnt the industry regulator, and we have no power to 
direct an insurer to reduce a premium. Its not my role to tell an insurer what price is should 
charge for the risks its policies cover, nor what factors is should take into account in 
assessing those risks. In general terms, its for an insurer to decide what risks it wants to 
cover and what premium to charge to cover those risks. Our general approach is that, 
providing they treat people fairly, insurers are entitled to decide what premium covers a risk.
Insurers consider many factors when setting premiums. When deciding how much to charge 
for their policies they will assess the likelihood of a policyholder making a claim and how 
much they might have to pay out for those claims. And each insurer will go about that in its 
own way. Its for Great Lakes to decide which factors it wishes to take into account. 
As the investigator explained, Great Lakes has provided this service with some information 
to explain how it calculated Mr and Mrs Ps premium. Im afraid I cant share that information 
with Mr and Mrs P. This service doesnt think its unreasonable for insurers not to share with 
policyholders sensitive commercial information showing how it calculates premiums. Thats 
because the information could be used by competitors to gain a commercial advantage. I 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs P accept that.
Ive looked carefully at the information Great Lakes has provided. Im satisfied that the 
premium Great Lakes charged Mr and Mrs P was calculated correctly. Ive seen nothing to 
indicate that Mr and Mrs P were treated less favourably than other policyholders in a similar 
position. I dont think that Great Lakes calculated Mr and Mrs Ps premium unfairly. Premium 
setting is essentially a matter of commercial judgement and not something with which we 
would usually think its fair to interfere.
I note that Mr and Mrs P say that soon after they paid the additional amount to Great Lakes, 
they got a cheaper quote for a comparable policy from another insurer. Each insurer will 
have its own approach to assessing risk and offer different terms. That may well lead to 
different premiums. And in this case, the cover from the other insurer would have been for a 
shorter period than Mr and Mrs Ps policy, which started in February 2023. Mr and Mrs P have also referred to a much smaller increase they were asked to pay on 
another single trip policy with Great Lakes. I understand that on that policy, some of Mr Ps 
pre-existing conditions were already covered. And the destination of the trip and the 
remaining period of cover were different too. Those factors would have led to a much smaller 
increase in the premium.
Mr and Mrs P say that they obtained an on-line comparable quote from Great Lakes for a 
lower premium. The period of cover for that quote would have been shorter than the period 
of cover of the policy about which Mr and Mrs P complain. 
Its not unusual or unfair for insurers to charge different amounts for different channels of 
business. I dont think its necessarily unfair for an insurer to charge less when the cost of 
doing business is lower. I accept what Mr and Mrs P say about being directed to call       
Great Lakes, rather than continuing their purchase online. That was because their purchase 
wasnt straight forward, given Mr Ps awaited medical investigations. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Great Lakes treated Mr and Mrs P unfairly 
or unreasonably.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman