DRN-3212269
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy about how Gresham Insurance Company Limited (Gresham) dealt with a 
subsidence claim she made under her home insurance policy. 
Mrs S is supported by Mr S in making her complaint however, for ease in this decision, I will 
only refer to Mrs S.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
again here. 
Mrs S made a subsidence claim to Gresham as she had noticed some cracking in her 
property. Another subsidence claim has been made some years previously and Mrs S said 
that she thought it hadnt been dealt with correctly as the trees causing the damage on this 
occasion should have been removed then. Mrs S made several complaints during the course 
of the claim which Gresham responded to. These covered issues such as how the claim was 
being handled, the fact the trees had not previously been removed, the service shed 
received from case handlers, including how theyd spoken to Mr S, the repairs Gresham 
were proposing to cover and the fact it was not offering renewal of the policy. 
Mrs S also said she was unhappy Gresham were proposing to settle the current claim by 
paying a cash settlement. It was suggested that her complaints would be resolved if 
Gresham paid the value of what she believes her property had been devalued by, because 
of the subsidence issues.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said that some of the matters Mrs S was 
unhappy about couldnt be considered by this service as Gresham had previously provided 
its final response on those matters, and Mrs S had brought her complaint to this service too 
late for them to be considered. 
The investigator reviewed the remaining issues and confirmed to Mrs S that Gresham hadnt 
done anything wrong in the way it had settled the claim. It was entitled to pay in cash to 
Mrs S the value of what it would have cost it, had it completed the repairs itself. She also 
pointed out the policy specifically excludes payments for decreased property values.
Mrs S remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She reiterated her 
dissatisfaction with the journey of both the claims, the repairs she believes should have been 
covered and the poor service received from the case handlers.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Some of the complaints Mrs S has made about Gresham have been referred to this 
service too late for them to be considered. And this service hasnt been made aware 
of any exceptional circumstances which prevented them from being raised earlier. It 
is my decision that Mrs Ss complaints about how the previous claim was handled, 
whether the trees should have been cut down earlier, the service received up to 
November 2019 and Greshams decision not to offer renewal of the policy arent 
ones this service can consider now. 
The policy does not provide cover for a payment to be made in respect of the 
devaluation of a property. In any event, I wouldnt see this as a reasonable 
settlement in this case, as this subsidence claim is capable of being settled in the 
normal way.
Gresham have paid to Mrs S the cash value of covering the works and repairs 
associated with this episode of subsidence. In the circumstances of this claim it is 
reasonable for Gresham to only pay the value it would have needed to pay out had it 
of undertaken the repairs itself.  If Mrs S was charged VAT when having the repairs 
completed, she would need to provide evidence of this to Gresham for it to be 
considered.
Gresham has explained why repairs to the patio, fence and other areas are not 
covered under the policy which I think is reasonable. Should Mrs S disagree then she 
would need to provide Gresham with an opinion from a suitably qualified person for it 
to consider further.
Mrs S has complained about how Mr S was spoken to by case handlers and that 
calls were terminated. However, having reviewed the telephone notes I can see the 
calls were unproductive and the progression of the claim and complaint had already 
been explained to Mr S. While I appreciate Mr S may have been frustrated by what 
he was being told, I dont think it was unreasonable for the call handlers to terminate 
calls in those circumstances
The property has been affected by two separate episodes of subsidence and 
therefore it is correct for Gresham to treat the claims separately.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Gresham Insurance 
Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman