DRN-3155132
The complaint
Miss C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) applied interest to her 
account after a debt repayment plan was agreed. 
What happened
Miss C complained to NatWest that it had charged interest on her account from January 
2020 when she says it had agreed it wouldnt following a £5 a month repayment plan being 
agreed in 2011 on her outstanding overdraft debt. 
NatWest agreed to uphold Miss Cs complaint because of the time that has passed it 
couldnt establish what was agreed with its collections team. Miss C started being charged 
interest from January 2020 and NatWest agreed to refund the interest payments from here 
until the last charging period. But said from this point she would have to cover the monthly 
interest applied to the overdraft debt. Miss C was unhappy with this  she says charging 
interest on the account goes against what was agreed with its collections team. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Cs concerns and reached the conclusion that 
NatWest hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss C unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Miss C disagreed, so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. 
Miss C is unhappy that NatWest is continuing to apply interest to her account after it was 
agreed it wouldnt.  
Due to the of time that has passed NatWest have not been able to establish what was 
agreed with collections so it agreed to refund interest charged from January 2020 until the 
next charging period following which interest will be charged. It says that if Miss C was told 
that interest wouldnt be charged that it was a mistake on its part and that usually the interest 
free perks wouldve come to an end on Miss Cs student account in 2012. But this didnt 
happen until January 2020. 
NatWest have provided a sample of the letter it says wouldve been sent notifying Miss C 
about her student account being moved to a select account in December 2019 and the 
charges going forward. Without any evidence to the contrary I think its likely Miss C received 
this letter and was given adequate notice of the charges that would apply from this point 
onwards.   
And as NatWest has already refunded the interest charged, I think that NatWest has done 
enough.  I havent considered whether NatWests charges going forward are fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at NatWests various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss C if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Miss Cs account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Miss C was experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
From what Ive seen of Miss Cs bank statements there is nothing to suggest this is the case 
 indeed the account is no longer being used by Miss C. The only transactions being the 
monthly repayment by Miss C for the funds Miss C spent and benefitted from and NatWests 
charges for providing the overdraft facility. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that its unreasonable for NatWest to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
and I dont think NatWest treated Miss C unfairly or unreasonably which means that Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision 
before 16 November 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman