DRN-3675265
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with how Ascent Performance Group Limited have handled the 
management of a debt.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings were set out in my provisional 
decision to both parties. For ease, this is copied below and forms part of this final decision.
Provisional Decision 
On 5 May 2008 a secured personal loan was arranged between Mr and Mrs D and a finance
provider Ill call Company W. The loan was for £15,390 to be repaid over 180 months with
monthly payments of £283.23. The loan was secured on Mr and Mrs Ds home, which Ill
refer to as Address V.
In July 2014 Company W sold the outstanding debt of £15,039.53 to Company C.
Ascent was asked by Company C in April 2016 to take over management of the debt.
Ascent say they were unsuccessful in trying to get Mr and Mrs D to engage with them about
the debt and so they submitted a claim to court in February 2017. Mr and Mrs D defended
the claim to say they had no documentation in relation to the debt and they requested
original loan documentation from Ascent. There is little detail from Mr and Mrs D about what
happened after 2017. And Ascents records show their attempts to obtain information from
their client, Company C.
Ascent have said that on 20 January 2020 Mr and Mrs D were issued with a letter which
referenced enclosing a copy of the loan agreement and a default notice dated 2 July 2011
(which I have not seen a copy of)  so they say Mr and Mrs D were provided with information
about the debt.
A few months later, on 21 May 2020 Mr and Mrs D were sent separate letters from Ascents
legal department to say the debt had been satisfied. However, Mr and Mrs D say Ascent
contacted them again on 1 July 2020 requesting that they complete an income and
expenditure form in relation to the debt. Given the letters theyd received, Mr and Mrs D
contacted Ascent to query the request for an income and expenditure form. Ascent then
confirmed the satisfaction letters had been sent in error. Around this time a statement of the
account was also sent to Mr and Mrs D to show the payments made towards the debt.
Mr and Mrs D told Ascent the debt was statute barred, but Ascent disagreed with this as they
said payment had been made towards the debt in 2014 and a legal claim had been raised in
2017. In reply, Mr and Mrs D disagreed and said they wanted proof the debt was
enforceable. They also said mistakes were being made around the payment dates Ascent
was referring to.
As a resolution couldnt be reached, Mr and Mrs D asked our service to review Ascents
investigation and told us the account had been poorly managed, with Ascent not
acknowledging their mistakes. Mr and Mrs D said they wanted the account closed.
In their submissions to this service, amongst other things, Ascent said the debt was not
statute barred as the loan was secured.
There were several exchanges between all parties during the course of our investigators
review of the complaint, and rather than repeat them in detail here, Ive provided a summary.
Our investigator concluded Ascent could have better handled their engagement with Mr and
Mrs D about the debt. One of the reasons our investigator gave was that Ascent should have
told Mr and Mrs D sooner that the debt was not statute barred because it was secured. To
recognise the overall poor handling of events in relation to the debt, our investigator said
Ascent should pay Mr and Mrs D £225. However, the investigator said the debt was still
outstanding and it wasnt unfair for Ascent to approach Mr and Mrs D for payment of the
debt. Ascent agreed to the investigators findings, but Mr and Mrs D did not.
Mr and Mrs D could not accept that the debt should still be paid given how they felt theyd
been treated. They said administrative errors by Company C and Ascent went back to 2014
and there had been systemic failures. Mr and Mrs D said that aside from this debt, theyd
managed to engage with all their other creditors in 2013/2014 when they were struggling
financially and had tried repeatedly to communicate with Ascent. Mr and Mrs D felt the
business was profiting after all this time and it was unfair to chase the debt now.
Mr and Mrs D also raised concerns about how Ascent had handled matters with the court in
2017 and were unhappy that it had taken until 2019 for Company C to place their charge on
the property  which Mr and Mrs D said was done without their knowledge.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill begin by explaining that while the above is only a summary of whats happened, Ive
reviewed all the available submissions. Im aware Mr and Mrs D have raised various
complaint points, but Im not required to answer each individual point, rather it is for me to
decide what is a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. And as our investigator has
previously explained to Mr and Mrs D, their concerns about Ascents legal claim in 2017 and
the charge registered against their home should be taken up separately and against the
responsible entity.
So to be clear, this decision is only concerned with Ascents actions in relation to this
complaint. And any new complaints Mr and Mrs D may now have about Ascent should be
directed to Ascent as separate matters to be considered.
It may also help Mr and Mrs D to know were not the regulator of financial businesses, so we
dont fine or punish businesses or monitor how they are operating in general. Thats the job
of the Financial Conduct Authority. We are also not a court, so this office cannot say if a law
has been breached or interfere with the courts business. Our role is to resolve individual
disputes between firms and their customers.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the concerns Mr and Mrs D have raised about Ascents general handling of
the debt.
Ascent took over management of the debt in April 2016. Their records show unsuccessfulattempts to engage with Mr and Mrs D about the debt, including speaking to Mr D on the
phone where the notes suggest he hung up on Ascent.
The claim form papers were issued on 8 February 2017. Mr and Mrs D defended the claim,
and Ascent say they sought further documentation from Mr and Mrs D  without success 
and they tried to contact Company C, their client, for further documentation about the debt.
To date, I am not aware that a county court judgement (CCJ) has been registered. I would
also note that Mr and Mrs Ds defence at this time made no mention of the statute of
limitations as they suggested to our investigator.
Ascents correspondence references that a copy of the loan agreement and default notice
were sent to Mr and Mrs D in a letter dated 8 January 2020. And on 7 August 2020 theres
reference to an email attaching a statement of the account, which shows the last payment
towards the account was made on 6 July 2014, for £10. So, I think information was provided
to Mr and Mrs D about the debt  albeit it took some time for this to reach Mr and Mrs D.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ds frustration in terms of trying to obtain information from Ascent
about the debt. And from what Ive seen, I think Ascent could have kept Mr and Mrs D better
informed about what was happening after submitting the claim to the court in 2017.
However, I have also seen no records of Mr and Mrs D attempting to contact Ascent for
information or record of them engaging with Ascent about the debt to sort the matter out as
they have suggested.
Ascent accept the letters of satisfaction were issued in error and they apologised for this as it
hadnt been possible to stop them from being sent. I think if Ascent had known beforehand
that they could not stop the letters from being issued, then it would have been good
customer service to let Mr and Mrs D know what had happened in order to better manage
Mr and Mrs Ds expectations - so I think Ascents actions in relation to these letters was
unhelpful.
I realise receiving these letters wouldve raised Mr and Mrs Ds expectations that they would
no longer be contacted about the debt. However, having reviewed the letters Im also mindful
the letters referred to a payment being made, but there was then no detail of the sum paid to
satisfy the debt and no date was given to confirm when such a payment was made - these
parts of the letters dont appear to have been completed. I think it follows that its reasonable
to assume Mr and Mrs D wouldve known if theyd made a payment to clear and satisfy the
debt. And I think its also reasonable to question what may have led Mr and Mrs D to believe
the debt would be settled without any payment.
Ive also considered that while it was unhelpful for these letters to have been sent to Mr and
Mrs D, the request for an income and expenditure form was made on 1 July 2020, so it
appears any confusion around the debt still being outstanding was not prolonged.
It might also help Mr and Mrs D to note that it doesnt automatically follow that because the
letters of satisfaction were issued, that the loan should therefore be considered satisfied. So
simply because theres been a misrepresentation, it doesnt automatically follow that to put
things right the misrepresentation should be treated as if it were true.
Mr and Mrs D have made submissions about the last payment dates. And it does appear
there were two last payment dates highlighted to Mr and Mrs D by Ascent  which I think
was once more unhelpful information for Mr and Mrs D. As noted earlier, a statement of the
account to support when the last payment was made was eventually provided to Mr and
Mrs D for their information.Mr and Mrs D told our investigator they didnt know about the charge on the property and
they say this is something Ascent shouldve told them during Ascents investigation. But the
charge was Company W, and then Company Cs responsibility. I would note that the loan
agreement provided to Mr and Mrs D showed at the top of the agreement the loan was
secured on Address V.
Taking everything above so far into account, I think there were times Ascent could have
been clearer with Mr and Mrs D regarding information about this debt.
Reviewing all the submissions I can see Mr and Mrs D have challenged knowing anything
about this debt as theyve said they had no records and theyve asked for it to be closed.
They also asked Ascent for evidence the debt was enforceable. More recently, I can see
theyve told us theyre not trying to remove the debt, they just believe its unfair that they
should still be pursued for the debt  mainly due to their view about how Ascent have treated
them.
The evidence submitted includes a copy of the loan agreement which is signed by Mr and
Mrs D and the application for the loan shows that the funds were, in part, being used to clear
mortgage arrears. Other available evidence shows documents relating to registering a
charge against Address V when the loan was first taken out, and Mrs D signing an
occupiers waiver form.
I realise Mr and Mrs Ds submissions have hinted at saying this is not their debt, but based
on the available evidence I think its reasonable for Ascent to conclude this is Mr and Mrs Ds
debt. So having established I think its reasonable to say this debt belongs to Mr and Mrs D,
Ive next considered whether Ascent can fairly seek repayment from Mr and Mrs D.
As Ive already explained above, I dont think the satisfaction letters wrongly sent out in May
2020 are enough to say the debt should no longer be payable. And I dont believe its
reasonable in this case to conclude any poor customer service should equate to writing off
the debt.
During this matter, Mr and Mrs D have said they believe the debt to be statute barred.
Its not for this service to say whether a loan is enforceable or whether it is statute barred 
only the court can decide that. As Im unaware that the court has ruled on these matters for
Mr and Mrs D, Im satisfied I can comment on whats happened as I wont be interfering with
the courts business - but I can only consider what I think is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this case. If it later comes to light the court has issued any direction on
these matters, I will have to review my involvement with this part of the complaint.
Im aware our investigator, along with Ascent, said the debt was not statute barred because
it was secured, but I believe they have mis-directed themselves here.
Secured debts are not excluded from the statute of limitations, but there are some
differences to note between these types of debts and other types of debt. The statutory limits
for secured and unsecured debts are not the same. The law allows six years for unsecured
debts and twelve years for secured debts (albeit in the latter case there is industry-wide
acceptance that six years is good practice). The limitation period starts from the date the
borrower last made a payment or acknowledged the debt in some way.
As the available statement shows, the last payment made towards the debt was 6 July 2014.
Ascent have been trying to contact Mr and Mrs D about this debt since they took over
management of it in 2016, and they issued a claim to the court in February 2017. Theseactions all fall within the six-year period from the date of the last payment. Ive also noted
that the claim to the court is within six years of the default notice Ascent have said is dated 2
July 2011.
From what Ive seen so far, I think its fair to say this debt belongs to Mr and Mrs D. And I
believe its reasonable for Ascent to engage with Mr and Mrs D to arrange repayment of this
debt.
Im aware Ascent have already agreed with our investigator to pay Mr and Mrs D £225 to
recognise that the debt could have been better managed.
While I think its fair to say Mr and Mrs D have a responsibility to engage with Ascent about
the debt, Ascents error with sending the letters of satisfaction was unhelpful as I realise this
would have given some expectation to Mr and Mrs D that the matter was resolved and it
would have been upsetting to have been told otherwise. So I think its reasonable for Ascent
to pay something to recognise the upset this would have caused Mr and Mrs D. Ascent have
already agreed to pay Mr and Mrs D £225 to settle this complaint - I think this is a fair sum
given the circumstances of this case, as it is more than I would be minded to award in the
circumstances.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Both parties were invited to provide any further comments or evidence for me to consider in 
reply to my provisional decision. 
Ascent replied to my provisional decision and confirmed they had nothing further to add. 
Mr and Mrs D did not reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there are no further submissions for me to consider, I see no reason to alter the 
conclusions as set out in my provisional findings above. 
That is, I think based on the submissions available to me I think it fair to say this debt 
belongs to Mr and Mrs D and it is reasonable for Ascent to engage with Mr and Mrs D about 
repayment of the debt. 
And while Mr and Mrs D have a responsibility to engage with Ascent about the debt, Ascent 
should pay Mr and Mrs D £225 to recognise that issuing the letters of satisfaction was 
unhelpful and caused upset to Mr and Mrs D for the reasons described above. 
Putting things right
If they have not already done so, Ascent Performance Group Limited should pay Mr and  
Mrs D £225. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint and Ascent Performance Group Limited 
should pay Mr and Mrs D £225. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman