DRN-3412580
The complaint
Mr I complains about Family Equity Plan Limited trading as OneFamily (OneFamily) as he 
is unhappy hes been unable to transfer some of his money to another provider.
What happened
Mr I believes he opened two separate and different ISAs online (which were branded with a 
high street name, but provided by OneFamily) in 2020. Mr I believes he opened one fixed 
rate ISA in March 2020, which was due to end in March 2021. And he also believes he 
opened another fixed rate ISA in May 2020, and was due to end in May 2022.
Mr I says his intention was to transfer the funds from the March 2020 product to another 
provider once it matured, while keeping the May 2020 product with OneFamily.
Mr I, complained to OneFamily as he was unable to do what he planned. OneFamily 
responded explaining that customers can only have one Online ISA, but they can open 
multiple separate products within the ISA. They also explained that partial transfers to 
another provider arent allowed, and that it isnt possible to transfer out individual products in 
his account.
OneFamily went onto explain Mr Is options, which were either to transfer his ISA in full with 
a breakage fee charged, leave his ISA as it is, or move funds from his holding account into a 
new product within his online ISA. Mr I also had the option to withdraw the matured funds 
within his holding account in to his bank account, but in doing so, it would lose its ISA status. 
Mr I chose to withdraw his matured funds.
Mr I, unhappy with OneFamilys response, referred his complaint to our service. Mr I 
believes OneFamily has incorrectly combined two ISAs into two products under one ISA. He 
believes it is not a partial transfer he is attempting to make, but a maturing of an ISA that is 
eligible for transfer.
Our investigator found that OneFamily didnt need to do anything further in this instance. She 
explained that she reviewed the terms of the ISA and the information provided to Mr I, and 
dont think OneFamily acted unfairly. She also explained that the ISA was taken out online, 
in a non-advised basis.
Mr I, unhappy with the investigators view, asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. And so it has been passed to me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
It isnt in dispute that Mr I took out the ISA (or, as Mr I believes, ISAs) online. It also isnt in 
dispute the ISA was taken out by Mr I on a non-advised basis. This meant it was up to Mr I 
to make an informed decision on the information available to him on whether the product he 
was taking out was right for him. So, I need to be satisfied that the information Mr I should 
have had when he took out the ISA was enough for him to make an informed decision and 
that OneFamily have acted fairly.
OneFamily has sent us a copy of the Key Information Pack, which also holds the terms and 
conditions for Mr Is ISA product. Mr I also sent a copy to our service, so Im satisfied he has 
had sight of this document. OneFamily have also sent us a copy of the messages Mr I 
received about the maturity of the products within his ISA. Theyve also provided 
screenshots of the application process Mr I would have seen online.
The Key Information Pack says on its second page under a section called What is the 
Online ISA that You will only have one Online ISA with us, but you can open multiple 
products in your account.. The terms and conditions also explain that transfers to another 
ISA must be the full balance and you cannot transfer individual products held in your Online 
ISA.
I have also noted that the online application process Mr I would have completed prompts him 
to carefully read the Summary Box, which is a brief overview of the key facts and terms of 
the product being taken out. The summary box states, If you already hold an Online ISA 
with us, you will not be able to open another one. It goes on to say, Transfers: Partial 
transfers are not permitted, and you will not be able to transfer individual products held in 
your Online ISA. You can, however, transfer your Online ISA in full to another ISA at any 
time.. Mr I would have needed to confirm he read the summary box before proceeding with 
his application.
Mr I says he believed he had opened two separate and two different ISAs online with 
OneFamily in 2020. He says this as he transferred the funds of two separate ISAs at two 
different times, and they were both to mature at different times.
While I appreciate Mr Is comments and why he felt he was taking out two separate ISAs, 
Ive also taken in to regard the information he had available to him when he took out the 
products with OneFamily. The products were taken out on a non-advised basis. He also 
actively ticked a box confirming he had read the summary box. And as I can see OneFamily 
made it clear only one Online ISA can be taken out with them, but multiple products can, I 
cant fairly say OneFamily are to blame here.
Mr I has since withdrawn some of his funds and as a result those funds has lost its ISA 
status. However, I have noted in the correspondence OneFamily had sent Mr I on next steps 
when his product was nearing maturity, it says, Please note that partial transfers are not 
permitted.Any Fixed Rate products within your Online ISA that are still within their fixed 
term will be subject to a breakage charge. I have also seen correspondence OneFamily 
had sent Mr I explaining that any funds transferred to his bank account from his holding 
account will no longer keep its ISA status.
So, along with its terms it shared with Mr I when he took out his ISA (which has been readily 
available for him to view at any time through his online portal), I think OneFamily was clear 
partial transfers were not permitted. And what it would mean if Mr I transferred funds to his 
bank account. So, I dont think I can fairly say OneFamily are at fault in this instance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman