DRN-3444693
The complaint
Mr C complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
applying a lower claim limit for a pre-existing condition to a claim under his upgraded pet 
insurance policy.
This decision covers Mr Cs complaint about Red Sands (as the insurer of the policy) 
applying a lower claim limit for a pre-existing condition under his upgraded policy. It doesnt 
cover the sale of the upgraded policy by his broker.
What happened
Mr C took out a lifetime pet insurance policy for his dog in May 2017, which included a 
£1,000 annual limit on claims for any single condition requiring treatment. In November 2017 
Mr C contacted Red Sands to discuss making a claim under his policy as his dog had a 
problem with its eye following an accident. Prior to renewal of his policy renewal in May 
2018, Mr C contacted his broker and asked to upgrade his policy to a higher level of cover 
(including a £6,000 annual limit on a condition. Revised policy documents were issued 
confirming the upgraded policy. Mr C renewed his policy, at the same level of cover, each 
year thereafter.
In January 2022, Mr C contacted Red Sands to make a claim as his dog had a problem with 
its eye. Mr C said his dog needed treatment by two separate vet practices (one being a 
specialist). Red Sands said each practice would need to submit a claim for treatment. One of 
the practices then submitted a pre-authorisation for the estimated cost of treatment of the 
condition (Ulcerative Keratitis) at a cost of £1,168.39. The pre-authorisation was approved, 
and a full claim was subsequently submitted for an actual cost of £1,038.82. Red Sands 
accepted the claim (having deducted amounts due for the policy excess and a co-payment 
of 20%).
 
However, Red Sands also said theyd made a mistake when theyd approved the pore-
authorisation, as the eye condition requiring treatment had started back in 2017. As such, 
they said all claims for conditions that had started before Mr C upgraded his policy would still 
be assessed against the previous policy annual condition limit of £1,000. While they agreed 
to pay the claim in full on this occasion, they said the annual condition limit had been fully 
used for the dogs eye condition (so they wouldnt accept any further claim for treatment of 
the condition in the current policy year).
Mr C was unhappy at this as he said he hadnt been told that the annual condition limit (for 
conditions that began before he upgraded his policy) would be limited to the figure under his 
old policy (£1,000) rather than the limit under his upgraded policy (£6,000). So, he 
complained to Red Sands.
Red Sands didnt uphold his complaint. In their final response, they said the dogs eye 
condition was first noted in June 2017, at which time the policy in force had an annual 
condition limit of £1,000. While Mr C upgraded his policy in May 2018, as the eye condition 
was first noted when the previous policy was in force, the £1,000 annual condition limit 
would still be applied. While they didnt have a recording of the call in which Mr C upgraded 
his policy (as calls were only kept for two years) Red Sands said their sales script included 
an explanation that the higher annual condition limit would only apply to new conditions that 
arose after the upgraded policy began.
Unhappy at Red Sands response, Mr C complained to this service. The main part of his 
complaint was that he had been mis-led about his dogs eye condition being covered (at the 
higher level) when he upgraded his policy (at extra cost) over the phone. He also thought 
that the eye condition wasnt a pre-existing condition as it had originally been treated and 
hadnt recurred (until the problem in January 2022). He thought he had been mis-sold the 
policy as he only became aware of the lower annual condition limit when he made the claim 
in January 2022. He wanted Red Sands to pay the whole value of the claim (including any 
bill from the second vet) or to be refunded the additional premiums paid for the upgraded 
policy (over and above the premiums for the previous policy).
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint, concluding Red Sands hadnt acted fairly. She 
couldnt see any evidence Mr C was told about the annual condition limit remaining at £1,000 
for pre-existing conditions. Nor could she see any information in the policy documentation for 
Mr Cs old policy setting out what would happen (to the annual condition limit) should he 
decide to upgrade his policy). And the policy documents for Mr Cs upgraded policy only 
referred to the £6,000 annual condition limit  there was no mention of a lower limit for any 
pre-existing conditions. So, she thought Red Sands hadnt acted fairly in applying the lower 
limit. To put things right, she thought Red Sands should assess any second claim for 
treatment of the eye condition in line with the upgraded policy terms and conditions (including 
the £6,000 annual condition limit). If Mr C had settled any second cost of treatment, she 
thought Red Sands should reimburse this (and pay interest on the settlement figure).
 
Red Sands disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Red Sands has acted fairly towards Mr C.
 
The main issue in Mr Cs complaint is whether Red Sands acted fairly in applying the lower 
annual condition limit from his previous policy (£1,000) to the claim made for treatment of his 
dogs eye condition in 2022 (rather than the higher annual condition limit of £6,000 under his 
upgraded policy). Mr C says he wasnt made aware of the lower limit still applying to a pre-
existing condition (and that this means the policy was mis-sold). Red Sands say they acted 
fairly in applying the lower limit and this would have been made clear to Mr C during the 
sales call in which he upgraded his policy (from the sales script used in such situations).
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the evidence and information available. 
Having done so, Ive concluded Red Sands havent shown Mr C was made aware of the 
lower limit, either at the time he upgraded his policy or subsequently. So, I dont think theyve 
acted fairly in seeking to apply the lower limit to Mr Cs claim. Ill set out why Ive come to 
that conclusion.
In their final response, Red Sands say Mr C would have been aware of the lower limit 
continuing to apply to any conditions that first occurred before Mr C upgraded his policy. 
They say this was part of the sales script that would have been used when Mr C called to 
upgrade his policy. However, because Red Sands only keep call recordings for two years, 
the recording of the call in which Mr C upgraded his policy isnt available. So, its not possible to determine clearly whether he was told about the lower annual condition limit 
continuing to apply to pre-existing conditions. Given the importance of the issue of Mr C 
clearly being made aware of the lower limit continuing to apply, I dont think its sufficient to 
refer to the sales script.
Given this, Ive also looked at the policy information provided to Mr C, with a view to seeing 
whether the lower annual condition limit continuing (for pre-existing conditions) where a 
policy was upgraded was made clear.
Taking his old policy first, the policy terms and conditions at the time he took out his policy 
(2017) specify the £1,000 Annual Condition Limit for the level of cover taken out by Mr C (it 
also sets out the  higher  figures for enhanced levels of cover). While it refers to Red 
Sands being able to change the cover, benefits, premium, terms and/or conditions (when 
inviting renewal of the policy) theres no mention I can see about changes where the 
policyholder requests a change in the level of cover  including the annual condition limit. 
Specifically, theres no mention that the annual condition limit where a policy is upgraded will 
remain the same (for conditions that arose before the policy upgrade). 
Turning to the policy information provided about Mr Cs new, upgraded policy, Ive again 
looked at what Red Sands provided to Mr C. The policy terms and conditions for the 
upgraded level of cover simply refer to the Annual Condition Limit of £6,000. While reference 
is made to the application of any policy excess or co-payment figure, theres no reference I 
can see to a lower Annual Condition Limit in relation to a condition that has previously arisen 
when a previous (lower level of cover) policy was in force. Similarly, the policy schedule 
issued to Mr C for the upgraded level of cover only refers to an Annual Condition Limit of 
£6,000  theres no qualification or other reference to the lower level of £1,000 for conditions 
that first arose under the previous (lower level of cover) policy. 
Given the significant difference between the two annual condition limits (which Red Sands 
say would have been made clear to Mr C from the sales script that would have been used in 
the call when he requested his policy upgrade) I think its reasonable to have expected this 
to be confirmed (and thereby made clear to Mr C) in the policy schedule. It would then have 
been for Mr C to whether he was content with the lower annual condition limit that would 
continue to be applied (along with the other terms and conditions, premiums he was being 
offered for his upgraded policy).
Based on these considerations, Ive concluded Red Sands havent done enough to make 
clear to Mr C that a lower Annual Condition Limit continued to apply (for conditions that first 
arose under his old policy) when he upgraded his policy. So, they havent acted fairly and 
reasonably in applying the lower annual condition limit to Mr Cs claim in January 2022. 
Given this conclusion, to put things right I think Red Sands should assess Mr Cs claim (or 
any additional element of claim for treatment of the eye condition that may arise) against the 
higher Annual Condition Limit of £6,000 and in accordance with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy (such as policy excess or co-payment).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I require 
Red Sands Insurance (Europe) Limited to:
Assess Mr Cs claim (or any additional element of claim for treatment of the eye 
condition that may arise) against the higher Annual Condition Limit of £6,000 and in 
accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (such as policy 
excess or co-payment).If Mr C has already paid for any additional cost of treatment, which Red Sands Insurance 
(Europe) Limited assess and accept under the above point, they should add interest at a rate 
of 8% simple from the date Mr C paid the additional cost to the date he tells us he accepts 
my decision (if he accepts the decision)1. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman
1 If Red Sands considers theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr C how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr C a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.