DRN-2014144
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr F was given two loans by Myjar in February and March 2019. The first loan was due to be 
repaid in 6 monthly instalments. The second loan was due to be repaid in 24 monthly 
instalments. Mr F had difficulties repaying the second loan and I understand the loan is still 
outstanding. 
A summary of Mr Fs borrowing is as follows:
LoansDate 
Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 22/02/2019 25/02/2019 6 £450.00
2 03/03/2019 Outstanding 24 £500.00
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Fs complaint. She didnt think Myjar had been 
wrong to provide the first loan to Mr F. But she thought Myjar shouldnt have agreed to the 
second loan and she asked Myjar to pay Mr F some compensation. 
Myjar didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, and so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision about the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. This means 
that it should have carried out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F could repay the 
loans in a sustainable way. Myjar's checks could take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
But I've also considered if there were any other factors that might indicate that Myjar should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish whether the lending was sustainable for 
Mr F.
Such factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mr F. 
Myjar carried out some checks before it gave each loan to Mr F. This included asking for 
details of his income and expenditure and carrying out some credit checks. Myjar says it 
uses the results of these checks to satisfy itself that the consumer would be able to 
sustainably meet the loan repayments.
From what Ive seen, I think the checks Myjar did before agreeing to the first loan were 
reasonable and proportionate - given what Mr F had told Myjar about his circumstances, and 
the amounts he needed to repay in relation to the disposable income hed declared. I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Myjar to ask Mr F for the amount of information that 
would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first loan. 
However, I dont think the checks Myjars did before agreeing to the second loan were 
proportionate.  I appreciate that this was still the early stages of Myjars lending relationship 
with Mr F. And his monthly repayments for his second loan were lower than those hed made 
for the first loan. So in some circumstances, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But Mr F had to maintain these repayments with 24 
instalments over an extended period of time. Mr F had repaid his first loan significantly early 
 after only 3 days, rather than over the 6-month loan term. A few days later he needed to 
borrow again, and for the higher amount of £500. And he needed to borrow the money over 
a much longer term. Overall, I think MYJAR should reasonably have taken steps at that time to independently verify some of the information that Mr F was providing about his financial 
position - to satisfy itself that Mr F could repay his second loan sustainably, over a 
significantly extended period. 
Mr F has provided us with copies of his bank statements so I can determine what better 
checks might have shown to MYJAR at that time. I can see that Mr F was borrowing from 
several other short-term lenders at the same time. Whilst he had declared a significant 
amount of disposable income to Myjar, he had also declared that he was self-employed, so it 
was possible that his income would be unpredictable. I think MYJAR should have been 
concerned that he wouldnt be able to afford to repay those loans at the same time as his 
borrowing on loan 2. And his bank statements also indicate other forms of significant 
financial distress.
I think its likely that with better checks Myjar would have discovered the extent of Mr Fs 
financial problems. I think the lender would reasonably have concluded that Mr F was having 
serious difficulties managing his money and that it was unlikely he would be able to 
sustainably repay his second loan. 
Mr Fs representative has also told us that Mr F suffered a serious injury some years ago 
which has led him to become a vulnerable consumer. It does not appear to be something 
that he disclosed to Myjar when he applied for the loans. So I dont think Myjar could 
reasonably have known that Mr F was a potentially vulnerable consumer when it made its 
lending decision. However, I would reasonably expect Myjar, as a responsible lender, to take 
into account this consumers possible vulnerability in its discussions with him about 
repayment of the outstanding loan.
Putting things right
I understand loan 2 is still outstanding. Myjar should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr F, bearing in mind its obligation to treat him with forbearance and due 
consideration. 
If Myjar has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back, if its able to do so and then take 
the following steps. If Myjar isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Myjar should:
A)Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding loan that 
is being upheld, and treat any repayments made by Mr F as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on that loan. 
B)If this results in Mr F having made overpayments then Myjar should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C)If an outstanding balance remains then Myjar should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr F.
D)Remove any adverse information recorded about loan 2 from Mr Fs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to deduct tax from this interest. Myjar should give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
Having considered all the evidence provided to me and reflecting on what is most likely to 
have happened in the circumstances, I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part and direct MYJAR 
Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman