DRN-2963050
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint against Oxford Capital Partners LLP (Oxford Capital) is about his 
investment in their Estate Planning Service (EPS). He complains about the information 
Oxford Capital provided prior to his investment and about the performance and management 
of the EPS.
What happened
Mr M invested £250,000 in the EPS in January 2019 after receiving advice from his financial 
adviser. The EPS was a discretionary investment management service which, through 
Business Relief, would likely provide investors inheritance tax relief after two years. 
The terms of the discretionary management service were set out in an Investment 
Memorandum (IM) dated July 2018. Oxford Capital used invested funds to buy shares in 
holding companies which would own or provide loans to companies operating infrastructure 
assets. The underlying assets included investment in the energy sector and property 
construction. 
Oxford Capital suspended the EPS in February 2019 in response to a problem with a plant 
(plant A) for which the holding company had provided construction finance. Oxford Capital 
transferred the EPS to a new investment manager in 2020. When he made his complaint, 
Mr M said the valuation provided by that company showed a loss of £140,000 on his 
investment.
 
Mr M complained, in summary, that throughout 2018 Oxford Capital continued to publish 
figures that increased the asset base of the funds. That encouraged Mr M to invest in the 
EPS. Information he has subsequently obtained suggests Oxford Capital were aware in 
2018 of significant problems that should have been reflected in the asset price. 
In response to Mr Ms complaint, Oxford Capital said, in summary:
While it was regrettable that the valuation of Mr Ms holding decreased so soon after he 
invested, it was due to the volatility risk of investing in unquoted companies. There were 
many factors affecting the performance of Mr Ms investment that were outside their 
control, including the realisation of several of the key risks that had been highlighted in 
the IM. These included changes in legislation and government subsidies, falling energy 
prices and operating difficulties.
While some of the operating companies were not performing as expected, they were not 
failing, and the loans made by the holding companies were still assessed to be 
performing normally until February 2019. The loans were judged to be impaired only 
after suspension of the EPS as conditions worsened for the renewable energy sector.
A further reason for the poor performance of the EPS was the impairment of a significant 
loan to plant A which experienced serious difficulties due to poor design and 
construction. Oxford Capital have said it was only in October 2018 that they became 
aware an incident at the plant was more serious than previously thought, but at that time 
the loan was still not judged to be in any way at risk. The lender had security over the 
asset and there was still equity value of 50% above it. In February 2019 however the 
cost of repairing the incident became clearer and the construction company refused to 
accept liability. The companys debt was now judged to be impaired, and Oxford Capital 
decided there was a risk to EPS investors and the fund should be suspended. 
They wrote to Mr M and other investors to say that the uncertainty in valuing the 
underlying investment meant they were unable to value shares in the EPS companies 
and so were suspending trading. That contributed to their decision later to seek a new 
investment manager for the EPS. 
The suspension of trading in the EPS in February 2019 was the first point at which they 
were unable to value shares. They had consistently made their valuations of the EPS 
using industry-wide valuation guidelines. Although this was only a short time after Mr Ms 
investment, they refute the suggestion that at the time he invested the assets he 
purchased were inaccurately valued.
They cannot speak for the reduction in valuations after the transfer to a new investment 
manager. But at the time of transfer, indicative valuations had been agreed between 
Oxford Capital and the new manager, with a few areas subject to further due diligence. 
Any subsequent drop in valuation is likely to have taken account of the changes in 
energy prices and the property market in 2019 and 2020, the latter affected by the 
pandemic, and changes in legislation. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said he 
was satisfied that Oxford Capital acted in line with the IM when selecting and managing 
investments in the EPS. In relation to the difficulties experienced with the plant A project, 
there was nothing at the time Mr M invested to suggest that the investment would fail. 
And he said Oxford Capital was not responsible for the reduction in valuation after the EPS 
transferred to another manager. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision. He said: 
Oxford Capital were not focused on the performance of the fund and were more 
interested in ensuring that the published asset value continued to increase throughout 
2018. 
Oxford Capital failed to adequately manage the project at plant A. They should have 
either enforced the warranty terms or agreed stronger terms in the first place. They had 
an independent survey in October 2018 suggesting major issues which caused them to 
devalue the equity, but they continued to publish figures that increased the price of their 
assets throughout 2018 and 2019.
Other parts of the EPS were seriously underperforming, and that information was not 
made available to the agencies who recommended the fund in the last quarter of 2018. 
There were clear indications from Oxford Capitals own reports that the value of the fund 
had decreased but that was ignored in terms of its valuation to the market. 
Oxford Capital must have overestimated the asset values in the fund when providing 
information to the company who valued it prior to transfer. That suggests the earlier 
valuations were also inaccurate.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr M that I have looked carefully at all the information he has provided. 
Having done so, I hope he wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent addressed every point 
he has raised. Instead, Ive concentrated my findings on what I consider to be the key factors 
in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint.  
Oxford Capital were not responsible for giving advice to Mr M about his investment. So, it 
wasnt for them to decide whether the risks and other features of the EPS were suitable for 
him. Any complaint about the suitability of the recommendation would lie against the provider 
of that advice.
Oxford Capital were responsible for providing information to Mr M, and his adviser, about the 
EPS and for managing his investment. In this decision, I will therefore focus on whether the 
information Oxford Capital provided to Mr M when he invested was clear, fair and not 
misleading. And I will look at whether Oxford Capitals actions in managing the EPS were 
consistent with the mandate they had been given by the IM. In both cases, I am not looking 
at Oxford Capitals actions with the benefit of hindsight; the fact that Mr Ms investment 
performed badly does not necessarily mean Oxford Capital did something wrong.
Risks
The IM provided to Mr M at the time he invested made clear that the target returns were not 
guaranteed, and that the EPS was a high-risk investment. For example, the Important Notice 
on page 2 of the IM said:
The Oxford Capital Estate Planning Service will invest in unquoted securities. 
Investing is speculative and involves a significant degree of risk. 
Investing in private companies may expose you to a significant risk of losing all the 
money invested. 
The investment risks section of the IM also highlighted the risk that the EPS may not achieve 
the targeted returns and that investee companies may fail, resulting in their securities being 
sold for significantly less than the amount paid for them. That section of the IM also set out 
other key risks, including: 
Government subsidies and initiatives that contribute to the revenues of the 
companies invested in may be revised or withdrawn.
The risks of investing in unquoted companies, including the liquidity risks. 
Risks specific to the energy sector, such as changes in power prices and delays in 
the supply of new equipment. There were also risks that third party contractors could 
go bankrupt or be unable to meet their obligations, or that construction operations 
would not proceed as planned. 
The limited diversification within the EPS, as underlying investments could be in the 
same or similar industry sectors. That could mean the entire investment being 
exposed to risks particular to that sector.I think the risks of the investment were adequately highlighted in the IM and that Mr M knew 
or ought to have known from the outset that the risks were higher to achieve the investment 
objectives and provide tax relief.
 
Problems experienced by EPS companies
Mr Ms main complaint point is that by the time he invested Oxford Capital knew of 
significant problems with the EPS companies. He says Oxford Capital should have told 
prospective investors about those problems and they should have been reflected in the EPS 
asset prices.  
Ive looked first at the evidence Ive seen about the loan to plant A. Oxford Capital were 
aware of an operational issue at the plant from March 2018. I think it is important to note that 
the loan formed just one part of the investments held by the holding company at the time and 
that the EPS had about 40-50 operating companies in its portfolio. 
Its not disputed that Oxford Capital were aware by October 2018 that the incident affecting 
plant A was more serious than they had previously thought. But the directors of the plant 
were still confident it would be repaired and returned to full operational capacity. The holding 
company had security over the asset and there was still equity value of 50% above it. So, I 
think it is more likely than not that Oxford Capital believed the loan remained secure. And I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Oxford Capital to make that judgment up until 
February 2019, which was beyond the point at which Mr M invested. 
From what Ive seen, I think it was only in February 2019 that the cost of repairing the 
incident at plant A became clear and the construction company refused to accept liability. 
These were matters outside of Oxford Capitals control and it was for them to take such 
steps they judged necessary as discretionary manager. I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Oxford Capital to conclude that the loan to project A was impaired and that there was a 
significant risk to EPS investors. They decided the fund should be suspended and wrote to 
Mr M and other investors explaining the reasons why. 
Oxford Capital have also acknowledged the impact on other projects of the changes in 
legislation and revenue streams that were affecting the wider energy sector during 2018. 
The secured loans made by EPS companies were assessed monthly by their boards, in line 
with the IM and industry guidelines. Their judgment at that time was that, although the 
problems would affect the profitability of the energy plant projects, they would not impact on 
the security of the loans made by the EPS holding companies and the long term outlook for 
the investments. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think that was an unreasonable judgment for Oxford 
Capital to make. It was only after the developments with plant A in February 2019 and 
Oxford Capitals further investigations of the wider environment that that they judged it likely 
that loan revenues might be impacted. That was the point at which the EPS was suspended.
With the benefit of hindsight, its clear that the problems affecting some of the projects 
(particularly project A) presented a more serious risk to investors than Oxford Capital initially 
thought. But Oxford Capital had a mandate to exercise their commercial judgment and I 
dont think the decisions they took at the time were outside the range of reasonable 
responses to the issues they faced.
Valuations
Oxford Capital have said they made all their valuations according to industry-wide 
guidelines, using discounted cashflow methodology. As Ive noted above, they judged that the cashflows of the holding companies from the loans they had made were not impaired at 
any point until February 2019. They have also said that at the time the EPS was transferred, 
the indicative valuations were agreed with the new investment manager. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly say that Oxford Capital failed to 
carry out the valuations in the way they should have, or that they provided misleading 
information to Mr M, either at the time he invested or later. I note what both parties have said 
about the lower valuations provided by the new investment manager since the EPS 
transferred to them. Those valuations are a matter for the new manager, and Ive not seen 
anything that changes my findings on the valuations that Oxford Capital made prior to the 
transfer. 
Overall management of the EPS
The IM gave Oxford Capital the mandate to select investments on the clients behalf and 
decide how they would be managed, with the focus on ensuring the investments could 
deliver the objectives of the EPS. 
Oxford Capital have provided information about how they selected and invested in 
companies that were suitable for the EPS and in accordance with the IM. They have 
explained how each investment was subject to comprehensive analysis and a due diligence 
process. They have also described how they maintained oversight of each of the holding 
companies. 
Ive considered carefully what Mr M has said about the management of the EPS. But Ive 
seen no evidence that Oxford Capital failed to invest funds in line with the IM, or that they 
failed to manage the EPS in line with the mandate they had been given. The fact that the 
EPS has performed badly is the result of some of the potential risks associated with this kind 
of investment having been realised. And in responding to that situation, Im not persuaded 
that Oxford Capital have acted unreasonably, or outside the mandate they were given, in 
exercising their commercial judgment.
It is very unfortunate for Mr M that the suspension of the fund happened so soon after he 
had invested, and I can understand why he feels strongly about it. But I dont think I can 
fairly hold Oxford Capital responsible for his losses and so I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint 
against Oxford Capital Partners LLP.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman