DRN-3217224
The complaint
Mr M complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com (Everyday) 
irresponsibly lent to him when he couldnt afford the loan.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr M took out a loan with Everyday for £3,000 payable over 36 months 
with a monthly repayment of £160.72. Mr M said he was struggling with his mental health,  
and Everyday hadnt done enough to check whether he could afford the loan. He complained 
to them.
Everyday said theyd carried out proportionate and reasonable checks to determine Mr Ms 
financial position at the time of the loan. Theyd also considered his health issues 
questioning him to get an understanding of the impact this had on him. Mr M had said the 
loan was to clear his overdraft and to buy furniture. As the clearance of his overdraft would 
have meant Mr M wouldnt have had any remaining credit commitments thereby putting him 
in a better position, on the evidence theyd seen they said the loan was affordable. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Everydays response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Everyday was aware that Mr M had been turned down for a loan 
previously because hed said hed use the loan to clear his rent arrears. Hed also said in a 
call that this was a mistake, hed been confused and that the loan was to clear credit cards. 
But Mr M didnt have any credit cards. Our investigator said it should have been clear to 
Everyday that Mr M wasnt being truthful about his application. He said Everyday should 
have done more to establish Mr Ms true financial situation, as they hadnt he said Everyday 
had lent irresponsibly. Our investigator also said this had caused Mr M considerable trouble 
and upset which had impacted his wellbeing. For this he said Everyday should pay Mr M 
£500 to compensate for the trouble and upset caused.
Everyday accepted they should have done more. But said theyd considered Mr Ms health 
issues before lending. They offered £350 to compensate for the trouble and upset.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators outcome, or the offer made by Everyday. He asked for 
an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the
circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr M would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Everyday make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr M
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time Everyday lent to Mr M required them to carry out a
reasonable assessment of whether he could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning Everyday need to think
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse
consequences for Mr M. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to think only about
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of
repayment on Mr M himself.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders
to consider the specific circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. Consideration should also be given to
the amount, type and cost of credit being applied for.
So, Ive considered whether Everyday in lending to Mr M had been thorough in the checks
they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to lend to
him.
Mr Ms application said he was single with no dependents, he was living with his parents and 
not paying any rent. Mr M had given his income as £744 which Everyday said theyd verified 
through a credit agency. He said his monthly outgoings were £84. Everyday said his credit 
history only showed he d an overdraft facility of £250, and thered been four searches in the 
previous 12 months. 
Everyday said in their affordability assessment they used the Office for National Statistics 
calculation for Mr Ms living costs and assessed these to be £300 per month, far higher than 
Mr M had stated in his application. After taking the new loan into account they said this 
would have left Mr M with around £280 in disposable income each month. Everyday decided 
that the loan was affordable and agreed to lend to Mr M.
As I outlined above, I need to determine whether Everyday carried out proportionate and 
reasonable checks before agreeing to the loan. Ive looked at the information that Everyday 
would have seen. The credit assessment carried out by Everyday seems in line with the 
information they saw, and which would seem to show Mr M had disposable income each 
month. 
But Ive also listened to the calls sent to us by Everyday. In this application Mr M says he 
wants the loan to clear his overdraft, pay off a couple of other debts and to purchase 
furniture. In the call Mr Ms credit profile is looked at and no further questions are asked about this, even though this only shows a credit commitment of £250 for Mr Ms overdraft. At 
no point is he asked about the other debts he was looking to settle. The call goes on and 
asks Mr M about the benefits he receives, his health and checks his understanding of the 
loan and its affordability.
Also in the call hes asked about loans with a sister company, Ill call T and Mr M says 
hed been unsuccessful and so didnt have a loan with them. He wasnt asked about why 
the loan hadnt gone ahead. Everyday has provided the recording of the call with T. In it Mr 
M is told his loan application has been declined as hed said it was for rent arrears, he then 
says hed got confused and that the loan was to settle credit cards. He confirmed in the call 
that he did have rent arrears but would be looking to clear these another way. Again, from 
looking at Mr Ms credit file there wasnt any evidence of his having any credit cards. And 
hed said he didnt pay any rent as he lived with his parents. 
The relevant guidance  CONC 5.2A (36) says: 
 firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information relevant to the creditworthiness 
assessment.
As theres no evidence that Everyday asked for, or considered, further information to 
properly scrutinise and address the warning signs Ive highlighted, I find that it didnt 
complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before providing Mr M with 
this loan. I think Everyday should have looked into Mr Ms application and financial situation 
further. So, I think Everyday acted irresponsibly in lending to him. 
Mr M has told us what the impact this has had on him, and that hed struggled to maintain 
the repayments. The impact of when something has gone wrong is particular to the 
individual. And for someone already in a vulnerable position, mistakes can have a greater 
impact. Its clear from what Mr M has said that hed felt the pressure and struggled in 
keeping up the loan repayments and that this had caused his mental health to deteriorate. 
Putting things right
Putting things right when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending isnt
straightforward as Mr M has had the loan in question and hes used the funds. in these
circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. So, I uphold this complaint and ask
Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com to:
remove any interest and charges applied to Mr Ms account from when it was 
opened;
treat any payments that Mr M has made as a reduction of the principle amount, if this
results in Mr M having paid more than what he was initially lent, then any extra 
should be treated as an overpayment and refunded to Mr M plus 8% simple interest 
on this amount from date of payment to date of settlement;
if an outstanding balance remains on Mr Ms account after all adjustments have been
made, then Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com needs to come 
to a suitable repayment plan with Mr M to pay off the remaining amount; 
remove any adverse information on Mr Ms credit file in relation to this loan, and
pay Mr M £500 for the trouble and upset that has been caused. HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com  
to take off tax from this interest. Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Everyday Lending trading as GeorgeBanco.com to take the 
actions as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman