DRN-4009902
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund her for a purchase she paid for using her 
credit card.
What happened
Miss T paid for a course of cosmetic treatment from a clinic (the supplier) on her Lloyds
credit card in October 2019. However, Miss T says that due to the Covid-19 pandemic the
course of treatment was disrupted and the time period between treatments was longer than
originally planned.
Miss T eventually completed the course of treatment which she says took 16 sessions in
total. However, she is unhappy with the results she achieved. In summary, she says that
because the treatments were not spaced as initially planned the results are unsatisfactory.
In summary, Miss T says that:
The treatment was not carried out within a reasonable time or with reasonable care
and skill as implied by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
She has not achieved the completely hair free results within 6-8 sessions as
promised which constitutes a misrepresentation.
Miss T was not able to resolve the matter with the supplier so she wrote to Lloyds in
September 2021 to raise a dispute and request a full refund of the £1,900 she paid to it.
Lloyds looked into the matter under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section
75). However, it did not uphold her claim.
Miss T made a complaint about the outcome of her claim which then came to this service to
consider. Our investigator didnt uphold it  in summary, she said there wasnt a clear breach
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier for which Lloyds would be liable for via
Section 75.
Miss T has asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman. I issued a provisional 
decision on this case. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that Miss T is unhappy with the treatment she paid for and the disruption
that appears to have come about as a result of the global pandemic. However, it is worth
noting that Lloyds is not a supplier of cosmetic treatments and therefore I will only be
considering its liability as a provider of financial services. In that respect I consider the card
protections offered through chargeback and Section 75 to be relevant here.
Chargeback
Chargeback is one way which Lloyds might have been able to claim back money for Miss T
for a service that she paid for using her card. It is subject to the rules of the particular card
scheme (Mastercard here).
While attempting a chargeback is often a reasonable approach it wont always be the right
thing to do. I note that in this particular case Lloyds appear not to have raised a chargeback
 however, I dont think this was unreasonable because I think any chargeback would clearly
have been out of time based on the scheme rules. Here I note that when Miss T got in touch
with Lloyds it was more than 540 days since the transaction date and 120 days since the
service ceased.
I also note that for similar reasons to those given below around the complexity of the issues
and the lack of evidence about was agreed and provided  even if I concluded that a
chargeback was in time I think it is difficult to also conclude that on balance it would likely
have succeeded/been decided in Miss Ts favour by the card scheme.
Section 75
Miss T used a credit card to pay for the treatment which means that Section 75 is relevant to
this case. Section 75, in certain circumstances allows Miss T to hold Lloyds responsible for a
breach of contract or misrepresentation in respect of the service purchased here.
There are certain technical criteria which need to be met for there to be a valid Section 75
claim. These relate to the cost of the goods or services, the parties to the transaction or the
way the payment was made. I believe the criteria for a valid Section 75 claim are in place
here  so I have gone on to consider if the supplier breached its contract or misrepresented
things to Miss T.
One of the problems posed in determining a breach or misrepresentation here is there is
limited information about what Miss T and the supplier actually agreed. Apart from a brief
summary which indicates that x8 full body sessions were purchased I have not been
provided terms and conditions or a treatment plan (with intended timings, duration, and
expectations around this treatment).
I do appreciate that regardless of the presence of information about express terms of the
contract there are implied terms to consider from the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). I
have gone on to consider this.
Service not performed in a reasonable time
One thing Miss T has said is that the service was not performed in a reasonable time in
accordance with the implied term via Section 52 of the CRA. However, I note this term does
not apply if the contract expressly fixes the time for the service. It is unclear to me what
timescale was agreed for the treatments but from what Miss T says a timescale was agreed
but disrupted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This is essentially the basis for her claim.
Therefore I dont think Section 52 applies here and I have gone on to consider whether a
pandemic induced disruption to any agreed timescale is a breach of contract by the supplier.
Miss T has detailed her recollection of the treatments she did receive. She says there were
16 in total but because of the pandemic there were longer interruptions between some of the
sessions than originally planned.
There is a lack of contractual information to show when the treatments were due to happen
however it seems from what Miss T has said (and the time period she is talking about) that
the Covid-19 pandemic likely caused disruption to the original plan for her treatments.
However, I dont think this is clearly a breach of contract by the supplier in any event. I saythis for the following reasons:
Although there was likely some disruption to the original agreed course of treatment it
appears that Miss T and the supplier mutually agreed to continue the treatments
based on a revised timescale  which would be a variation to the contract and not a
breach.
Even if I were to conclude that Miss T did not mutually agree to such a variation it is
unclear what the contract says about situations like this. For example, if the supplier
had included and was able to rely on a Force Majeure clause in situations where it is
unable to perform the original service as agreed due to an event such as the Covid-
19 pandemic.
Furthermore, even if there were no clause in the contract dealing with such an
unprecedented event the supplier was essentially unable to provide the service in the
original timescale not because of a breach of contract, but as a likely result of a
contract being frustrated. When a contract is frustrated it effectively comes to an end.
So while Miss T might have a certain civil remedy against the supplier directly (which she
can get independent legal advice on if she wishes) in these particular circumstances I am
unable to reasonably conclude any disruption to the treatment caused by the pandemic is a
breach of contract which she can fairly hold Lloyds liable for via Section 75.
Reasonable care and skill
Miss T is correct in saying that the CRA implies a term into her contract with the supplier that
the service will be provided with reasonable care and skill.
From what Miss T has said her current position appears to be that some other approach to
the schedule of treatments received would have been preferable, and what the supplier did
in continuing the treatment led to poor results. Essentially here I consider that I am
assessing whether the suppliers actions in carrying out the treatment in the way it did
(following an unplanned delay due to the pandemic) would be considered a lack of
reasonable care and skill as set out in the CRA.
What is considered reasonable care and skill is not focused on the results achieved but the
manner in which the service was carried out. There is no specific definition to assist me with
what would be reasonable or unreasonable and this matter is made particularly challenging
when considering the complexity and variables around cosmetic treatments. I also note that
here the complexity is compounded by extremely limited evidence around the contract and
treatment plan that was agreed by the parties in this case. There is also a lack of expert
evidence in this particular case to support what Miss T is alleging.
Miss T has indicated that the timings of the treatments have caused her to get poor results.
However, it is unclear to me based on the information I have if the supplier carrying out the
sessions in the manner it did would constitute a lack of care and skill in that particular
industry.
I also note that while Miss T has indicated that the timings were fatal to the success of the
treatment there are questions which I am unable to answer with the evidence I have. For
example, even If I can accept that timings are likely to be important to the treatment it isnt
clear how long is too long or the significance of three longer intermissions across a course of
16 sessions where most were carried out no more than 4 weeks apart. It is unclear to me
whether for this particular type of treatment the suppliers decision to carry out the sessions
in the timeframe and manner it did is enough to conclude that it has acted without reasonable care and skill.
I note Miss T has placed emphasis on a quote from a clinician working for the supplier which
she says shows that her treatment failed because of the instances of longer intermissions
between sessions. But taken in isolation this information is too ambiguous for me to
conclude that the supplier has not acted with reasonable care and skill. There isnt a lot of
context to this brief quote, it isnt clear if it is referring to future treatments or what some
terms mean specifically. I also think there are further questions here because:
Miss Ts correspondence indicates she was unhappy with the results of the
treatments from the very start  yet the first 8 sessions do not appear to have been
disrupted by the pandemic and were no more than 4 weeks apart.
Miss T has indicated in correspondence with the supplier previously that it reassured
her that having some longer pauses between treatments was actually beneficial in
her case  it isnt clear why it would have told her this.
There is no contract or treatment plan to give context to what occurred here  I note
the invoice is for x8 treatments yet Miss T had 16 treatments  furthermore Miss T
has indicated in her correspondence with the supplier that the later 4-5 sessions she
had were considerably longer than the previous sessions. It isnt clear to me to what
extent the supplier has acted to lessen any potentially adverse impact of Covid-19
disruptions by providing more or longer sessions and whether this would have an
impact on any finding in respect of reasonable skill and care in that particular
industry.
I note Miss T has sent in pictures to show she didnt get the results she wanted  but without
further persuasive evidence (likely from an expert) it is difficult for me to say these show the
supplier has fallen below the expected standard of care and skill here in carrying out the
treatments.
I also note that even if I were able to conclude the supplier acted without reasonable care
and skill there is still, in any event, the question as to suitable redress and how the actions of
the supplier impacted the results which were realistically achievable in Miss Ts particular
case. I note Miss T herself indicated to the supplier that she was seeing up to a 70%
improvement in some areas and later on that she only (in her view) needed a couple of
complimentary sessions on some of the areas where there was little or no improvement. My
impression is that this shows the treatments did produce some results. So in order to say it
was fair for Lloyds to provide a refund of any kind I would need further persuasive evidence
that a lack of skill and care has likely caused Miss T to receive worse results than she could
reasonably have expected otherwise.
I appreciate how Miss T feels here  but in my role as ombudsman I am not an expert in this
field and in this particular case I am unable to fairly conclude that the supplier has likely
acted without reasonable care and skill. Nor am I able to fairly conclude that any lack of care
and skill here has likely caused Miss T to get results which would warrant the full refund she
is claiming (or a partial refund).
Information provided at point of sale
Because of what Miss T has said about what the supplier led her to believe I have also
considered whether the information she was given at the time of sale would allow me to
conclude there was likely some kind of breach of contract or misrepresentation. Miss T
points to being promised completely hair free results within 6-8 sessions.From looking at the limited information I have I am unable to fairly conclude that there were
specific and false promises given to Miss T about the success she would achieve. I also note
that Miss T has pointed to references on the suppliers website regarding the results that
might be achieved. However, I think that taken in isolation this information is too ambiguous
to constitute a false statement of fact - there are no guarantees given here. Furthermore,
even if I were satisfied that the supplier gave Miss T specific assurances, without further
persuasive (likely expert) evidence it is difficult for me to say how successful Miss Ts results
have been in any event against any particular promise.
In conclusion, I am sorry to hear about Miss Ts disappointment with her course of treatment.
However, when considering Lloyds liability for what has happened I need to consider the
particular criteria around Section 75. And in this case I am unable to fairly conclude that
there is sufficient information to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the
supplier here. So I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly in not upholding her claim. I also dont
think that Lloyds made a mistake by not raising a chargeback. So overall I dont consider it
fair and reasonable to direct Lloyds to pay Miss T the refund she wants.
I proposed not to uphold the complaint and asked the parties for their comments. Lloyds 
accepted my provisional decision. Miss T did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have not added anything that gives me cause to alter my 
provisional findings. I still consider it fair and reasonable not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons already given in my provisional decision (as shown above).
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman