DRN-3572888
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly handled a claim under her legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
In February 2021, Mrs C submitted a claim under her legal expenses insurance policy to 
pursue legal action against her former employer. Amtrust subsequently declined the claim on 
the basis that its panel solicitors werent satisfied it enjoyed reasonable prospects of success 
 which is a requirement for cover under the policy.
Mrs C has raised a complaint, the main points of which are as follows:
Amtrust didnt deal with her claim in accordance with its timescales, which caused 
delays at a time when she was subjected to court deadlines.
Amtrust refused to provide details of who conducted the legal assessment of the 
claim, failing to operate with openness and transparency.
Amtrust hadnt used its usual panel solicitors to complete this assessment. Mrs C 
believes this is because that firm of solicitors are acting for the other side and 
Amtrust has failed to disclose this conflict of interest.
The cost of the legal assessment indicates the lawyer didnt have time to conduct a 
proper and thorough assessment of the case.
The legal assessment makes assumptions and the wording is ambiguous. It indicates 
some elements of the claim are strong, but prospects are assessed at below 51%. 
Mrs C believes the report has been constructed to work in the best interests of 
Amtrust and shes of the opinion that she has a strong case.
Amtrust failed to send all the evidence Mrs C submitted in support of her claim to the 
legal advisors, and the assessment makes reference to not seeing information that 
Mrs C believes she has already provided.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that Amtrust had dealt with 
the claim in line with the policy terms and it hadnt acted unfairly. As Mrs C didnt agree, the 
complaint was passed to me. And in June 2022, I issued a provisional decision which said:
I recognise Mrs Cs strength of feeling regarding this complaint and I appreciate the 
circumstances giving rise to her claim have been upsetting and stressful. I also understand 
that shes suffered some close bereavements during this time, and I send my condolences.
I want to assure Mrs C that whilst Im aware I may have condensed some of the complaint 
points in far less detail and in my own words, Ive read and considered everything shes told 
us. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored anything  I havent. 
Im satisfied Ive captured the essence of the complaint and I dont need to comment on 
every point individually, or possibly in the level of detail she would like, in order to reach what 
I think is a fair outcome. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service.
Claim handling
Mrs C complains about the time taken for Amtrust to deal with her claim. The Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires 
insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly. So Ive looked at the timeline of events to 
ensure Amtrust did all it could to progress the claim.
I understand Mrs C resigned from her employment on 6 December 2020. According to her 
chronology of events, she started ACAS early conciliation process on 15 December 2020 
which completed on 26 January 2021. She submitted her claim to Amtrust on 1 February 
2021.
On 8 February 2021, Amtrust reviewed the claim and asked Mrs C to provide further 
information. Following a call, it was established that Amtrust hadnt received all the 
documents emailed over due to the size. So Mrs C resent them separately on the same day. 
But her case wasnt looked at again until 15 February 2021 when Amtrust instructed 
solicitors to assess prospects.
At that time, Mrs C informed Amtrust that she needed to issue her claim in the Employment 
Tribunal by 25 February 2021. And she chased again on 1 March 2021 when she hadnt 
received a response.
Amtrust contacted Mrs C on 8 March 2021 to say it hadnt received the legal assessment 
back yet, but it had chased the solicitors. I can see that the assessment was subsequently 
received, and it was dated 8 March 2021, but Mrs C wasnt informed of the outcome until 15 
March 2021.
On 23 March 2021, Mrs C submitted further information which Amtrust passed onto the 
solicitors for a reassessment on 30 March 2021. I can see that the reassessment is dated 12 
April 2021, but the outcome wasnt passed on to Mrs C until 20 April 2021.
From the timeline above, Im not persuaded that Amtrust dealt with the claim as promptly as 
it couldve done. I say this for the following reasons:
Amtrust assessed the claim on 8 February 2021 and was on notice  following a call 
with Mrs C that day  that its email server had failed to receive all supporting 
documents due to size limitations.
Mrs C informed Amtrust that shed be resending them again that day. So I dont think 
it was necessary or appropriate to wait a further week before the claim was looked at 
again, especially given the short timescales involved with employment claims in 
general.
Amtrust chased the solicitors for the legal assessment on 8 March 2021, highlighting 
the urgency. And it appears this was received back the same day. Despite the 
urgency, that Amtrust was clearly aware of, the assessment wasnt passed on for a further week.
Amtrust took over a week to pass on the outcome of the reassessment in April. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs Cs legal expenses insurance policy, under the heading 
how to make a claim, says the following: As soon as you have a legal problem that you 
may require assistance with under this insurance you should telephone the Legal Helpline.
So Ive thought about whether Mrs C did enough to notify her claim as soon as possible to 
avoid any delays. Mrs C was aware of her legal problem when she resigned on 6 December 
2020. Whilst she didnt raise her claim until almost two months later, this was because she 
was completing ACAS early conciliation process. She submitted her claim within a few days 
after receiving the certificate.
Im mindful that Amtrust may not have been able to progress Mrs Cs claim without the 
completion of this process, so I dont think notifying the claim any earlier wouldve resulted in 
Mrs C receiving the claims decision sooner.
So although Im mindful that Amtrust was against the clock from the outset and it has a duty 
to assess the claim correctly despite the time pressures, as a legal expenses insurer its 
aware of the short timescales involved with employment cases and Im persuaded it couldve 
done more to progress this case.
For these reasons, I intend to uphold this part of Mrs Cs complaint and award compensation 
of £200, as Im persuaded these delays wouldve caused her additional stress at an already 
difficult time. Im satisfied this is a fair amount on the basis that the delays werent lengthy 
and made no difference to the overall outcome of the claim, which Ill come onto below.
Panel solicitor arrangement
I understand Mrs C is concerned about Amtrusts choice of solicitor. She says shes aware 
that Amtrust normally uses a solicitor that Ill refer to as Firm A. But in her case, it has used 
Firm B. She believes that Amtrust sent her case to Firm A but that they were conflicted due 
to acting for the other side. She says Amtrust shouldve declared the conflict of interest.
Like all other legal expenses insurers, Amtrust has arrangements with a panel of different 
solicitors firms. Both Firm A and Firm B are on its panel, and its Amtrusts decision what firm 
it instructs based on the circumstances of the case and the agreements it has in place.
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Firm A were instructed on this case. But even if they 
were, I dont think Amtrust are required to declare the conflict of interest if it didnt go on to 
use them for the assessment.
Mrs C has also raised concerns that Amtrust didnt disclose the details of Firm B or the 
lawyer that conducted the assessment. She found their details following a SAR request. I 
appreciate Mrs Cs comments that Amtrust hasnt acted with openness or transparency here.
But theres no requirement for Amtrust to provide this information, and some insurers wont if 
the assessment has been obtained for the purposes of establishing cover only. What Mrs C 
needs to know is the substance of the advice, so that she can understand why the claim was 
declined. And Im satisfied that she was given this information.
Mrs C is aware, following her SAR, what Amtrust paid Firm B for the legal assessment and 
subsequent reassessment. Shes concerned that the amount paid was minimal, which 
wouldve impacted the amount of work undertaken to assess her case.But the commercial arrangements with panel solicitors often include an agreement that work 
will be conducted at a fixed fee, usually at discounted rates. This is based on the volumes of 
work the insurer will provide the firm. For this reason, Im not persuaded the fees paid had 
any impact on the quality of the work undertaken.
Legal assessment
The terms and conditions of Mrs Cs legal expenses insurance policy says cover is only 
available while there are prospects of success defined as a more than 50% chance of 
winning the case and achieving a positive outcome.
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if 
advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes.
In this case, Amtrust obtained the advice of a panel firm. And they were of the opinion that, 
based on the information available, the claim had prospects of around 30-40%. So the policy 
terms and conditions had not been met.
Having considered the legal assessment, Im satisfied its properly written and well-reasoned. 
And its been obtained from a suitably qualified lawyer. So I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Amtrust shouldnt rely on it.
Rather its up to Mrs C to obtain a contrary legal opinion on the merits of her claim, at her 
own cost if she wants to challenge this further. If such an opinion is supportive then Amtrust 
should reconsider the claim.
I appreciate Mrs C believes Amtrust hasnt passed on all available evidence to the solicitors, 
but Amtrust say it has. I know there were problems initially with Amtrust receiving Mrs Cs 
emails due to the size. So I would suggest she clarifies with Amtrust exactly what evidence it 
has. And if there is anything additional, she should submit this to enable Amtrust to seek a 
further reassessment.
Responses to my provisional decision
Amtrust disagrees with the compensation awarded. It refers to an investigators opinion on 
another complaint with our service which says that a five working day turnaround for 
responses isnt unreasonable and that a business service standards are a commercial 
decision it is entitled to make.
Mrs C doesnt accept that the legal opinion obtained by Amtrust was from a suitably qualified 
lawyer because the author of the assessment is a paralegal. But Mrs C appears to accept 
the remainder of the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Amtrusts comments regarding its service standards. To clarify, its not my role 
to determine whether its five working day turnaround time is fair and reasonable. And thats 
not what Ive done here. 
Its my role to decide whether Amtrust has acted promptly and fairly, in accordance with its 
obligations under ICOBS, in the individual circumstances of this complaint. Ive thought 
about Amtrusts submissions following my provisional decision. But Im still not persuaded 
that it dealt with this claim as promptly as it could have. 
I dont intend to repeat my provisional decision here, but Ive identified specific times when 
Amtrust allowed this claim to be put back into its five working day turnaround when it wasnt 
appropriate to do so given the time restraints involved. 
In particular, on 8 February 2021 Amtrust were on notice that Mrs Cs supporting documents 
hadnt been received due to restrictions on its email system. Mrs C said she would resend 
them separately that day. So its not clear why Amtrust felt it was appropriate for this claim to 
be put back into the turnaround, when Mrs C had already waited five days for her claim to be 
picked up and it was due to circumstances beyond her control that her documents werent 
received.
Furthermore, on 8 March 2021 Amtrust chased the solicitors for the legal assessment. As 
the claims handler was aware of the urgency  having highlighted this to the solicitors  its 
not clear why the claim would go back into the turnaround again when the assessment was 
then received that same day. 
Whilst a business will have processes in place on how it deals with incoming 
correspondence, these processes shouldnt come before the best interests of a legal claim. 
And it doesnt absolve a business obligations under ICOBS. There will be situations where it 
is common sense and good judgement that its not appropriate for a claim to be left 
unactioned for five working days and Ive identified several circumstances in the handling of 
this claim where that is the case.
Ive also thought about Mrs Cs concerns over whether the legal assessment was obtained 
from a suitably qualified lawyer, due to the author being a paralegal. But its common 
practice for a paralegal to undertake a prospects assessment and this is done so with the 
supervision of a senior colleague. So Im not persuaded that Amtrust cant rely on this 
opinion. 
Having considered the submissions from both sides, Ive reached the same conclusion as 
set out in my provisional decision for the reasons explained.
My final decision
Im upholding the complaint and direct Amtrust Europe Limited to pay compensation of £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman