DRN-3266585
The complaint
Mr W complains about Protector Insurance UKs decision to decline a claim for an escape of 
water under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2021 Mr W became aware of an escape of water from his bathroom, which was 
leaking into the flat below. He made a claim to Protector and it arranged for the damage to 
be inspected. Mr W says the assessor took some photos and told him he would be covered 
for the damages. He subsequently found out that his claim had been declined. Mr W says he 
cant afford the £5,000 it will cost to repair the damage. 
Protector says it arranged two inspections of the damage. It declined Mr Ws claim because 
the escape of water was caused by defective sealant and tile grouting. It says this cause is 
excluded in its policy terms and was identified during both inspections.
Mr W says he only used the shower during the pandemic lockdown, as he usually showers 
at the gym. He says the property is in a good state of repair and doesnt think the damage is 
his fault. He says the tiles have been fixed to the wall on a plywood sheet, which isnt the 
correct method. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Protectors decision to decline his claim, so he referred the matter to 
our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He thought Protectors view that the 
deteriorated grouting caused the leak was persuasive. As a result, he felt Protector had fairly 
relied on a policy exclusion to decline the claim. 
Mr W didnt accept our investigators findings and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for him, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Mr W has raised concerns regarding legal issues with his property, the insurance premiums 
paid by his property management agent as well as issues with how his bathroom was 
constructed. These issues are for Mr W to raise separately with the relevant parties. Im not 
considering these points here. My remit is to consider whether Protector treated Mr W fairly 
when declining his claim for an escape of water.  
The cover provided by Mr Ws policy includes escape of water as an insurable event. I think 
its clear there was an escape of water. This isnt disputed. Protector arranged for an 
inspection of the damage, which is something wed expect an insurer to do. From the 
records a second inspection was arranged because Mr W didnt think the first was extensive 
enough. 
The first inspection report says:
We are of the opinion the loss relates to an escape of water from the tile grouting/bathroom 
sealant within the bathroom area 
The second report says:
Grout cracked and missing behind bath taps Water ingression through grout and loose 
wall tiles, from behind taps only when showering. See photos Shower/bath area, tiles have 
been stuck onto a plysheet board behind wall tiles, grout has fallen out water has ingressed 
into the plysheet board and expanded causing tiles to become bose [sic] Allowing water to 
pour down inbetween tiles and plysheet. Causing damage to flat below As a temporary 
solution taped up tiles and covered with a black bag so water runs into the bath.
Photos were taken at both inspections. From the second inspection photos show the tiles 
directly behind the bath taps, beneath the shower. There are areas where grout is clearly 
missing. The inspector illustrated the loose tiles by tilting them forwards and taking photos. 
Photos were also taken beneath the bath. These show staining due to water leaking through 
the tiles above. 
The second report is more detailed than the first. But both conclude the same cause for the 
escape of water, which is the deteriorated grouting, with further comment in the second 
report about loose tiles.  
The Exclusions section of the policy terms on page 31 say:
1. Damage caused by or consisting of
a. Inherent vice, latent defect, gradual deterioration, wear and tear, frost, change in water 
table level, its own faulty or defective design or materials;
b. Faulty or defective workmanship.
Protector says both its inspectors concluded the damage had occurred gradually over a 
period of time. 
Having considered all of this, I think Protectors view is persuasive that the deterioration of 
the grouting and loose tiles is the cause of the escape of water. I sympathise with Mr W that 
he needs to carry out repairs. But the policy terms exclude cover when this is caused by 
gradual deterioration or wear and tear. Because of this I think Protector behaved fairly in 
relying on the terms of its policy and declining the claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do 
anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman