DRN-2915572
The complaint
Mr G has complained to Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited (Quilter) about 
mortgage advice he received in late 2012.  In summary, he said the advice was unsuitable 
and the repayment vehicle was too high-risk.
What happened
In 2012 Mr G was contacted by a firm called Eco Resorts whilst he was looking to dispose of 
his timeshare.  He was advised that his timeshare could be taken over by an investment 
company if he made a purchase of an off-plan property overseas.  Mr G was told that if he 
funded the purchase by raising money by way of a mortgage on his existing property, the 
investment company would also cover the monthly mortgage payments.
Mr G was then referred to an adviser, acting on behalf of Quilter, who provided him with 
mortgage advice.  Mr G took out a buy-to-let mortgage on a second property which he 
owned unencumbered, but which his mother lived in rent-free.
The mortgage proceeds were used to invest in the overseas property development, and until 
January 2015 the investment company paid the cost of servicing the mortgage.  The 
investment property was due to be completed in 2016, but it failed, and Mr G lost his money.
In July 2019, represented by a firm of solicitors, Mr G made his complaint to Quilter.  
Quilter responded saying that this Service couldnt deal with the complaint.  In summary it 
said:
The complaint was about a non-regulated activity.
The complaint was made outside of the applicable time limits.
The mortgage advice was suitable and affordable for Mr G.
No investment advice was given by its adviser.
The issue of whether Mr Gs complaint falls within the jurisdiction of our Service to deal with 
was considered by a fellow ombudsman.  He concluded the mortgage was regulated and the 
complaint had been made within the required time limits.
So, one of our investigators considered the complaint made by Mr Gs representative.  The 
investigator explained that the mortgage advisers obligations were set out in the Mortgage 
Conduct of Business rules (MCOB).  Overall, she concluded the complaint should not be 
upheld, and said the advice was suitable and affordable for Mr G.
Quilter accepted the investigators assessment and made no further comments.
Mr G didnt accept the assessment, and the solicitors representing him provided a detailed 
response.  Ive taken account of everything it provided, but in summary it said:
The investigator had incorrectly referred to the relevant MCOB provisions that were 
in force at the time of the mortgage.
Mr G made it clear to the adviser that the intended repayment vehicle was the off-
plan overseas property investment.  It is also clear that Mr G did not intend to sell his 
existing second property to repay the debt as it was not listed as the intended 
repayment vehicle by the adviser.
If the investment was to fail, it was not a viable option to use the second property as 
a repayment vehicle as Mr Gs mother lived there and she would lose her home.
Affordability and suitability are separate concepts, and although Mr G could afford to 
maintain the monthly costs, he did not have the assets in place to repay the 
mortgage capital.
An off-plan overseas property investment is not a suitable repayment vehicle for an 
interest only mortgage.
The mortgage was unsuitable due to the fact it was interest-only, for a short term of 
11 years, and linked to a high-risk repayment vehicle.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to review afresh 
and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached much the same conclusions as the investigator  
and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I should say that Im aware of the issues previously raised about the jurisdiction of 
our Service to consider Mr Gs complaint.  Another ombudsman explained why the complaint 
is one we can deal with, and having reviewed everything I agree:
Despite being sold as a buy-to-let mortgage, as Mr Gs mother was in occupation of 
the property at the relevant time, it is a regulated mortgage.
Although the complaint was made in 2019, over six years after the advice, it was 
made within three years from when Mr G ought reasonably to have had cause for 
complaint (triggered by concerns about whether the overseas investment would 
complete as expected and be a suitable repayment vehicle).
So, in this decision Ive focussed on the advice that was given to Mr G by the adviser and 
whether it met the required standards set out in MCOB.
Im aware that Quilters adviser did not give Mr G investment advice about the overseas 
property development.  But he was required to consider whether the mortgage was suitable 
for Mr Gs circumstances  and that included considering how the mortgage was going to be 
repaid.Ive considered all the obligations the adviser had to meet under MCOB, but Ive only set out 
below some of the key provisions I consider most relevant to Mr Gs complaint.
MCOB 4.7.2R states:
A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that it does not make a personal 
recommendation to a customer to enter into a regulated mortgage contract unless the 
regulated mortgage is suitable for that customer.
MCOB 4.7.4R states:
For the purposes of MCOB 4.7.2R:
(1) a regulated mortgage contract will be suitable if, having regard to the facts disclosed 
by the customer and other relevant facts about the customer of which the firm is or 
reasonably should be aware, the firm has reasonable grounds to conclude that:
(a) the customer can afford to enter into the regulated mortgage contract;
(b) the regulated mortgage contract is appropriate for the needs and circumstances 
of the customer; and
(c) the regulated mortgage contract is the most suitable of those the firm has 
available to it
MCOB 4.7.8G states:
A firm may generally rely on any information provided by the customer for the purposes of 
MCOB 4.7.4R(1)(a) unless, taking a common-sense view of this information, it has reason to 
doubt it.
Ive considered the advice Mr G received and the mortgage he was recommended  giving 
particular thought to whether it was affordable and suitable for his needs and circumstances.
Im satisfied that it was affordable for Mr G to maintain the cost of servicing the mortgage.  
The monthly payments were £110.39 and the adviser had carried out checks to ensure Mr G 
had sufficient income to cover the interest costs.  However, in this case, the key issue is 
whether Mr G would be able to repay the capital sum at the end of the 11-year mortgage 
term.
In the notes from the fact find meeting dated 5 November 2012 the adviser had with Mr G, it 
was recorded that:
[Mr G] has an unencumbered property he would like to re-mortgage this to raise capital to 
purchase another property.
[Mr G] would like a buy to let mortgage with sale of property as a repayment vehicle.
This seems to suggest that Mr G was proposing to use the sale of his second property as 
the method of repaying the mortgage debt at the end of its term.  However, in the suitability 
and recommendations letter the adviser issued to Mr G dated 23 November 2012 something 
different is suggested.
The letter set out a summary of Mr Gs personal circumstances and details of the proposed 
mortgage.  It included a section headed Repayment Options in which the adviser explained:Your preference was for a mortgage where part or all of your mortgage is repaid from the 
proceeds of an investment vehicle
From the information you have disclosed you do not currently have investments in place to 
be able to repay the loan when it falls due at the end of the term and you do not wish any 
advice from me at this point in time with regards to a suitable investment strategy.
Instead, this suggests to me that Mr G was intending to use the investment he was planning 
to make in an overseas off-plan property (using the mortgage proceeds) as the repayment 
strategy.
Ive considered the situation and advice in context of whether the adviser believed the 
repayment vehicle would be the sale of the mortgaged second home, or the overseas 
investment property.
I understand Mr Gs solicitor says it was not a viable solution to sell the second property as it 
was home to Mr Gs mother.  But Im not entirely persuaded that Mr G had made that clear 
to the adviser  as its not recorded in the documents from the time and the mortgage 
recommendation was for a buy-to-let product.  So, in my view, had the second property been 
intended as a repayment vehicle it would have been reasonable for the adviser to have 
relied upon that.
As set out above, MCOB 4.7.8G says the adviser could rely upon what he was told by Mr G 
 and I cant see any reason that he had had to doubt that it was a buy-to-let property, rather 
than his mothers home.
However, given the content of the recommendations letter, Im persuaded it was likely that 
the adviser did understand it was to be a new investment that would be used to repay the 
mortgage.  In deciding whether the mortgage was suitable on that basis, Ive considered 
what the adviser knew.
The adviser hadnt given advice to Mr G about the overseas property, and Ive no reason to 
think he was familiar with the specific features of the investment.  In fact, I note that he 
offered to give investment advice, but it was declined by Mr G.  In those circumstances, the 
adviser would have known that Mr G would have mortgage proceeds of £36,000 available to 
invest  and that he intended to use those funds to invest in property.  As he wasnt giving 
advice on the proposed property investment, Im satisfied it was reasonable for the adviser 
to rely upon what Mr G was telling him and accept that the investment would generate the 
funds necessary to repay the mortgage capital within the 11-year mortgage term.
I appreciate the property development may have been high-risk, but given that the adviser 
wasnt assessing investment suitability and had limited knowledge of its features, it was 
reasonable for him to accept what Mr G told him as being a realistic repayment strategy. 
Understandably Mr G had expected the investment to succeed, otherwise he wouldnt have 
made it  and in fact, that continued to be the case for some time as I note he invested a 
further payment of £6,000 in 2015.
So overall, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint. Im 
satisfied the adviser considered the loan to be affordable and suitable for the needs and 
circumstances of Mr G. In reaching those conclusions he reasonably relied upon the 
information provided to him by Mr G and Im not persuaded he had any reason to question it.
I realise Mr G will be disappointed, and I have some sympathy with his situation as it seems 
he has been let down by the investment he made. However, he wasnt given investment advice with his mortgage, and having reviewed everything Im satisfied the adviser met his 
obligations under MCOB.  I must assure Mr G that I have considered everything afresh and 
reached my decision impartially.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Quilter Financial Planning 
Solutions Limited  and so I wont be asking it to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman