DRN-4288596
The complaint
Mr M and Ms M have complained about Nationwides actions to remove Ms M from a joint 
account with her son - Mr M. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and are set out in the 
investigators view of 20 July 2023, so I wont repeat them all again here. But briefly:
Mr M held an account in joint names with his mother  Ms M. Both parties consent and 
authorisation were needed to use the account. The account was set up in this way so Mr M 
couldnt access the account without his mothers agreement due to his vulnerabilities. On 21 
March 2020, two credits of £25,000 and £82,653.60 credited the account. As I understand it 
- Ms Ms sister paid in the money following the death of Ms Ms parents (so Mr Ms 
grandparents). Mr M began transferring funds to his sole account with another bank. In July 
2020, Mr M submitted a removal of account holder form to remove his mother from the joint 
savings account. This was actioned by Nationwide on 17 August 2020. 
Mr M continued transferring funds to his own account elsewhere until around the end of 
2021. It seems Ms M became aware of this and complained to Nationwide. After 
investigating the matter, Nationwide said it made an error in processing the removal of 
account holder form. It appears that Mr M signed the form on behalf of Ms M without her 
knowledge or consent as the signature didnt match Ms Ms. It acknowledged that it should 
not have removed Ms M from the account, and it has already paid £450 in recognition of the 
distress its error has caused. 
The account has recently been returned to a joint account status. 
Ms M feels that Nationwide should accept some liability for the loss and would like it to 
refund the full amount that was withdrawn after she was removed from the account.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He recommended Nationwide pay Ms M a 
further £1,050 compensation to make a total of £1,500. He felt that, whilst Nationwide 
removed Ms M in error, it did so following a very deliberate request from one of the account 
holders. He also felt it would not be reasonable to ask Nationwide to refund the money that 
Mr M has spent and benefitted from.
Ms M did not accept the investigators opinion. Nationwide accepted the investigators view 
and agreed to pay an additional £1,050.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for broadly the 
same reasons.
Its not in dispute that Nationwide made a mistake in removing Ms M from the joint bank 
account. Whats in dispute is how Nationwide should put things right for Mr M and Ms M.
I note that Ms M has suggested the complaint be set up in her own name  but this is a joint 
account and all eligible complaints should be party to the complaint. Its also important to 
note - this is an informal service and I can only decide the complaint between the business 
and the joint account holders. I cannot require one account holder to pay another. 
I know Ms M considers that but for Nationwides actions, the money would still be in the 
account. I do appreciate Ms Ms frustration. Whilst Nationwide made a mistake, it would not 
be fair or reasonable for me to ask it to pay the sum of money Mr M transferred out. 
Once the funds were paid into the account, they became the possession of both account 
holders. So, the money no longer belonged to one person or the other.
One of the account holders  Mr M - has already had the benefit of the use of that money. 
Its disappointing that Mr M has not fully disclosed to this service or to Ms M what he did with 
the funds once in his other bank account (and despite trying we have not been able to get 
hold of that information). But it seems from whats been said - the vast majority of the funds 
were spent on takeaways and online subscription services. 
It doesnt matter here because its clear that Mr M has benefitted from those funds. It simply 
would not be fair or reasonable for the account (a joint account in both Mr Ms and Ms Ms 
name) - to be compensated again. This could doubly benefit the account holders if an 
amount representative of the funds was credited back to the account.
It seems Ms M feels she is entitled to the money Mr M spent  but that is a dispute between 
Ms M and her son. Im not saying that Ms M is not entitled to the funds. That is not a matter I 
can or need to decide here. As Ive said above, I can only decide the case between 
Nationwide and the joint holders of the account  one of whom has had the benefit of the 
money now claimed. And I cant decide a dispute between account holders.
I understand this matter has caused Ms M distress and inconvenience. I think it is also worth 
noting here that one of the account holders  Mr M - dishonestly forged the other account 
holder signature in order to remove them from the account - which resulted in the error made 
by Nationwide. 
Nationwide has agreed to pay an additional £1,050 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused. It has also agreed to pay this direct to Ms M. 
Compensation is not intended to punish Nationwide, or  for the reasons I have already 
explained - reflect the claimed loss Ms M says has arisen. I find that Nationwides offer is a 
fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Nationwide Building Society should pay Ms M an additional 
£1,050 for the distress and inconvenience on top of the £450 it has paid. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Nationwide Building 
Society to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman