DRN-3044007
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he was financing through an agreement with Black 
Horse Limited, trading as Jaguar Financial Services (Black Horse).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr P. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Black Horse were responsible for the 
cars quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
This fault was first identified later than that, so the relevant legislation puts the onus on Mr P 
to demonstrate the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. I think hes done that.
The independent inspector is an expert in these matters, and it was his view that the 
creaking present wasnt to be expected on a vehicle of this age and mileage. The relevant 
legislation says that when we consider whether a car has been of satisfactory quality we 
should consider whether its been durable. I dont think the car has been durable as I dont 
think a new vehicle should develop a fault that is, in the opinion of an expert, not to be 
expected on a car of that age.
I note that Black Horse have suggested thats what the vehicle warranty is for, but the 
presence of a warranty doesnt change Black Horses duty under the relevant legislation to 
provide goods that are of satisfactory quality. They are still, therefore; responsible for putting 
matters right.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to fix a fault such as this that was 
present, or developing, at the point of supply. I think Black Horse has had that opportunity as 
Mr P has provided job cards that show the creaking was considered by the dealership in 
January, April and May 2019 but wasnt resolved. 
As the business have had their opportunity to fix the problem and that fix has failed, the 
relevant legislation may suggest Mr P should be able to reject the car. 
But I dont think rejection would be a proportionate response here as despite evidence of the 
fault I can see that Mr P paid the balloon payment on the car and took ownership of it at the 
end of his agreement. I think its therefore reasonable to suggest that with knowledge of the 
fault Mr P still thought the car was of adequate quality and the fault didnt merit him returning 
the vehicle, as he could have done at the end of the agreement.
Mr P has explained that when he bought the car he was accepting of the manufacturers 
advice and expertise to resolve the issue but that it was only after the emergence of the 
technical bulletin relating to manufacturing issues and the failed repair attempt (based on the 
technical bulletin) that it became apparent the business couldnt resolve the issue. But, 
Im not persuaded that Mr P would have had sufficient assurance when he agreed to take 
ownership of the car that the issues could have been resolved. It was apparent that the 
business had had several attempts to repair the car and theyd all failed. 
But whilst I dont think it would be fair to tell Black Horse to reject the car, they should still 
compensate Mr P for the lack of use he had from the car from the point at which I can see he 
first raised the issue in January 2019. The creaking noise didnt stop Mr P driving the car, but 
I accept the constant creaking would have been concerning and have impacted his 
enjoyment of the car. And the visits to the dealership for investigation would have impacted 
on his use of the car. In those circumstances I think the business should refund 10% of the 
payments Mr P made to his finance agreement from January 2019 until he took ownership of 
the vehicle. 
Mr P has also been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had, for instance, to take the car 
to the dealership for investigation, organise an independent inspection and escalate his 
complaint to this service. In the circumstances, I think the business should therefore pay him 
£300 in compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Black Horse Limited to:
refund 10% of finance instalments paid from, and including, January 2019 and add 
8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr P £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman