DRN-3734521
The complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined a claim for storm 
damage to his propertys roof.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So I wont repeat them again 
here. Ill focus instead on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
When our service looks at a complaint about a storm claim, there are three questions to
consider:
1. Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage is said to have
happened?
2. Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were likely to uphold a complaint if the answers to all three questions is yes and were
unlikely to uphold a complaint if the answer to any of the questions is no. Ill deal with each
of the questions in turn.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Using the resources this service has access to, Ive checked the weather conditions around
the time the damage occurred in the vicinity of the insured property. And the evidence 
provided by Mr R shows there were weather warnings in place and there was a named 
storm event around that time.
The policy doesnt specifically define a Storm, so Ive used our services usual approach to 
these types of cases. And Im persuaded that there couldve been storm conditions present 
due to the warnings given and the wind speeds and rainfall that was recorded at the time.
Do I agree that the damage claimed for is consistent with damage that a storm typically
causes?
Im not persuaded that the damage claimed for is the type of damage a storm would usually 
cause. High winds of this force could potentially cause roof tiles to become loose or 
damaged. However, in this case there does not appear to be damage to the roof surface. 
The only damage I have been able to identify from the evidence, including photographs, is 
the torn felt beneath the roof structure.
Due to the position of the damaged felt, which is underneath the roof tiles and solar panels 
which do not appear to be damaged, I find it unlikely that the torn felt couldve been caused 
by a storm event. I wouldve expected to see, following a storm which caused damage to the 
underside of a roof, greater damage to the external roof area. But thats not what the 
photographs show.
Do I agree that the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage?
Aviva didnt think the storm was the main cause of the damage. Its surveyors notes say
there was evidence of wear and tear, namely perished under-felt. And that the felt has likely 
torn gradually over a period of time, rather than as a result of a one-off storm event.
Ive reviewed the photographs that have been provided by the surveyor to support his
conclusions. I think the commentary provided is consistent with what I can see in the photos, 
because I cant see any storm damage to the upper side of the roof. The solar panels also 
look undamaged in the photographs. So I do think its more likely that the damage to the 
under-felt has been caused gradually over time, rather than by the one-off storm event. 
The policy says, under General Exceptions, that loss or damage arising from gradual 
causes and wear and tear isnt covered. And based on the evidence provided, Im satisfied 
Aviva hasnt acted unreasonably by applying this exclusion, because I dont think the storm 
was the main or dominant cause of the damage.
Mr R says hes provided reports from professional contractors attesting to the fact that the 
damage was caused by a storm. But Im afraid I dont find his comments or the letters hes 
provided as persuasive as the report from the loss adjuster who initially inspected the 
property. This is because the comments from the loss adjuster are more detailed, and 
provide a reasonable explanation and supporting evidence to demonstrate how the felt 
underneath the roof wouldve been damaged over time. 
The loss adjusters report shows no damage externally to the tiles or solar panels. This 
contradicts the opinion of the professionals who have provided letters on behalf of Mr R. 
Theyve said the high winds have caused the panels to move up and down breaking the 
battens and cracking tiles covering the roof. But Ive seen no evidence of this and this isnt 
what the photographs show, which is a roof which is externally in fair condition. For the 
amount of damage to the felt to be caused, which can be seen in the internal photos, Id 
expect to see more impact on the external part of the roof too. And I find Avivas comments 
more persuasive because the photographs do suggest some long-term damage to the 
under-felt, in several areas. The felt appears in the photographs to be worn and discoloured, 
as Aviva has said.
So based on the information available, Im more persuaded by Avivas position that
the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage. So I cant say its decision to decline the 
claim was unfair or unreasonable.
I understand Mr R will be disappointed with my decision. But Im afraid that for the reasons
Ive explained, Im not requiring the Aviva to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman