DRN-3614453
The complaint
Mr A says Nationwide Building Society treated him unfairly when he tried to make transfers
from his accounts and close them down.
What happened
The facts of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will only provide a summary of
the key points of the complaint.
In June 2021 Mr A attended his local Nationwide branch to close his Nationwide accounts
and transfer his funds. Mr A attended the branch with his brother, Mr A2, who represents Mr
A in this complaint.
During the conversations that took place at the meeting, the branch manager explained that
the accounts couldnt be closed at this time as there were welfare concerns for Mr A. Mr A2
says the meeting was very stressful and upsetting for Mr A and the bank manager acted
unprofessionally.
Mr A2 raised a complaint on behalf of Mr A about the service received. Nationwide reviewed
the complaint and found its member of staff had acted reasonably in declining the account
closure request. Nationwide explained the bank manager had concerns and it has a duty to
act in the best interest of its members. On this occasion the account closure and transfer
were declined until further enquiries could be made. Nationwide did however accept that
there was an error in processing the power of attorney forms for Mr A2 and it offered Mr A
£50 in recognition of this error.
Dissatisfied with Nationwides response Mr A2 referred the complaint to this service. An
investigator reviewed Mr A2s concerns about how Mr A had been treated and found that
Nationwide had acted fairly given the circumstances. They found Nationwide had acted in
line with its processes and its decision to make further enquiries before agreeing to Mr As
request was fair.
Unhappy with the investigators review, Mr A2 ask for an ombudsman to review the
complaint.
I looked at Mr As case and issued by provisional decision on 9 January 2023.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a great deal of correspondence on this complaint and many complaint points have
been raised. I will, however, focus on issues which are - in my opinion - relevant to reaching
a fair outcome to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. It simply reflects the
informal nature of our service.
The branch meeting
The meeting in branch with Mr A and Mr A2 is the source of many of the issues Mr A2 has
raised. I have carefully considered Mr A2s comments about the experience and impact on
Mr A, alongside Nationwides comments. Based on the evidence I have seen I dont think it
was unreasonable for Nationwide to decline Mr As request to close his account and transfer
out the funds. I will explain why.
Mr A contacted the branch via letter asking for a meeting as he wished to close all his
accounts and transfer money to Mr A2. The branch manager agreed to this request, and
Mr A attended with Mr A2. Mr A wished to close his accounts with Nationwide and transfer
the funds to another account. The branch manager asked some questions about this request
and felt that it wasnt appropriate to agree to it immediately. Instead, the branch manager
thought it best to refer the issue to Nationwides specialist services team, as she wanted to
ensure Mr As best interests were being considered. The branch manager says the
interaction was tense and Mr A2 was unhappy with the fact the transaction had been
declined. Mr A2 says the manager was unprofessional and insensitive during these
discussions, and this has left Mr A unwilling to attend the branch again.
I understand the branch managers version of events and Mr A2s recollections differ. In
cases where there is conflicting information, I have to take a view as to what I consider, on
balance, is the most likely situation. I appreciate the branch managers questions, comments
and ultimately her decision to not action the request was upsetting and frustrating for Mr A.
However, based on the information available at the time I think it was reasonable for her to
refer the issue to Nationwides specialist team. Nationwide, like other financial institutions is
obligated to consider consumer requests like Mr As in line with regulatory guidance. This
includes safeguarding considerations for customers that may be vulnerable or susceptible to
economic abuse. In Mr As case although he had the relevant authority to deal with his
affairs, the branch manager was aware of his health situation and felt it prudent to ensure
the transfers would be in his best interest.
It is also important to note that although the account closures werent carried out at this
stage, this didnt mean they wouldnt be possible once Nationwides enquiries were
completed. This initial inconvenience seems unavoidable given the circumstances.
Nationwides enquiries
Following the branch visit, Mr As request and the circumstances of his request were referred
to Nationwides specialist services team. This team decided to contact social services to
gather more information about Mr As situation.
It is not unusual for businesses like Nationwide to contact other organisations to gather
information about a customers welfare. I can see social services attempted to contact Mr A,
and it eventually spoke to him in September 2021. The social worker was satisfied there
were no welfare or safeguarding concerns for Mr A and there was no need for their 
involvement.
Whilst the case was awaiting an ombudsman decision further information was requested
from Nationwide about what happened after it made a referral to social services. The
provision of information has been sparse, but what has been provided shows that
Nationwide was aware of the development with social services, and that there were no
financial harm concerns. Its internal notes indicate that Mr A was to attend the branch to
progress the transfer. However, looking at the available evidence I cant see that Mr A and
Mr A2 were clearly made aware that Nationwide had completed its review, and Mr A was
able to proceed with his account closure requests. Given Mr A and Mr A2 were toldNationwide was carrying out a review, I wouldve expected Nationwide to inform them of the
outcome of this review as soon as possible. I cant see that this was done until October 2022
when Mr A was sent a letter confirming all restrictions on his accounts had been removed.
Nationwide says it was awaiting Mr A to attend branch to action the transfer of funds and
account closures. But Mr A2 has explained that given the negative experience Mr A had
when he attended branch in June 2021 he was unwilling to attend, and he expected his
request to be declined again as he hadnt heard anything different from Nationwide. 
Nationwide says it was awaiting further contact from Mr A and if the request was urgent it
wouldve expected him to attend branch as soon as possible. But I dont agree with this view
 Mr A had raised a complaint about the service he received and Nationwides decision to
block his account closure request. Mr A was unaware of the enquiries Nationwide was
making and the extent of its review. So, I think its reasonable for Mr A to have awaited
confirmation from Nationwide that he could proceed with his request before attending his
local branch again.
Looking at the timeline of events it seems that for over 12 months Mr A wasnt clearly
updated about the status of his account and the progress of Nationwides further enquires.
Nationwides lack of clarity and communication on this has drawn out Mr As complaint, and
he has experienced further distress and inconvenience because of this poor communication.
Putting things right
Nationwide should pay Mr A £500 compensation in recognition of the distress and
inconvenience he suffered because of its poor customer service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide replied to the provisional decision, explaining it accepted my recommendation it 
pay Mr A £500 in compensation. Mr A2 responded explaining his reasons for disagreeing 
with the findings within the provisional decision. 
Mr A2 explained the decision didnt adequately address the fact Nationwide couldve 
informed Mr A and Mr A2 of its concerns about the transfer before invited them into branch. 
In particular, Mr A2 says enquiries couldve been made before any meeting took place. 
Ive considered Mr A2s comments. However, looking at the timeline of events I think it only 
became apparent that a referral to Nationwides specialist team was necessary once the 
meeting took place. It was during the meeting that the branch manager was able to ascertain 
the specific details of the request from Mr A and this is what prompted further investigation 
around safeguarding issues. So I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly in allowing Mr A and 
Mr A2 to attend branch in June 2021. 
Mr A2 says the provisional decision is biased and takes the branch managers word over Mr 
A and Mr A2s. The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a consumer champion. So although 
Ive noted Mr A2s comments about our service being biased not being fit for purpose, I must 
stress that we are impartial and do not take the side of either party to a complaint. I have to 
be objective, and neutral, and sometimes that means stepping back from the fine detail, 
taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable and pragmatic in all the overall 
circumstances of the case. With this in mind, when assessing the facts available I have considered what wouldve been 
the reasonable course of action given Mr As transfer request when he visited the branch.  I 
think regardless of the branch managers role in the matter, further enquiries wouldve been 
necessary in order for Nationwide to ensure it was acting in Mr As best interests. This 
wouldve required a separate review, which wouldnt have taken place immediately, so I 
think there wouldve been some delay in processing Mr As request. As the provisional 
decision explains, Nationwides service after this point was poor and there was a lack of 
clear communication, which warranted the compensation outlined in the provisional decision. 
I am sorry to learn of the effect this complaint has had on Mr A and in turn Mr A2.  I hope the 
reasons set out in this decision, alongside my provisional decision, will go some way in 
helping them understand why I wont be asking Nationwide to do any more than outlined in 
my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Nationwide should pay Mr A £500 compensation in recognition of the distress and
inconvenience he suffered because of its poor customer service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Nationwide Building 
Society to put things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman