DRN-1315818
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Covea Insurance plc declined his claim made on his motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr B was involved in an accident with another driver and his car was deemed to be beyond 
economical repair. The other driver made a claim for repairs and personal injury. Covea 
appointed an independent claims investigator to interview the parties involved. But the other 
driver, Mr Bs passenger and the recovery driver didnt respond to interview requests. Covea 
thought it was justified in declining the claim as it didnt believe Mr Bs version of events. Mr 
B thought this was unfair.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it wasnt Mr 
Bs fault that the other people involved hadnt co-operated with the investigator.  He thought 
Covea didnt have enough information to disprove Mr Bs version of events. He thought it 
should continue investigating the claim and try to obtain information from the parties. 
Covea replied that it wouldnt deal with the claim and was prepared to go to court to defend 
this stance. Mr B replied that Covea had scrapped his car without his authorisation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea asked to speak with me before I made my final decision. But I dont think this is 
necessary or fair as I need to rely on the evidence provided.
Covea said it had declined Mr Bs claim because of serious concerns with the validity of 
the alleged incident as a whole.  I can see that Mr Bs policy entitles Covea to decline to pay 
a claim which is false or exaggerated.  I dont think this is unusual, but I would expect Covea 
to reasonably investigate a claim before deciding this.
I can see that Covea considered Mr Bs report of the accident circumstances, the failure of 
the other parties to co-operate with its investigator, Mr Bs relationship with the other parties, 
and the lack of a log number provided by the attending police. 
But I agree with the investigator that this isnt enough for it to reasonably decline Mr Bs 
claim at this time. I cant see that Covea has provided evidence to show that its more likely 
than not that Mr Bs claim wasnt valid. And I cant see that Covea has provided a 
reasonable explanation for its decision to Mr B. I cant see that Covea asked Mr B to provide 
answers to explain its concerns about the claim. So I havent seen evidence that Covea has 
given Mr B a chance to prove that his claim is genuine or address its concerns.The appointed investigator made several attempts to contact the other parties involved 
without success. But I dont think its reasonable to hold Mr B responsible for the relevant 
parties failure to provide statements. He provided his own statement and contact details for 
the parties involved, as required by his policy. I also cant see that Covea has contacted the 
attending police or ambulance services to check if anything was reported. 
The other drivers claim was made through an accident management company. But I cant 
see that Covea asked the company for a statement from the driver or evidence of his losses 
(repairs, hire charges, personal injury report).
Mr B was also unhappy that Covea disposed of his car without his consent. But I cant see 
that Mr B has raised this concern with Covea to give it a chance to respond. So I think Mr B 
should firstly complain to Covea about this. If hes unhappy with its response, he can bring 
his complaint to us.   
Putting things right
To put things right, I agree with the investigator that Covea should continue its investigation 
and seek to obtain further information from the relevant parties involved, i.e. Mr B, the 
accident management company, the police and ambulance services.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to further 
investigate Mr Bs claim as set out above.  
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman