DRN-2468900
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly refused his claim brought under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This was in relation to consequential losses he says he 
incurred due to a faulty boiler installation.
What happened
Mr K is represented in this complaint by his wife. But for ease of reading Ill just refer to him.
Mr K tells us that in 2019 he arranged to have a new gas boiler and central heating system 
supplied and fitted by a business Ill refer to as G. And that this was paid for through his 
Santander credit card. Mr K says that Gs fitter made numerous mistakes and that overall the 
work didnt meet the required standards. He explains that as a result of the poor work Gas 
Safe engineers declared the gas supply unsafe. Mr K states that some of the faults have 
been corrected and a Gas Safe certificate issued. But he says that hes had to pay another 
company Ill refer to as JH, to do extra works including refitting larger pipes and re-siting 
valves. And that this cost £1,560. He feels this should be refunded to him.
Santander told us that it accepted that G had been told by a Gas Safe inspector that there 
were issues with the fitting that required correction. It said that G had returned and done the 
required work. And that a Gas Safe certificate had now been issued. As any breach of 
contract had been remedied it said it hadnt upheld Mr Ks complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that 
remedial work had been carried out to correct the earlier errors. He accepted that Mr K had 
work carried out by JH to replace pipes with a larger size and re-site valves. But he said that 
hed not seen anything such as an independent inspection report to say that this had been 
required due to failings by G.
Mr K didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr K experienced some inconvenience after the initial faults in installing his 
boiler. And I accept it would be troubling and upsetting that these faults resulted in safety 
issues being potentially compromised. 
Mr Ks complaint is about the boiler he purchased being fitted in the wrong location with the 
wrong diameter of pipe (22mm not 28mm) being used. And what he feels is the generally 
poor standard of workmanship. And he says that whilst some errors have been corrected, 
hes had to have additional work carried out.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer a like claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
In order for Santander to be liable it would need to be shown that any breach of contract 
hadnt been remedied. And that any of the alleged consequential losses arose directly from 
and as a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the breach.
Its not in dispute that after the original fitting, Mr K was told that remedial works were 
required and that the installation didnt meet the required standards. And that subsequently, 
G had arranged for repair works to be carried out in line with the Gas Safe inspectors 
requirements. 
That leaves the issue of the size of the pipes and the re-siting of the valves as the remaining 
unresolved matters relating to Mr Ks complaint.
Ive noted that the Gas Safe inspection report of 31 May 2019 referred to 22mm pipes. But 
that was in terms of them being inadequately supported. Its reasonable to infer that if the 
inspector had determined they were unsuitable, unsafe, or didnt otherwise comply with 
regulations by reason of size, hed have said so. 
I cant say - in the absence of any specific documentation showing that G had been 
contracted to supply 28mm diameter pipes as opposed to those of 22mm  that theres been 
any breach of contract.
Similarly, Ive not seen anything that shows the re-siting of the valves was the result of any 
error by G. Ive seen a text message exchange about the issue in which building regulations 
are mentioned. And there was brief reference to a supposed conversation about the valves 
being accessible via a hatch. Although Mr K is denying any discussion about a hatch 
occurred. But as theres nothing documented which clearly shows that G is in breach of 
contract in respect of where it sited the valves, I cant hold Santander responsible.
In summary, as G corrected the faults that the Gas Safe inspection had identified, it seems 
to have remedied any breach of contract. In those circumstances, Santander was entitled to 
conclude that it had no further liability. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman