DRN-4406944
The complaint
Mr R has complained that he is unhappy with the quality of a van he acquired in January 
2023 using a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, trading as 
Moneybarn (Moneybarn).
What happened
Mr R acquired a used Peugeot van in January 2023, using a using a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. The van was around seven years old, with a mileage of 76,000 
The cost of the van was £9,198, of which Mr R borrowed £7,198 over a term of 48 months, 
with a monthly repayment of £279.19.
In April 2023, Mr R contacted Moneybarn to say that the engine management light had come 
on, and that the van had been recovered to a garage which had stated that the engine 
required replacement. It was later confirmed that the timing belt had snapped and caused 
damage to the engine, which, as a result, needed to be replaced.
In June 2023, Moneybarn told Mr R that it hadnt been able to complete its investigation but 
that he was entitled to bring his complaint to this service, which he did. While we were 
looking into the complaint, Moneybarn told us that the dealership had agreed to cover the 
cost of the repairs, and it was offering an additional amount of £75 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr R. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint, and thought it should be upheld, although she 
recommended a higher amount of compensation in addition to the repair of the van. 
Moneybarn agreed with our investigators recommendations, but Mr R did not  he thinks it 
would be fair for him to reject the van and end the agreement. As Mr R didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality, but I agree 
with our investigators recommendations about compensation. Ill explain why.
Because Moneybarn supplied the van under a conditional sale agreement, its responsible 
for a complaint about the quality, and theres an implied term that the van was of satisfactory 
quality. Vehicles are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the vehicle and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the van is durable  that is, the components within the 
van must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case of course, the van was around seven years old, with a mileage of 76,000 when 
Mr R acquired it. And the price was lower than that of a new van. So its reasonable to 
expect that parts of the van would have suffered a degree of wear and tear, and that a van of 
this age would likely need repair and maintenance sooner than a newer van. 
Ive taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (CRA). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the van, if they dont conform to contract  a short term right to reject within 30 
days of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasnt resulted in 
the van subsequently conforming  that is, it then being of satisfactory quality.
It is accepted that there was a fault with the van - the warranty claim shows that the timing 
belt had snapped and damaged the engine, so the engine needs to be replaced. And the 
dealership has agreed to cover the cost of this. 
The fault occurred three months after Mr R acquired the van, and Im satisfied the fault was 
present or developing at the point of supply. Its likely that the timing belt was nearing the 
end of its lifespan at the point of supply and required a replacement, so Im satisfied Mr R 
shouldnt have to bear the cost. 
Neither party has disputed this, so I dont need to comment further on this point, and Im 
satisfied I should uphold Mr Rs complaint that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.
In terms of redress, our investigator thought that, in addition to the repair cost being covered, 
Mr R should receive a refund of the monthly payments due whilst he couldnt use the van, a 
refund of other out of pocket expenses, and a higher amount in respect of distress and 
inconvenience than Moneybarn had originally suggested. Mr R has explained how his 
mental health has been affected by all this, and I completely understand his distress. 
Moneybarn accepted our investigators findings in full. However, Mr R did not  he thinks he 
should be able to reject the van and end the contract, and get his deposit back. 
Ive looked again at all the evidence, but having thought carefully about what both parties 
have said, I cant fairly say that Mr R is entitled to reject the van at this point. I say this 
because, as I explained above, the relevant law  the CRA  gives the right to reject if a 
repair or replacement hasnt resulted in the van subsequently conforming to contract  that 
is, it then being of satisfactory quality. Moneybarn hasnt had the chance to deal with the 
repair, and at this stage I have no evidence to suggest that the repair wont be successful. 
As a result, I have concluded that fair compensation is as I have set out below. In addition to 
the repair cost being covered, I think it fair that Moneybarn refunds the monthly payments 
due for the period during which Mr R has been unable to use the van, along with the cost of 
recovering the van in April 2023 (on production of the relevant invoice), and an additional 
payment in relation to the distress and inconvenience caused. This has clearly been a very 
difficult period for Mr R, and I am sorry that he has had such a stressful time. 
Putting things right
Moneybarn should: 
Arrange for the collection of the van at no further cost to Mr R, and cover the cost of 
the repairs  these should be carried out within a reasonable timescale;
Refund the monthly repayments due under the contract from the date the fault 
occurred until the date the repair is completed, and the van returned to Mr R;
Refund the cost of recovery of the vehicle, on production of the relevant invoice;Pay 8% simple yearly interest* on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement;
Pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience thats been caused due to the faulty 
goods;
Remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file in relation to the agreement.
*if Moneybarn considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited, trading as Moneybarn, should compensate Mr R as described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman