DRN-3345266
The complaint
Mr B complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited Insurance) didn't fairly 
deal with the rectification work needed to his car following a claim, for damaged glass, under 
his policy.
What happened
Mr B made a claim for damaged glass under his motor insurance policy. Accredited 
Insurance appointed an agent to deal with the repair.  As the repair couldn't be carried out 
immediately, and his car wasnt secure, it was taken into storage.
Whilst in storage the car was covered in some form of plastic sheeting. When the repair was 
carried out and the sheeting was removed a residue was left on the paintwork of Mr B's car.
Mr B contacted Accredited Insurance to report this. Accredited Insurance escalated this to its 
agent for investigation. Three weeks later, the agent told Accredited Insurance it would clean 
Mr B's vehicle and put things right, but Accredited Insurance never relayed this to Mr B. A 
further month passed by before Accredited Insurance checked to see if the rectification work 
had been done, and when it realised it hadnt it contacted Mr B. 
By that time, Mr B had been waiting weeks and so had taken matters into his own hands and 
had the rectification work done himself. Mr B works in the motor industry and this was done, 
as a favour to him, by one of his colleagues and was at no cost to himself.
Accredited Insurance said as Mr B had had the work done there was nothing further it could 
do, and as there was no financial loss to Mr B no compensation was awarded.
Mr B was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service, he said he would like 
£500 in compensation. Our investigator looked into matters and felt that Accredited 
Insurance should have done more and asked it to pay £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr B.
Accredited Insurance didn't agree that the complaint warranted that level of compensation 
and offered to pay £50 to Mr B to resolve matters. Mr B declined this offer and so the matter 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons, I'll explain further below.
Although I've read and considered the whole file, I'll keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I don't comment on a specific point, it's not because I haven't considered it but 
because I don't think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
When Mr B made Accredited Insurance aware of the residue left on his car, following the 
claim, he was entitled to rely on it to arrange for the rectification work to be carried out. But 
because it failed to let him know that its agent would clean the residue from the car, I don't 
think it was unreasonable for him to have this carried out himself. I'm not persuaded, that 
just because this was done as a favour to him, with no financial cost, it means he wasn't 
entitled to be compensated for Accredited Insurance's lack of service here.
Mr B was inconvenienced by having to ask a colleague to do this for him, and 
understandably distressed at the thought that there may be further damage to the paintwork 
on his car. In addition to this the customer service he received from Accredited Insurance in 
relation to this matter was not to the level he should be entitled to expect.
So, it follows I don't believe Accredited Insurance has acted fairly when dealing with this 
issue for Mr B.
Putting things right
Accredited Insurance should pay Mr B £100 for the trouble he has had to go to, to put 
matters right and for the worry this caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr B's complaint about 
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd. I now require it to:
pay Mr B £100 to compensate him as set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman