DRN-3815273
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund a transaction he says he did not make and
does not recognise.
What happened
On 13 August 2021, a payment of just over €1000 was made using Mr Ms debit card. The
merchant appeared on Mr Ms statement as Cie Pari Mutuel and its address was given as
Paris.
On 17 August 2021, the payment was debited from Mr Ms account. There wasnt a sufficient
balance to cover the payment at that time so it left his account with a negative balance.
Mr M thinks his bank account has been hacked. He says that he could not have made this
payment himself as he was at work in Switzerland and has provided his work schedule to
support this. In addition, Mr M says that the payment should never have been accepted as
he didnt have enough money in his account to cover it.
Mr M contacted Revolut and asked to be reimbursed. It declined Mr Ms claim. It concluded
there was no reasonable explanation as to how the payment could have been made without
Mr Ms involvement. In its final response letter, it said that no fraudulent activity had been
found and suggested that Mr M should contact the retailer.
Unhappy with Revoluts position, Mr M referred the complaint to this service. Our
Investigator looked into it but did not recommend that it should be upheld. He said the
disputed transaction had been made on 17 August 2021 at 5.32am and referred to
undisputed payments also being made in Paris on 16 and 17 August 2021. He thought the
transaction was authorised because he could not see how someone could have accessed
Mr Ms card and PIN without him knowing given what hed said about not losing the card,
living alone and not giving the PIN to anyone. He explained that the transaction was made
offline which is why it was not declined due to insufficient funds.
Mr M disagreed. He said hed been a victim of fraud and did not carry out this transaction.
He referred to newspaper articles about card cloning. He thought it was dishonest for
Revolut to allow an offline transaction to go through when the account does not have credit
facilities. He asked for the complaint to be reconsidered.
As no agreement could be reached, Mr Ms complaint was referred to me. I issued my 
provisional decision on 20 December 2020. In it, I explained why I was minded to reach the 
save overall conclusion as our Investigator, but for different reasons. An extract of that 
decision is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When considering what is fair and
reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to
have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In cases when it is not clear what happened, I base my decision on the balance of
probabilities. In other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of
the available evidence.
Theres a lot of money involved in this dispute so I can understand why Mr M is concerned.
But having considered everything thats been said and provided, I currently think Revolut can
fairly hold Mr M liable for the disputed transaction. I will explain why.
When and where was the disputed transaction made?
When Mr M referred his complaint to this service, he said the disputed transaction had been
made on 13 August 2021. But our Investigator said the transaction had been made on
17 August 2021 and at a time when Mr M appeared to have been in Paris. Clearly both of
those positions cannot be correct.
Having looked carefully at Revoluts technical information, the transaction history shows it
was completed on 17 August 2021 at 05:32:49. But the point of sale information says the
transaction was made on 13 August 2021 at 15:23:58. I consider the difference between the
two dates to be because the transaction was made offline. What this means is that the
merchants terminal does not have internet connection in order to verify the transaction in
real time, so the account holder wont see the charge on their bank statement straight away.
Offline transactions are not uncommon and can include transactions made in locations such
as underground ticket machines or on aeroplanes. Revolut has no control over whether an
individual merchant is online or offline when a transaction is made.
From what I have seen, I am satisfied that the disputed transaction was actually made on 
13 August 2021 but did not debit Mr Ms account until later. I have considered the disputed
transaction alongside the genuine transactions before and after that Mr M agrees he made.
I have detailed them below:
Date Time Merchant
13/8/2021 14:36 Cash withdrawal in 
Lausanne
13/8/2021 15:23 Cie Pari Mutuel
13/8/2021 20:17 McDonalds Lausanne
I agree its not possible for Mr Ms card to have been in Switzerland at 14:36 when he used it
to withdraw cash, in Paris at 15:23 when the disputed transaction was made and then back
in Switzerland at 20:17 when he used it at McDonalds.
But the address of the merchant is not necessarily the same place where this transaction
was initiated. It is possible that the merchant is registered in Paris but operates elsewhere.
Revolut is unable to provide any further information about precisely where the card was
used.
From my own research, Pari Mutuel is a betting agency, PMU. PMU appears to be available
in Switzerland as well as in France. The merchant that received the money, Cie Pari Mutuel,
provides technological solutions for the pari-mutuel betting service.
I will never know for certain exactly where Mr Ms card was used. But it seems more likely
than not that it was used at a PMU in Switzerland and not Paris. In further support of this is
the Cie Pari Mutuel transaction appears on Mr Ms bank statement in Swiss Francs and not
Euros. Revoluts technical evidence shows the transaction was made in Swiss Francs.Having established the transaction was unlikely to have been made in Paris, I have gone on
to consider whether Revolut can fairly hold Mr M responsible for it.
Can Revolut hold Mr M responsible for the disputed transaction?
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking,
payment service providers will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Mr M made the
disputed transaction himself or agreed it could be made on his behalf, it would not be fair to
ask Revolut to refund it. But Mr M says he does not recognise this payment and has
explained that his card and PIN were always in his control.
Mr M has suggested that his card has been cloned. But I can rule that out because Im
satisfied from Revoluts technical evidence that Mr Ms genuine card and PIN were used to
make the disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its
own, enough to enable Revolut to hold him liable. So, I also need to think about whether the
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr M consented to the payment being
made.
Ive thought about the possible scenarios for how this transaction could have been made. Its
possible that Mr M made it himself and perhaps did not initially recognise it as he thought it
had taken place in Paris. If this is what happened, it would be an understandable mistake for
him to have made, but Mr M has not referred to making any transaction for this kind of
amount at that time.
If Mr M did not make it himself, it was either made by an opportunistic thief, or someone
closer to him either with or without his permission. I dont think its likely that an opportunistic
thief would have taken Mr Ms card and then taken steps to return it back to him. They would
have to know where he was located and returning a card would increase the risk of their
actions being detected.
If Mr M had given someone closer to him permission to use his card, Revolut could still treat
any transaction that they went on to make whilst they had the card as being authorised by
him.
So Ive thought about whether this transaction could have been made by someone closer to
Mr M but without his knowledge or wider agreement. But I cannot see how this opportunity
would have arisen in the circumstances that Mr M has described.
Hes explained to us that the bank card has not moved from his home and he did not give his
PIN to anyone. Hes explained that it was not possible for anyone else to have accessed his
card because he lives alone.
Its clear that whoever carried out the transactions knew Mr Ms PIN because there werent
any incorrect PIN entries. Im unable to find a plausible explanation for how someone else
would have known this information. It is also hard to see how anybody other than Mr M could
have carried out the spending when hes explained the card was always in his possession
and no one else could have accessed it.
Overall
I am sorry to have to deliver this news to Mr M. I know this wasnt the outcome he was
hoping for. Hes explained how stressful the situation has been and how he has had to
borrow money from friends. But having considered everything, all of the available evidence
points to it being more likely than not that Mr M made the transaction himself. There is noexplanation for how someone else could have used his card without his knowledge or
agreement. I realise that is a very difficult message to give, but that is what the available
evidence leads me to conclude. This means that Mr M is considered to have authorised the
transaction in dispute and it was not unfair of Revolut to hold him responsible for it.
I also havent seen anything to suggest that Revolut acted incorrectly when it processed the
disputed payment.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Revolut responded to my provisional decision and said it had no further points to add. 
Mr M did not respond. As the deadline for both parties to respond has now passed, I will 
review the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as nether party has sent any new evidence or arguments for me to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision 
and reproduced above.
In this case, in all the circumstances, I cant fairly or reasonably say that Revolut is 
responsible for refunding Mr M. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman