DRN-3716218
The complaint
Mr H took out a motor policy with Hyperformance Ltd and complains they didnt pass on 
information hed given them about motoring convictions to his insurer  leaving him liable for 
significant costs.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whats happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
 
Mr H took out the relevant motor insurance policy through Hyperformance on 
19 August 2017 for 12 months. In July 2018 Mr H was unfortunately involved in an accident. 
After looking into things, Mr Hs insurer held him liable. But they also said hed not declared 
motoring convictions following an incident on 28 January 2017 and should have done. 
Because of that, they voided his policy (treated it like it never existed) and said this means 
they expect him to pay the costs theyve incurred.
Mr H said hed told Hyperformance about the motoring convictions when previously taking 
out insurance and theyd not passed the information on, so he complained to them about 
this.
Hyperformance said Mr H had originally taken out insurance with them on 2 February 2017 
for one month, due to his car being seized by Police. Hyperformance said during the call 
Mr H disclosed a pending IN10 conviction which hed also mentioned online when getting a 
quotation, and a LC20. 
For clarity, an IN10 conviction is for driving without insurance, and an LC20 is for driving 
otherwise than in accordance with a licence (Ive used this wording from the relevant 
Government website).
At the end of the one-month insurance period, Hyperformance said they wouldnt offer 
another short-term policy, but would offer a 12-month policy and the premium would be 
£2,632.36. Hyperformance says this was based on the details Mr H had given them, 
including the pending convictions. Hyperformance say Mr H said he didnt have any points 
on his licence, but say their agent told him they may appear in the future  so they were 
factoring in the pending convictions into the premium cost. At this point, they say Mr H chose 
to look elsewhere.
Hyperformance said after this policy lapsed in March 2017, Mr H got a new quote online for 
£1,062.93 with them through a price comparison site  but say he didnt disclose any 
motoring convictions on his licence. Hyperformance added their sales team wouldnt know 
Mr H had been insured with them previously unless he let them know. So, new policies are 
based solely on whats provided online and what is later confirmed on the phone.
Listening to the call where this new policy was arranged, Hyperformance explained Mr H 
said when asked if the car was in the Police impound, it had been previously, but wasnt 
anymore and hed not been given any punishment or fines. Hyperformance asked if Mr H 
had any points or insurance convictions, and say he said, no convictions. They later in the 
call asked him the same questions and say again he said no. A policy was then arranged on 
4 March 2017 for 12 months.
Hyperformance say Mr H then cancelled the policy on 27 June 2017 after passing his driving 
test. He contacted them again on 18 August 2017 to arrange a new policy. This is the key 
policy for this complaint. During this call, they said they again asked Mr H if he had any 
penalty points or endorsements within the last five years, driving bans or disqualifications in 
the last ten years, or any penalty points or bans pending. Hyperformance say Mr H said no 
to each question. 
Hyperformance said when discussing his car being impounded, they told him hed have IN10 
and LC20 convictions pending  but when taking out the two further policies said no each 
time he was asked. They added theyd received a copy of his driving licence photo card but 
hadnt received his driving licence summary  as theyd asked after the sale of the policy. 
Overall, they didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint, saying they couldnt be held responsible for 
Mr H choosing to take out a new policy through their sales team, and withholding 
information.
Mr H contacted us and asked that we look into things. He said he cant agree with the 
outcome theyd given to him. He said:
Their letter explained he applied as a new customer, but the letter he received from 
them when taking out the policy in August 2017 says hes renewed it.
There were lots of contradictions, specifically that theyd arranged a 12-month policy 
for him on 4 March 2017, when it was actually 2 February 2017.
He hadnt applied for a new policy through a price comparison site it was directly with 
them. And hed had a lot of discussions with them before agreeing to take out the 
policy on 18 August 2017. He said, in effect, the call on this day was a back up to 
what had been discussed.
He didnt contact them on 27 June 2017  it was 22 June 2017 the day after hed 
passed his driving test. But, by only mentioning 27 June and 18 August 2017 he felt 
Hyperformance were trying to hide hed been in touch with them on many more 
occasions than that.
Hyperformance noted theyd made an error with the date on one of the policy documents 
which said a 12-month policy had been arranged on 2 February, when it was 4 March 2017. 
But, otherwise, they didnt agree with any of Mr Hs concerns.
One of our Investigators looked into things and ultimately found Hyperformance had asked 
Mr H whether he had any convictions  and that Mr H said no to this. And he found the 
statement of fact (SOF), which Mr H should have checked when taking out his policy, also 
recorded no convictions. So, he didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H didnt agree with this. He reiterated his concerns that Hyperformance werent sharing 
all the right information, and that they knew about the convictions  and he provided further 
evidence. As he didnt agree with our Investigator, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Hs complaint in considerably less detail than he did. If Ive not reflected something thats 
been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of 
the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I 
think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
My review of what happened
That said, I do think some clarity around the timeline of policies would be useful. Based on 
the information Ive been provided with:
2 February 2017  date the one-month policy started
4 March 2017  date the one-month policy expired
4 March 2017  date the first 12-month policy started, when Mr H held a provisional 
licence
22 June 2017  date Mr H says the first 12-month policy was cancelled
27 June 2017  date Hyperformance say the first 12-month policy was cancelled
19 August 2017  date the second 12-month policy started, when Mr H was now on 
his full licence
19 August 2018  date the policy lapsed
There is a document both Mr H and Hyperformance have provided which shows a 12-month 
policy was taken out on 2 February 2017. But I accept this was a mistake by Hyperformance 
when typing out the information, as all the other documents and evidence show a policy was 
taken out on 2 February 2017 for one month.
Ive listened to the call between Mr H and Hyperformance on 1 March. It seems the purpose 
of Mr H in making this call was to take out a new 12-month policy with them following the 
expiry of his one-month policy. As Hyperformance explained to Mr H when replying to his 
complaint, they quoted him £2,632.36 for a yearly policy and said they couldnt do a monthly 
policy. They explained to him that the IN10 and LC20 might not show yet  but the Police 
wouldnt have taken the car without reason and the agent expected the convictions would 
show on Mr Hs driving licence shortly. The agent says you cant disclose convictions on the 
impound policy, and then not declare them on a yearly policy, as the insurer wont sign off on 
that. 
During the call, the agent let Mr H know he could speak to the Driving and Vehicle Licencing 
Agency (DVLA), and if they said no convictions would be applied, and he provided evidence 
of that, then theyd look at things again. Mr H says hes not able to afford one years worth of 
policy and asks for a monthly policy  but the agent repeats hes not able to do that. Mr H 
also asks if they can do a discount, but the agent says no insurer is going to offer a discount 
for someone with a IN10 and LC20 convictions  as theyre two of the highest risk 
convictions in insurance. The call ultimately ends with Mr H saying hell shop around.
Theres another call on 3 March 2017, where Mr H asks for a one-month policy, and the 
agent repeats they cant do that because the insurer wont do it. Mr H asks several times, 
and the agent repeats this several times, and then the call ends. Ive not listened to further 
calls regarding this policy, as ultimately the key complaint is around the 18 August 2017 
policy.Ive listened to the calls from that date  three in total. At this time, Mr H is discussing the 
policy he ultimately took out on 19 August 2017. At the start of the first call, Mr H asks if 
there can be a discount, and Hyperformances agent says hell discuss this with his manager 
 and offers a discount of almost £100. Hyperformance say the policy can only be placed 
with one insurer, and they charge a £3,000 excess. Following a discussion about the excess, 
where Mr H asks if it can be reduced but the agent says this is what the insurer offers, the 
call ends with Mr H saying hed look into things. No discussions were had about convictions 
in this call.
On the second call, Mr H asks if the excess can be reduced, the agent explains again it cant 
be because the insurer doesnt offer that option. Mr H asks about cancellation options, and 
the call ends with Mr H saying hell think about it and get back to them. No discussions were 
had in this call either about convictions.
In the third and last call, Mr H says his friend did an online quote, and it came up cheaper 
than the quote given on the phone in the previous two calls. Ultimately, Hyperformance 
agreed to honour the online quote.
Hyperformances agent then takes Mr H through all of the various pieces of information  
including asking about convictions which are at the heart of this complaint. The questions 
asked are:
In the last five years have you had any penalty points or endorsements?
Any driving bans or disqualifications in the last ten years?
Do you have any penalty points or bans pending at the moment?
And to each of these questions, Mr H answered no.
During this last conversation, Mr H does ask questions when hes not sure whats being 
asked  in one example hes asked if hes ever been in an IVA (which stands for Individual 
Voluntary Arrangement)  and after the agent explains what this is, he says no he hasnt 
been.
Im satisfied the questions asked were sufficiently clear for Mr H to provide a clear and 
accurate answer, and where he wasnt sure, hed seek clarification.
In addition, Ive seen a copy of the SOF that was produced following this call. It says under 
the section of Driver Declarations:
You, or any person to be covered by the policy, have never been convicted of any offence, 
including any fixed penalty in connection with any motor vehicle or any criminal conviction 
and have no prosecution or Police enquiry pending.
This was completed on the phone, and it was for Mr H to check when he received the 
documents. The answer given is Agree.
Ive seen no evidence Mr H contacted Hyperformance to correct this.
Addressing Mr Hs specific concerns
Mr H has raised concerns about discrepancies he says from Hyperformance  and why 
theyre hiding hes been in contact with them many times.
In relation to the policy documents in August 2017 I accept these say theyve renewed his 
policy  but this is clearly incorrect. Mr H isnt disputing that he cancelled the previous policy he had in June 2017. Nor is he saying he had a policy which was due to lapse in 
August 2017. Therefore, this is an error by Hyperformance. 
I agree with Mr H that the policy arranged on 2 February 2017 was only for a month, but 
Hyperformance issued paperwork to show it was for 12-months in error.
He says he didnt apply online for the policy in August 2017  but in the phone call Ive 
listened to he may not have, but his friend did on his behalf. Given his friend would most 
likely have needed details from Mr H to do so, I find its still Mr Hs responsibility to ensure 
the online information is correct. Ive seen evidence of this to show no convictions were input 
at this time.
Finally, Mr H says he didnt contact them on 27 June 2017 to cancel that policy, it was 
22 June. And only mentioning this date and 18 August suggests theyre hiding when hes 
been in contact with them. In relation to the 22 / 27 June matter, Ive seen a phone call from 
22 June, but the cancellation is recorded on Hyperformances systems as 27 June. So, it 
seems there was a delay that caused the difference in dates. And, when asked, 
Hyperformance have provided lots of other calls and their contact notes showing this. So, 
Ive seen nothing to suggest Hyperformance have hidden Mr Hs contact with them as hes 
suggested.
Overall, I think the purpose of Mr H highlighting these issues is to suggest Hyperformance 
basically arent being truthful that they didnt know about his convictions.
I do take his point. At face value, they clearly did know about his convictions as the first 
policy they gave him was one because his car had been impounded. 
Have Hyperformance made an error leading to a loss for Mr H
The question though I need to answer in this case, is whether Hyperformance should have 
passed on Mr Hs information about his motoring convictions.
Given they had been told about the convictions six months earlier, one of the questions we 
put to Hyperformance was why didnt they take them into account when doing the policy for 
the August 2017  which is the key point in this complaint. 
Hyperformance said they couldnt really answer why that information hadnt been factored in 
 but said their renewal systems, and their new business systems are separate. Its not 
for me to comment on how Hyperformances systems, I can only look at the impact on Mr H.
Hes saying that because of this, they didnt tell the insurer about the convictions, and now 
hes got a bill for £30,000. 
I do understand his point and that being asked to repay such a substantial sum would be 
worrying Im sure  but I dont currently plan to uphold this complaint.
Mr H isnt disputing he knew about the convictions  either that theyd been applied or were 
pending. Yet despite this, when asked by Hyperformance he quite clearly says no to each 
question. Hyperformance at this point were entitled to rely on what Mr H had told them in this 
call. Hes applied, through his friend, for a new policy with Hyperformance who have then 
called up to clarify details. Following this, they then sent a SOF showing Mr Hs policy had 
been taken out without notification of the convictions. This means then there were three 
opportunities for Mr H to have declared the convictions  through the online price 
comparison site, over the phone, and following receipt of the SOF. Mr H didnt take any of 
those opportunities.I do think its unfortunate Hyperformance didnt pick up on Mr Hs convictions when quoting 
for the August 2017 policy. But Ive found Mr H didnt remind them when he had multiple 
opportunities to do so. Insurance is a contract based on utmost good faith by both parties  
and ultimately Hyperformance told Mr Hs insurer what hed told them when taking out this 
policy.
Responses to my provisional decision
Hyperformance didnt reply by the deadline.
Mr H did and made a number of points. Ive considered them carefully in my response 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain Im not required to address each point either party makes, my role is simply 
to decide whether a financial business such as Hyperformance have acted fairly and 
reasonably. If I find they havent acted fairly and reasonably, then Id require them to put 
right any financial loss, and potentially pay compensation.
Mr H has suggested in his response the evidence provided has been doctored by our 
service. This has been addressed by one of our managers, who has said shes seen no 
reason to think this has happened.
I also havent seen any reason to think the evidence Ive got to consider has been doctored 
by any party. Mr Hs reason for thinking this is that hes got records of phone calls lasting 
longer than the calls provided to us  and hes provided his phone bills to prove this.
I wont dispute what Mr H has said, but I also cant rule out that potentially the reason for the 
difference in times is because Mr H was on hold  and the call recording provided to our 
service doesnt include Mr Hs wait time.
Regardless of this though, I only need to be satisfied there is enough information contained 
in the call recordings Ive got to fairly decide the outcome. If I thought there was something 
missing when listening to the call, then I might have further questions. But Im satisfied there 
is enough information to fairly decide the outcome, so I dont think its needed to ask for 
further evidence  Ill come back to this point.
Mr H has said this was a renewal because hes got documents showing this. And he says 
this is important because it shows Hyperformance knew about the convictions.
Ive seen the evidence hes provided. And hes right, these documents do say renewal on 
them. But, as Ive set out above, it doesnt appear to be in dispute Mr H didnt have a policy 
he was renewing  which is why I think this was an error. Mr H also hasnt said he did have a 
policy with them he was renewing when replying to my provisional decision.
Ultimately though, I dont think it makes a material difference. I say that because coming 
back to the call, Mr H says hes sure he told them about the convictions somewhere in the 
middle of the call. Ive not heard that when listening to the call. I also havent heard anything 
to suggest the call has been edited to remove him telling Hyperformance this as Mr H has 
suggested. What I have heard though, is when Mr H was specifically asked about the convictions, as Ive set out in my provisional decision above, hes said no each time. Even if 
Mr H did tell Hyperformance at some other point in the call, its unclear why he didnt then 
when he was specifically asked questions about the convictions. And after receiving the SOF 
Ive still not seen any evidence he contacted them. Nor has Mr H disputed this point when 
replying to my provisional decision.
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied Hyperformance havent done anything wrong 
 and Mr H didnt take the opportunities to remind Hyperformance of his convictions when he 
could have done.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman