DRN-4172860
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the settlement offered to her from Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (LV), following a claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs D had a home insurance policy with LV. Following an accident, damage was caused to 
her carpet, so she made a claim. The claim was accepted, and LV instructed an assessor to 
assess the damage. 
Following the assessment, LV offered Mrs D three options for the claim to be settled. Those 
options were: 1) That LV would organise and replace the damaged carpet. 2) that Mrs D 
could go to LVs suppliers and choose a carpet within the price range and 3) LV could send 
vouchers up to the cost that it would have paid, if Mrs D wanted to obtain the carpet 
elsewhere. 
Mrs D was unhappy with this outcome as she said that the carpet that she found and had 
chosen, far exceeded the settlement that LV offered. She believed that the settlement and 
the carpet that LV offered wasnt a like-for-like offer. So, she complained to LV. 
LV in its final response said that it had applied Mrs Ds policy terms and conditions to the 
offer, which it felt was fair. It said that the carpet that it had offered retailed at £42.99 per 
square metre and was the same material and weight of Mrs Ds damaged carpet. It said that 
the damaged carpet that had been fitted a few years earlier had retailed at around £30 per 
square metre. So, it had complied with its obligations. 
Mrs D was still unhappy with the outcome as she felt that LV hadnt been fair in its 
settlement. So, she further complained. As a result of Mrs D challenging LVs first offer, LV in 
an attempt to resolve the complaint, said that although it had correctly made an offer to settle 
the claim based on Mrs Ds policy terms, a decision was made to agree to the cash 
settlement that Mrs D wanted. Consequently, LV increased the offer, which it paid, after Mrs 
D accepted it. 
Despite this, Mrs D was given her referral rights and as she remained unhappy with how LV 
handled her claim, she referred a complaint to our service. She said that she had been put 
under significant stress for a period of around three months. And LV ought to have arrived at 
the decision to settle the claim much sooner. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it shouldnt be upheld. She 
said that LVs initial offer was in line with Mrs Ds policy terms and conditions. She also 
thought that LV had been fair to offer to cover the full costs of the replacement carpet, which 
it wasnt obliged to do under the policy terms and conditions. She acknowledged Mrs Ds 
strength of feeling and the stress she felt, when dealing with LV. But concluded that there 
was nothing further she could reasonably ask LV to do. 
LV accepted the view, Mrs D did not. Essentially, she felt that it wasnt fair for LV to have put 
her under so much stress and inconvenience and that LV ought to have settled the claim 
much sooner. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be a 
disappointment to Mrs D, but I hope my findings explain why I think this is fair. 
Mrs D has provided detailed comments as to why essentially, she felt LV ought to pay her 
compensation for the trouble and upset, she says it caused her in the way it handled her 
claim. I have considered each point that she has made. As an informal dispute resolution 
service, we are tasked with resolving complaints with the minimum of formality and on an 
impartial basis.  So, I hope that Mrs D wont take it discourteously If I dont respond in the 
same way. But I do think that the main issue here is whether LV were fair in the way it 
handled her claim. 
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions, as this is the best starting point to see what 
LVs obligations were under the policy. These obligations are the contract between Mrs D 
and LV.  
Following a claim, LVs obligations (when dealing with home contents) under the policy 
states: 
Your insurer will at its option: 
i) Replace as new;
ii) Pay the cost to them of replacing as new; 
iii) Repair; or 
iv) Pay the cost to them of repair 
LV further explained that if a consumer wished to have a cash settlement, in which they 
chose the supplier, then LV would settle the claim on the basis of what it wouldve cost them 
to replace. This would inevitably mean that it would have access to discounts, given the 
volume of business that it passed to its suppliers. 
I must say to Mrs D that this practice is not unique to LV and many insurers (LV included) 
will only settle claims on this basis. That is, offer a settlement on the basis of what it 
wouldve cost them. Our service are not the regulators of insurers, this is the remit of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. So, we are unable to tell an insurer how it should run its 
business. What we do is to look at whether it dealt with the consumer fairly. 
By offering the first settlement, within a few days of its assessor attending, I dont think LV 
were unfair in its offer, which Im satisfied was in line with Mrs Ds policy terms. 
It is clear that Mrs D was unhappy by the initial settlement offer and challenged this. She 
said that LV didnt offer her a like-for-like replacement and the cash settlement it offered 
didnt provide for a suitable replacement carpet. 
LV said that the carpet that it offered was of the same material composition and cost more 
per metre square, than the original damaged carpet. So, it was a like-for-like replacement. In 
any event, Mrs D successfully challenged the original offer that LV made. And I note that in order to resolve the complaint, LV increased its offer to the full cash settlement that Mrs D 
sought. In doing so, I note that LV also paid for the cost of replacement gripper rods, even 
though Mrs D has provided no evidence that the rods were damaged. 
Whilst I understand that Mrs D said that it was incredibly stressful in obtaining the full 
settlement from LV and that LV ought to have acceded to her request sooner, I cant agree 
that LV acted unfairly here. As within a short period of time, after the claim was made LV 
made the settlement offers, which I think were in line with Mrs Ds policy terms and 
conditions. 
Further, LV increased its offer to her, which included items that hadnt been affected as a 
result of the accidental damage. I appreciate that Mrs D was deeply unimpressed by LV, but 
having reviewed all of the evidence, including the policy terms and conditions, I dont think 
that LV was unfair or unreasonable in its settlement and handling of her claim. Accordingly, I 
cant reasonably ask LV to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman