DRN-3665283
The complaint
Mr L complains through his representative that Loans 2 Go irresponsibly lent him money on
high cost loans he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mr L with the following loans:
Date Amount Term Monthly repayment Date repaid
Loan 1 16/12/2019 £600 18 months £137.13 04/12/2020
Loan 2 04/12/2020 £911.36 18 months £208.30 Outstanding
Mr L paid the instalments on loan 1 and repaid the balance with loan 2. He got into 
difficulties with the repayments for this loan and was persistently in arrears. He 
complained to Loans 2 Go in January 2022.
Loans 2 Go said it carried out a series of stringent checks to establish whether the loans 
were affordable. These included verifying Mr Ls income, carrying out a credit check for 
each loan and going through a detailed application process with Mr L. It assessed that the 
loans were affordable in each case. Nevertheless it offered to write off the balance owing 
on loan 2 and to refund £300 interest. Mr L rejected this and referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
Our adjudicator said that the checks carried out by Loans 2 Go showed both loans to 
be affordable for Mr L.
Mr L disagreed and in response his representative has sent in bank statements for the
period before each of the loans. These show substantial gambling transactions. However, 
our adjudicator said that it wouldnt have been proportionate to expect Loans 2 Go to verify 
the information by reviewing the statements.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that although I thought Loans 2 Go had 
acted fairly in respect of loan 1, I didnt think it should have provided loan 2.
Mr L accepted my provisional decision.
Loans 2 Go has received the decision but hasnt commented on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
- including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
L would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr L would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ls ability to make the repayments under the 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr L undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial 
situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr L. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications. I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
loan 1
Mr Ls income was assessed as being a minimum of £1,715 a month. The credit check
carried out by Loans 2 Go showed that he had two credit cards that were close to their limit.He had two loans, one in default showing a periodic payment due of £387. Based on the
amount he paid off this loan between this credit check and that carried out for loan 2, I think
it reasonable to say that he was liable to pay £104.50 a month for the loan. Allowing a
monthly payment of 5% of the outstanding balances on each credit card, and with the new
loan instalment he would have been spending about 23% of his income on his credit
commitments. As he was paying those and was not in default on any other payments this
should have been affordable.
Loans 2 Go assessed his income as a minimum of £1,715. I think it reasonable to accept
this, though his bank statements show a higher income. His total expenditure before paying
the loan was assessed to be around £1,370 a month. I think the loan was affordable and that
Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision.
Ive considered Mr Ls bank statements. These do show substantial sums being spent on
gambling and I accept would have raised serious questions about Mr Ls ability to repay the
loan. However his account didnt go overdrawn (so wouldnt have shown up in any credit
check) and the regulations Ive referred to dont require businesses to review bank
statements. There was nothing, in my view, in the checks that Loans 2 Go carried out that
would have indicated that it should have carried out any further checks (including reviewing
any bank statements).
loan 2
When Mr L came back for another loan a year after the first loan, with six months to pay on
that loan, this should have alerted Loans 2 Go to carry out a more thorough check.
Mr Ls income had gone down, and was now assessed at about £1,415 a month, but his
overall credit commitments had gone up. The previous defaulted loan was still being paid, as
Ive said, at £104.50 a month. Even though loan 1 was being paid off, with the new loan
instalment I calculate that his credit commitments would have been around £623 a month,
about 44% of his income. Taking into account that one loan (with a monthly instalment of
£125) was due to be paid off in the next month, this would have reduced that ratio to 35%.
Nevertheless this was considerably higher than before and, as his income had gone down,
an indication that he wouldnt be able to afford the new loan.
Loans 2 Go said it assessed Mr Ls monthly expenditure at £1,133.15. Adding the new loan
payment this would have left Mr L with about £73.50 a month disposable income which I
dont think was sufficient, especially bearing in mind that this was the second loan. I dont
think Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision in this respect.
As with loan 1 Ive reviewed Mr Ls bank statements and note that he was continuing to
spend considerable sums on gambling. As Im upholding the complaint concerning this loan,
Ill make no further comment on that.
As Mr L accepted my decision and as Loans 2 Go hasnt commented on my provisional 
findings, I remain persuaded that those findings were correct. They are now final and form 
part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Mr L has had the capital payment in respect of loan 2, so its fair that he should repay
this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Loans 2 Go should refund all interest and
charges as follows:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2.Treat any payments made by Mr L as payments towards the capital amount.
If Mr L has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 
8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Loans 2 Go should come to a 
reasonable repayment plan with Mr L
Remove any adverse information where appropriate about loan 2 from Mr Ls 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint concerning loan 2 and require Loans 2 Go Limited to provide the 
remedy set out under Putting things right above.
I dont uphold the complaint concerning loan 1.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman