DRN-3557519
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that Suffolk Building Society wont waive an early repayment charge 
(ERC) if they were to repay their consumer buy-to-let mortgage.
What happened
In 2020, Mr and Mrs V remortgaged a property they already owned. They took out a 
consumer buy-to-let mortgage with Suffolk. The mortgage had a five-year fixed interest rate 
and an ERC was payable if the mortgage was repaid in the first five years.
In 2021, due to the pandemic, Mr and Mrs V had to move back to the UK from abroad. They 
said they needed to sell the property so that they could afford to buy a property that was 
suitable for their family. And they needed all of the equity in the property to carry out their 
plans. But Suffolk wouldnt agree to waive or reduce the ERC unless Mr and Mrs V took out 
a residential mortgage with it. Mr and Mrs V said they would be worse off overall if they did 
this as the interest rates offered by Suffolk were uncompetitive.
Mr and Mrs V consider that Suffolk arent treating them fairly. They said the change in their 
circumstances was outside their control and unforeseen when they took out the mortgage. 
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs V didnt accept what the investigator said. They said that Suffolk marketed itself 
as a family friend building society. And it should have had policies in place to help customers 
affected by Covid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that when Mr and Mrs V took out the mortgage they agreed to be bound by 
its terms. That included that an ERC would apply if the mortgage was repaid within the first 
five years. The ERC is set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer. And the 
relevant rules allow lenders to apply an ERC. So I dont consider it would be unreasonable 
for Suffolk to apply it when the mortgage was repaid. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances had changed since the mortgage was taken 
out. Neither they nor Suffolk could have anticipated when the mortgage was arranged what 
would happen in the future. Suffolk has an overriding obligation to pay due regard to Mr and 
Mrs Vs best interests and to treat them fairly. 
I can see that Suffolk did consider what Mr and Mrs V had told it. And Suffolk offered a 
compromise, where it would waive the ERC if Mr and Mrs V took out another product with it. 
I accept that overall this might have been more expensive for Mr and Mrs V than paying the 
ERC. But I think it was a fair offer. It went further than Suffolk was required to go.
Ultimately, there are likely to be costs to Suffolk in the mortgage being repaid during the 
fixed interest rate period. It is reasonable for it to seek to recoup those costs. I dont think it 
would be fair for me to say that Suffolk should absorb any losses so that Mr and Mrs V could 
do what they wanted  just as I wouldnt say that it would be reasonable for Suffolk to 
change the terms of the agreement for its benefit.
I know Mr and Mrs V have been left in a difficult position because of the change in their 
circumstances. But it is fair and reasonable for Suffolk to apply the ERC if the mortgage is 
repaid during the tie-in period in line with the offer that Mr and Mrs V accepted. Suffolk 
exercised reasonable flexibility in putting forward a solution that would allow Mr and Mrs V to 
avoid the ERC. 
I note the screenshots provided by Mr and Mrs V from Suffolks website. But I dont consider 
it changes anything or means that Suffolk hasnt acted fairly in the individual circumstances 
of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman