DRN-3020774
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service received from The Royal London Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited, referred to as RL. 
Hes unhappy that he wasnt provided with the key features and general information 
documents when he took out the policies. Consequently, he cancelled the plans and now 
wants his money back. 
What happened
In April 2018 and June 2019, Mr M took out life insurance policies  provided by RL  
through his Independent Financial Adviser (IFA).   
He says he contacted the IFA about the key documentation but wasnt provided any, despite 
assurances, so in due course in or around February 2020 he cancelled the policies. 
Mr M maintains that RL failed its legal obligations to provide the necessary documentation, 
and because his IFA was working for RL, both parties are responsible. Mr M has also made 
clear that hes not complaining about mis-sale or suitability of the policies  hes happy with 
the terms of the policies  but feels that RL, by failing its obligation, has rendered the policies 
null and void. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Mr M took out both life policies as result of advice he received from his IFA. 
The IFA was responsible for submitting the application and providing the necessary 
information to RL, in effect it was acting as Mr Ms representative. 
The IFA instructed RL to submit any documentation to itself directly so that it could 
then pass on any documentation to Mr M. 
RL on both occasions (in 2018 and 2019) provided welcome packs to the IFA  
addressed to Mr M  asking it to pass on the documents to its client. So, in the 
circumstances, RL did what it was instructed to do. 
In 2019, RL wrote directly to Mr M following changes that he made to one of the 
policies and provided a summary. 
Whilst Mr M made requests to his IFA for documentation, RL isnt responsible for his 
IFA not providing the relevant documentation to him. Its a separate issue that Mr M 
might want to consider taking up with his IFA.  
When the matter was raised directly with RL  amongst other issues such as direct 
debit payment and reducing his premiums  Mr M was sent the documentation. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
feels that RL still shouldve provided him with documentation separately and its not fair that 
it should try ad hide behind the IFA which is no longer around to take any responsibility. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said:
RL was following instructions provided by Mr Ms IFA. 
Even though the IFA is no longer trading, Mr M can raise a complaint with the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
In the circumstances, despite what Mr M says, he cant safely say that RL has done 
anything wrong. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says Im not persuaded that 
RL behaved unreasonably, or that its responsible for any losses suffered by Mr M. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr M and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice. But its 
for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened.
In this instance, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that RL was only 
instructed to provide documentation to the IFA  not to Mr M  so that it could forward the 
documentation to him. So, in the circumstances I cant safely say that RL has done anything 
wrong by not directly providing Mr M with a separate set of documents, because thats not 
what it was asked to do by the IFA. 
  
Based on what RL says, Im aware that welcome packs  detailing the nature and operation 
of the policies  were sent to Mr Ms IFA on both occasions, in line with its instructions. 
Therefore, in the circumstances, and on balance, I think RL fulfilled its obligations towards 
Mr M. 
I note the welcome packs were specifically addressed to Mr M, with a cover letter addressed 
to his IFA, with the following instructions:
Please pass these documents to your client. If you have any questions please 
contact us. 
If the IFA didnt forward the documentation to Mr M, I cant blame RL for this. Whilst I 
appreciate what Mr M says, I cant safely say that RL behaved unreasonably in the 
circumstances by not providing him with a separate set of documents because it wasnt 
instructed to. In other words, I dont think RL was obliged to, in light of its instructions from 
the IFA. Even if I was to conclude that RL was responsible for the not providing Mr M with the 
relevant documentation, which I dont, I still cant safely say that this rendered the policies 
null and void, or that it should refund the premiums. 
Im aware that as part of its role, the IFA wouldve been responsible for providing Mr M with 
all the key policy documentation from the outset so that he could make an informed decision 
about whether to go ahead with the advice.  
Whether or not the IFA fulfilled its obligations, I note Mr M went ahead with the 
recommendations on two separate occasions, roughly 14 months apart. On balance, this 
would suggest that Mr M had no material issue with the nature and operation of the policies 
so far as RL was concerned.  
I note that Mr M, despite being happy with the terms of the policies, made the decision (of 
his own volition) to cancel the policies  although one of the policies may have already 
lapsed  because the IFA didnt provide the documentation that he requested. 
I note RL didnt advise Mr M to cancel the policies, so in the circumstances Im unable to 
safely say that RL  as the insurer  is responsible for him making that decision. Despite 
what Mr M says, it would be unreasonable and unfair to ask RL to refund the premiums just 
because he decided to cancel the policies.  
On balance, Im satisfied Mr M paid for a service that he received from the insurer. In the 
event of a valid claim during the term of the policies, so long as the premiums were paid and 
up to date, RL wouldve paid out the sum assured, therefore hes not entitled to a refund of 
premiums from RL. 
Im mindful Mr M says that the IFA was an agent of RL and therefore both businesses are 
responsible. But I dont agree that the IFA was an agent of RL or that RL is responsible. On 
the contrary, as the name suggests, the IFA was an independent financial adviser.
I note, in respect of the IFA, RL made clear:
They are not affiliated to Royal London in any way and they submitted and commenced the 
plan, on your behalf, as your appointed representative.
I appreciate Mr M will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask RL to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr M what he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman