DRN-4037353
The complaint
Mr G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) {Amex} failed to 
pay him welcome air travel points when he opened a new card account and charged him a 
£250 annual fee for the new card. 
What happened
Mr G has held an Amex card for a number of years. In late 2021, Mr G applied for an 
Executive Club account card with Amex that offered 40,000 air travel points if he spent a set 
amount on the new card within the first three months. The new card was sent to Mr G in 
January 2022.
Mr G raised concerns with Amex that he hadnt received his welcome air travel points. Amex 
explained that the Mr G wasnt entitled to the points as he already held an Amex card, and 
the offer was for new card holders only. Mr G complained to Amex and, as a goodwill, Amex 
credited Mr Gs account with 50% of the air travel points because there had been a delay in 
Mr Gs new card being issued. Mr G said he also wanted his £250 annual fee refunded and, 
as hed been unable to use the expected air travel points he thought he would receive, hed 
paid more for flights hed since booked than he should have. Mr G said hed paid additional 
call costs to Amex because he called from abroad to try and resolve things.
Mr G brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that the offer made by Amex to 
credit Mr G with 50% of the air travel points was a fair and reasonable one in the 
circumstances of the complaint.
Mr G asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr G will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator Ive decided the 20,000-air travel points Amex has already credited to Mr Gs 
account is a fair and reasonable remedy in the circumstances of the complaint. I will now 
explain why.
The crux of Mr Gs complaint is that Amex didnt make it clear to him that the offer of 
welcome air travel points wasnt available to existing Amex card holders. Mr G says that the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) expects that financial services should be sold in a manner 
that is clear and not misleading. Amex has provided evidence that the application process 
for the Executive Club card account made it reasonably clear the offer of welcome air travel 
points was for New Cardmembers Only and that Mr G was provided with a prompt to 
explain what this meant. In addition, the declaration on the on-line application form explained 
that an existing Amex card holder wouldnt qualify for the air travel points bonus. Taking all 
of this into account, Im persuaded that the offer Amex made wasnt unfair or misleading. 
Although Mr G could still apply for an Executive Club card account, he wouldnt be entitled to 
the welcome air travel bonus points.
Mr G says he spent more than £3,000 on his existing card in the three-month period from 
January-March 2022  this isnt disputed by Amex. Mr G also says that he paid for flights 
when he should reasonably have had welcome air travel points to reduce the cost. But, 
regardless of this, as Im satisfied Mr G wasnt entitled to the welcome bonus air travel 
points, I dont consider Amex is responsible for the consequential losses Mr G says he 
suffered.  
Theres no dispute that Amex delayed issuing a new Executive Club account card to Mr G, 
so I only need to consider the remedy Amex completed in this regard. Amex credited Mr Gs 
account with 20,000 of the air travel points for this delay, which was relatively short, and Im 
persuaded this remedy was a fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand Mr G has strong feelings that Amex should also refund the annual fee of £250 
on his Executive Card account, and I know that the Investigator asked Amex to consider 
doing this. However, the annual fee is set out in the credit agreement Mr G accepted when 
he applied for his Executive Club card, and I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to tell Amex it must refund a contractual annual fee for the card that Mr G would have 
been aware of at the time he applied for it.
During the investigation, Mr G explained that he had an issue with a direct debit payment to 
Amex in 2022. Amex said it hadnt received a complaint about this issue and declined to give 
consent for the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider this specific complaint until it had 
reviewed the circumstances. Amex is now dealing with this issue as a separate complaint so 
Im unable to comment on this specific matter in my decision. 
My final decision
Ive decided that the air travel bonus points American Express Services Europe Limited 
(AESEL) has already credited to Mr Gs account is a fair and reasonable remedy in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman