DRN-4351359
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Santander UK Plc acted irresponsibly when it provided her with 
a credit card in September 2022.
What happened
Miss S applied for a credit card with Santander in September 2022. At that time, she said 
she had a history of compulsive spending problems linked to gambling, and that the bank 
was aware of this. She has said that at the time she applied for the card she was gambling 
heavily and had applied for other forms of credit. She has said that Santander failed to do 
sufficient checks on her finances or take her history of gambling into consideration before 
approving her application. She believes if it had properly assessed her lending history it 
wouldve refused to give her the credit card. Shed like Santander to remove all interest and 
charges from the account and arrange a repayment plan with her.
Santander has said that at the time Miss S applied for the card in 2022, it ran proportionate 
credit checks on her to ensure the card was affordable. It says having completed these it 
seemed as though the card was affordable and sustainable. It has said that Miss S credit file 
showed no signs of any financial vulnerability at that time, and it had verified her declared 
income over the previous nine months. So, it didnt think it was wrong to provide the card 
and it didnt uphold her complaint.  
Unhappy with Santanders response Miss S brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into it already, he found that at the time Miss S applied for the credit 
card Santander ran proportionate checks and those checks showed no indication that the 
card wasnt affordable or sustainable. So, he didnt uphold her complaint. 
Miss S remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to look into her complaint again 
and so its been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator, and I wont be 
upholding Miss S complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment, so Id like to explain 
my reasons. 
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
When consumers apply for any form of credit, the rules and regulations set out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) state that businesses must check that the credit, 
whatever it might be, is affordable and sustainable. There are no specific checks that have to 
be done, but generally businesses are likely to ask prospective consumers about their 
income, existing outgoings and have a look at credit files to see how existing forms of credit 
are being maintained. Then depending on what those checks find, businesses may approve 
the application, deny the application, or ask for some more detailed information before 
deciding. 
When Miss S applied for her credit card with Santander it asked her for her annual salary 
and fixed outgoings. It also looked at her credit file and saw all accounts had been properly 
maintained in the 18 months prior to her applying for her card. Santander has confirmed that 
in September 2022 Miss S had an annual income of approximately £62,000 and under 
£20,000 of unsecured debt, which had a total monthly combined repayment amount of just 
over £700. So, it was satisfied that the credit card, which had an opening limit of £4,300, 
would be affordable. 
Looking at the information gathered in September 2022 I agree there was nothing in the 
initial checks that Santander ran that indicated the new account wasnt affordable or wouldnt 
be sustainable long term for Miss S. So, I cant say Santander failed to pick up on any 
warning signs from the checks it ran. So, I cant uphold Miss S complaint on that basis.
Miss S has explained that she had brought two previous complaints against Santander in 
relation to affordability and gambling and that these shouldve been taken into consideration 
by the bank before it provided her with a new form of credit. Looking at the notes on Miss S 
complaint I can see one of these complaints related to overdraft charges from 2018 and the 
other to loans provided to Miss S in 2012 and 2014. 
While I agree it would be good practice for businesses to consider a consumers history in 
full when reviewing applications for new credit, its also important that applications for credit 
are considered on consumers current circumstances. It would be inappropriate and unfair of 
a business to refuse to provide credit solely because in the past the consumer has disclosed 
they had a compulsive spending problem. If such an approach were implemented it would 
mean that consumers wouldnt feel comfortable to ask businesses for help when they need 
to change their financial situation and anyone who had struggled in the past would be 
effectively barred from taking out credit in the future. 
I cant say that just because Miss S had demonstrated that she had a gambling problem in 
the past and had her complaint about the loans taken in 2012 and 2014 upheld on that 
basis, it shouldve automatically prevented her from being considered for credit in 2022. 
Santander based its lending decision on Miss S circumstances in 2022 when she applied for 
the credit, and this was the correct thing to have done. Had there been any evidence that her 
previous history of compulsive spending was still impacting her negatively I wouldve 
expected Santander to take that into consideration. But looking at all the information 
available to it at the time I cant see there was any evidence of this. So, I cant say 
Santander was wrong to provide Miss S with the credit card in 2022 and so I cant uphold 
her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Miss S complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Karen HanlonOmbudsman