DRN-2888575
The complaint
Mr L complains Nationwide Building Society treated him unfairly when closing his accounts 
with them.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr L tried to get cashback using his debit card at a supermarket, but it 
didnt work. On 19 January 2020 he phoned Nationwide to complain about this, and about 
the staff in his local branch not serving customers. 
Nationwide replied to Mr Ls complaint on 21 January 2020. They said they understood Mr L 
was unhappy because he couldnt get cashback when using the contactless option on his 
debit card at a supermarket around Christmas time. Specifically, they said Mr L wasnt happy 
it wasnt detailed in the letter he received with the card that you couldnt get cashback when 
using the contactless option. They said they understood Mr L was also unhappy because 
branch staff are standing around not doing anything while customers are queuing for the 
counter. 
Nationwide said they can confirm its not possible to get cashback when using the 
contactless option  and this is the policy for all providers of contactless cards for security 
reasons. Nationwide said sorry this wasnt detailed in the letter but its standard practice and 
cash back is only available when you use your personal identification number (PIN). 
Nationwide added PIN reminders were ordered on 19 January 2020, and these can take up 
to five days to arrive. They also didnt have any concerns over the way the branch staff 
worked. 
On 10 February 2020 Nationwide wrote to Mr L again, and explained itd been brought to 
their attention that in the initial complaint call on 19 January 2020, Mr L has used abusive 
language to several employees. Nationwide said they didnt think it was required, or 
necessary, for abusive language to be used in branch or when contacting a call centre. 
Nationwide said because of this they were going to close down Mr Ls accounts within 14 
days of the letter  so by 24 February 2020. Nationwide added they take the welfare and 
safety of their employees extremely seriously.
Mr L called Nationwide up on 14 February 2020 to discuss this. And, on 18 February 2020 
Nationwide wrote out to Mr L and thanked him for calling as the conversation helped them 
understand his circumstances. But they still felt the most appropriate course of action was to 
close down Mr Ls accounts  though theyd now extend the deadline to 10 March. 
Nationwide said Mr Ls credit card was closed on 10 February 2020, and as the account was 
in credit by £274.17, theyd transferred this balance to his current account. 
Mr Ls accounts were subsequently closed on 10 March 2020 and he contacted us after that 
as he wasnt happy with Nationwides actions. 
When providing information about Mr Ls concerns Ive mentioned above, hes also provided 
some paperwork from a complaint he had from May 2019. Mr L had been sent a letter from 
Nationwide dated 15 May 2019 saying hed exhibited aggressive behaviour towards a staff 
member in branch. The letter says Mr L needs to remain calm and conduct himself with the 
normal restraint when carrying out business with them  otherwise they may close his 
accounts immediately. 
Mr L replied back to this letter asking who sends out this kind of threatening and intimidating 
letter without hearing both sides of the story. Mr L went on to explain hes simply refusing to 
answer their security questions and letting the public know his security details which wouldnt 
be very secure. Mr L explained hed raised a complaint about the branch and because of the 
poor service hed been receiving felt very agitated before going into the branch. He let 
Nationwide know he had physical and mental health conditions and said they couldnt 
understand how that felt.
Mr L contacted us regarding the current concerns  the cashback on the debit card, branch 
staff not serving customers and about the account closures. He said he didnt accept hed 
been abusive in May 2019 but did accept hed used to unnecessary bad and angry language 
in January 2020. He said regarding the January 2020 incident he did explain to Nationwide 
his physical and mental health issues. Mr L said hed asked Nationwide on 
14 February 2020 when he called up for more time to find a current account  and he asked 
for more information about the consequences of closing his two individual savings accounts 
(ISAs). 
Mr L says following this the 18 February 2020 letter dismissed his health concerns, said the 
current account would still be closed and didnt mention anything about the ISAs. An amount 
was repaid from the credit card to the current account, but the standing order wasnt 
cancelled. Mr L said he got in touch multiple times with Nationwide asking for help about his 
ISAs  but received no response. And he said a letter dated 31 March 2020 was only 
received by him in May when he asked for a copy of it when speaking to the complaints 
team. But Mr L said even if hed got this letter of 31 March 2020 then hed still have been out 
of time to transfer his ISAs  as the accounts were closed and cheques issued for them 
without him being told this. The letter reiterated his accounts would remain closed and said 
the notice period enabled him to make alternative arrangements with another financial 
provider. Nationwide said its worth phoning some banks or building societies as they may 
be able to help you. 
Mr L said he spoke to another provider, who suggested asking Nationwide to reinstate his 
ISAs so he could transfer them. They said no, and Mr L feels this is malicious on their part 
and wouldnt help him in any way. He said he feels this is like a punishment for using bad 
language on the phone, his sincere apologies have fallen on deaf ears as has his 
explanations for why it happened  his health. In addition, Mr L said in June 2020 when 
contacting us hed recently discovered the standing order to repay his credit card hadnt 
been cancelled  meaning £55 per month has been taken from his account to pay his credit 
card that has a zero balance. He said he received a cheque refund dated 6 May 2020, but 
this was three months after speaking to Nationwide. Mr L said he felt this was unequal 
treatment, and hed been marginalised. Mr L summed up by saying there were three issues 
to be considered  lost tax from the ISAs, interest lost on both ISAs and the credit card, and 
their treatment of someone with serious health problems. 
One of our investigators considered all the information Mr L had sent. He explained we 
couldnt consider the issues from May 2019 because Mr L had brought them to our service 
outside of the time limits set out in the rules  but he wasnt sure if Mr L was asking us to 
consider it, or he was providing information to us as context for his current concerns. So, he 
asked Mr L if he wanted us to consider those points. Mr L replied and focused his concerns on the issues from January 2020 onwards. Our 
investigator replied and said the rules said he couldnt look at the May 2019 issues but could 
look at the more recent issues and had asked Nationwide for their side of things.
Once our investigator had all the information, he issued his outcome and didnt uphold Mr Ls 
complaint. He said its not our role to say whether Nationwide should offer cash withdrawals 
on a contactless purchase, so couldnt say theyd done anything wrong there. He said that 
Nationwide were aware of some of Mr Ls health issues but werent aware of the full extent 
of them in February 2020 when the decision to close the accounts was made. And, when 
abusive or threatening language is used Nationwide can close down accounts to protect 
their staff. He added that, in relation to the ISAs, he couldnt see Mr L had told Nationwide 
he couldnt open accounts with another provider or asked them for further support. So he 
didnt think Nationwide had to reinstate Mr Ls ISAs so he could regain the tax status on 
them  though Nationwide couldnt provide the call recording where Mr L said this was 
discussed. And finally, in relation to the standing order making payments to his credit card 
he couldnt see Mr L had asked Nationwide to stop this  meaning he couldnt say 
Nationwide had made an error.
Across a number of responses Mr L replied to our investigators outcome. Ive summarised 
the key elements as I see them of Mr Ls responses. 
Mr L said hes happy hes no longer with Nationwide and isnt opposing the closing of the 
accounts. But he is complaining about their incompetence in doing so. He said he was never 
given advice on what would happen with his ISAs despite asking for and waiting for the 
information. So, although Nationwide agreed to extend the deadline, no advice was given 
about the ISAs and instead cheques were sent without him being made aware of this  and 
he said isnt it funny how Nationwide cant provide the call recording where this was 
discussed. In relation to the payments to the credit card he said that was Nationwides 
responsibility to have stopped it given they were closing his accounts. And for the 
contactless card payment their leaflets dont say you cant get cash using this method, so 
how was he supposed to know.
Mr L summed up by saying he feels hes been treated differently because of his phone 
outbursts. He said as a customer, he should still receive professional service and correct 
advice from them, otherwise their actions or neglect should be viewed as unfair treatment. 
Mr L also said there was no mention of him being a loyal customer with Nationwide for many 
years.
Our investigator considered these points, but still didnt think Nationwide needed to do 
anything further. So, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained to Mr L, weve not considered the issues in the May 2019 
letter. Id also like to make it clear that, where information is incomplete or unavailable, as it 
is in this case, then I need to make a finding based on what I think is more likely than not.
There are three distinct issues that Mr L is complaining about:
The way his ISA accounts were closed  including the lack of advice given following 
his call on 14 February 2020The standing order from his current account (whether with Nationwide or his new 
bank) not being cancelled by Nationwide when he says it should have been
Not being able to get cashback when using the contactless method of payment
Ill go on to address those points, but to provide a compete answer I also need to address 
whether Nationwide acted correctly when deciding to close Mr Ls accounts.
Did Nationwide act correctly when deciding to close Mr Ls accounts
In this section Im only considering whether the decision to close Mr Ls accounts was 
correct. Ill go on to consider the specific issues Mr L has raised in the following sections.
Nationwide have said their terms and conditions allow them to close an account immediately 
if a member of theirs has been threatening or abusive. And Nationwide have pointed to the 
calls of 19 January 2020 as being the reason they closed the accounts.
I appreciate Mr L has acknowledged he used bad and unnecessary language during these 
calls. Given that, it seems fair for Nationwide to have closed his accounts down. And 
although theyre allowed to do so immediately, theyve not done that  instead theyve given 
him around a month. I think under the circumstances theyve taken into account Mr Ls 
health issues by giving him more time than their terms required them to. Ive also noted 
Mr Ls comments about being a loyal customer for a long time  but I dont think that means 
hes allowed to behave however he wants, and Nationwide shouldnt then do what they think 
is appropriate. 
The way his ISA accounts were closed  including the lack of advice given following his call 
on 14 February 2020
Unfortunately, this call isnt available. I do understand Mr Ls frustration about this as I agree 
itd be helpful if the call was available  so I could hear exactly whats been said. I did ask 
that we push Nationwide on this  and theyve since come back with evidence to show 
theyve searched their internal systems and theres no call recording. 
It wouldnt be fair to automatically draw an adverse inference from this. So, in the absence of 
evidence to prove what happened, I need to decide what I think is more likely than not, 
taking into account all of the information that is available.
Nationwides internal notes dont have any mention of them saying theyd give Mr L some 
advice about the ISAs. I do note Mr Ls suspicions about this  and I absolutely accept its 
possible this was discussed with him. But Im also not sure why theyd need to have offered 
him advice  in effect theyve told Mr L theyre closing down all of his accounts. At that point 
its up to him to take action regarding the accounts. 
I can see after this call Nationwide wrote out on 18 February 2020 saying theyd be closing 
down all of his accounts. Nationwides internal notes show Mr L called in upon receipt of the 
letter and asked for a call back  but when Nationwide called back it went to voicemail which 
was full so they couldnt leave a message. Theres no further contact between then, and 
when Mr Ls accounts are closed.
Given this Ive not got enough to show Nationwide did anything wrong. But, even if they said 
they would call him back to discuss his ISA options, I dont think that would have prevented 
Mr L from contacting another provider for advice. I think Nationwide had been clear about 
when his accounts would be closed  so Mr L had the time to speak to another provider.The standing order from his current account (whether with Nationwide or his new bank) not 
being cancelled by Nationwide when he says it should have been
Again, Mr L says this was discussed in the call of 14 February 2020  and again the internal 
notes make no reference to it which isnt helpful.
But I think this is a different situation to the ISA advice point Mr L has raised. I say that 
because there is evidence quite clearly showing Nationwide didnt cancel the standing order. 
And since they were the ones closing down Mr Ls account, I think it was for them to have 
done this.
That said, I dont find Nationwides errors are enough for me to award compensation. He 
was talking to them anyway about the other issues hed raised  and the money was 
refunded to him within a relatively short period of time. Because of that, although I dont think 
Nationwide have acted fairly on this point, I dont require them to do anything further. 
Not being able to get cashback when using the contactless method of payment
This was the event that started off this complaint for Mr L  he was in a supermarket in 
December 2019 and tried to obtain cash when paying for goods using the contactless 
method of payment.
Nationwide have explained its standard industry practice not to allow cashback on a 
contactless payment  which is why its not in their literature about this. The literature is likely 
intended to tell people how to use contactless and wouldnt usually explain all the things it 
cant do.  
Mr L believes quite strongly it should set out he cant use contactless to get cashback, as he 
doesnt work in the banking industry so asks how hes supposed to know this isnt an option 
for him.
Its clear Mr L was very frustrated by this. But what Nationwide have said seems fair to me. 
Its a security measure to ensure someones card isnt used fraudulently. In that scenario if 
someone had forgotten their PIN then to get cash once Nationwide were aware of this they 
could send a PIN reminder. Thats what happened with Mr L.
So, overall, on this point I dont think Nationwide have done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman