DRN-2370922
The complaint
Mrs I complains that Santander UK Plc made an entry about her on a fraud prevention 
database when she applied for a mortgage
.What happened
Mrs I applied to Santander for a mortgage with her husband. The mortgage didnt go ahead 
and Santander made an entry on a fraud prevention database about Mrs I.
Mrs I complained that the database marker isnt fair. She wants it removed. She said the 
information she gave Santander about her income and employment history was accurate. 
But Santander didnt agree to remove the marker.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the case. I said:
Whenever a mortgage application is made, the lender will consider the application. 
Each lender has its own lending criteria to help it decide whether to lend. As part of 
the assessment process, the lender will consider the information provided by the 
applicant, as well as carrying out its own checks. Thats what Santander did here.
Having carried out those checks, Santander had concerns about what Mrs I had told 
it  in particular, it couldnt verify what shed said about her income and employment 
through its usual checks. And it was also concerned about what Mrs I had herself 
said. So it made the entry on the database.
Ive considered the standard required by the database of its members when making 
an entry. It requires there to be credible evidence. The evidence doesnt have to 
prove beyond doubt, or on the balance of probabilities, that a fraud has taken place. 
But it has to be enough to show that there are matters that could be referred to the 
authorities for further investigation.
Ive looked at the evidence Santander received in this case, and the checks it carried 
out.
Ive also considered what Mrs I has said, both to Santander at the time and more 
recently to our investigator.
Having done so, Ive noted Santander wasnt able to verify what Mrs I had told it. 
Santanders investigations gave it some concerns about the accuracy of what it had 
been told. I think it was reasonable for it to conclude that it should make a report to 
the database.
And I dont think the further evidence supplied since is sufficient to persuade me that 
it was wrong to do so. So, in all the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly ask 
Santander to remove the marker now.
Santander didnt add anything further. Mrs I said she may have made some mistakes on the 
application, but they were genuine mistakes. She says she has no way of proving that she 
made a genuine mistake  but she is and always has been an honest person. She didnt 
intend to make a false statement 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence again. Ive taken into account what Mrs I has said. 
But I think Santander had reasonable concerns about what it was told on the application. It 
wasnt able to verify the information it was given about Mrs Is employment and income. And 
that, coupled with the other checks it carried out, gave it concerns that the discrepancies in 
what it had been told went beyond a simple mistake. 
Santander took the view that, based on what it had been told and on its own independent 
checks, it had enough evidence to make a report to the database. And having looked at all 
the evidence, I cant say that was an unfair decision to have made. And I cant say that 
theres evidence thats come to light since which means the marker should fairly be removed 
now.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman