DRN-4043712
The complaint
Mr A complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) have unfairly declined his home insurance claim 
after they were directed to reconsider his claim.
What happened
Mr A took out a home insurance policy with QIC in November 2021. In January 2022 Mr A 
claimed for an escape of water that he said had caused damage to his cellar and kitchen. 
QIC offered a cash settlement which Mr A rejected. He referred his complaint about the cash 
settlement and delays to the Financial Ombudsman Service. A final decision was issued 
directing QIC to reconsider Mr As claim and to pay Mr A £300 for delays in settling his claim.
QIC on visiting Mr As property and reviewing reports from other bodies said the escape of 
water was from Mr As neighbours property and not his own. And that this wouldnt be 
covered under his policy. They declined Mr As claim. 
Mr A wasnt happy with QICs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said she couldnt consider any complaint points already addressed by the 
previous ombudsmans decision. She said she didnt agree that QIC had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining Mr As claim as theyd applied the terms of his policy correctly.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint Ill explain why.
Once a final decision has been sent, our consideration of the merits of the case has ended. 
So, I cant consider any of the complaint points brought by Mr A that have already been 
considered by an ombudsman and a final decision issued. 
QIC was directed by the ombudsman to reconsider Mr As home insurance claim and to 
settle in line with the remaining terms and conditions. And to pay Mr A £300 for delays in 
settling his claim, which QIC has confirmed has been paid. So, in reaching my decision Im 
only considering the way QIC has settled Mr As home insurance claim after theyd 
reconsidered his home insurance claim.
QIC has shown us a timeline of what happened after theyd been directed to reconsider     
Mr As home insurance claim. They checked with the water board whod visited Mr As 
address in January 2022 and obtained the report that confirmed there wasnt an issue with 
the domestic gullies. Domestic gullies are designed to discharge surface water from the 
garden, rainwater from guttering, and grey wastewater from washing machines, 
dishwashers, baths, showers and sinks into the appropriate drains. Mr A had said the gullies 
had been full of debris, but on inspection they were all flowing correctly.
QIC also sought a copy of an engineers report dated March 2022 which says Mr As boiler 
was checked and found to be functioning correctly, but the water was still coming down the 
wall in his cellar. The engineer said he was asked to check the neighbours property (there is 
a family connection). And he found that the neighbours boiler was calling for hot water 
even when all the taps were switched off. The engineer determined this was the cause of the 
leak which had permeated through to Mr As property.
QICs surveyors report said the escape of water had affected the rear section of the party 
wall in the cellar. And disputed any damage would have been caused by the escape of water 
to Mr As kitchen. It also said the water had come through from the neighbouring property. 
The report said the leak water has not come through the wall plaster it has come over the 
party wall and run down the wall with the hot water eroding the wall plaster.
So from all the reports Im satisfied the evidence shows the escape of water was from the 
neighbouring property to Mr As.
QIC has declined Mr As claim. The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle 
claims promptly and fairly and they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
For any insurance claim to be successful, the policyholder must show they have a valid 
claim, meaning an insured event happened that caused them damage or a loss. Insurable 
events are listed in the policy and reflect the fact that no policy covers everything that might 
happen. Only damage caused by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will 
be covered. If the damage can be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer 
must pay the claim unless it is able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it. 
Ive considered Mr As policy terms. I can see that an escape of water is an insurable event. 
But the policy says:
We will cover loss or damage caused by
a) Escape of water from any
I. Fixed domestic water installation
II. Heating system including radiators and boiler
III. Washing machine, dishwasher, fridge and freezer
at your property.
b) Water freezing in tanks, apparatus and pipes at your property or
c) Escape of oil from any fixed domestic oil installation at your property.
QIC in declining Mr As home insurance claim have considered the term at your property. 
So, while an escape of water from a boiler, as is the case here would be covered, this cover 
is only for a boiler at Mr As property. The cover doesnt apply to a leak emanating from the 
neighbouring property, as its the neighbours boiler where the water is escaping from. And 
so, this would be excluded from Mr As cover. On the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that 
they have applied the exclusion term fairly and reasonably.
Ive considered whether there are any other policy terms that could be applied to Mr As 
claim. I can see QIC offer an optional upgrade cover for additional accidental damage to the 
buildings. But Mr As claim wouldnt be covered under this section of the policy even if hed 
chosen to upgrade as it wouldnt cover claims where the above exclusions apply. And the 
damage wasnt as a result of a sudden, unexpected event, but an erosion over time to the 
wall plaster caused by leaking water.Mr A has said that there had been further delays in settling his home insurance claim, but 
from the evidence Ive seen QIC has shown they were actively trying to obtain copies of the 
various reports referred to in my decision. And were reliant on Mr A to provide them with 
copies. Upon receipt they told Mr A the outcome of his home insurance claim.
I know Mr A will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate this has been a difficult 
time for him. But I consider QIC has acted fairly and reasonably in reconsidering his claim 
and applying the terms of his home insurance policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman