DRN-2375321
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain that a key benefit was withdrawn in 2013 from a joint packaged 
bank account they held with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) and they were not 
informed.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs L took out a fee free joint account with NatWest in August 1980. They 
upgraded the account to an Advantage Private Account (APA) in November 2007.
NatWest stopped offering the APA in February 2012 and migrated Mr L and Mrs L onto a 
Black Account (BA).
Mr L and Mrs L complain that the benefit of having a Private Bank Manager, which originally 
came with the APA, they say was withdrawn in 2013 and they were not informed about it. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint and Mr L and Mrs L disagree, so 
the complaint has come to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L and Mrs L have been very clear that their complaint is only about the withdrawal of the 
Private Bank Manager benefit, so Ill consider the evidence I have for this.
I note Mr L and Mrs Ls submission that a letter they were sent by NatWest in 2019 says that 
the benefit was withdrawn in 2013. NatWest has subsequently said it made an error on this 
and the removal of the service was earlier.
I have reviewed all the correspondence that Mr L and Mrs L have sent in and the example 
letters and brochures which Nat West says it sent to all customers who had APAs and then 
migrated to BAs.
In the original brochure given to Mr L and Mrs L in 2007 about the APA, it clearly states in 
bold letters and as a main feature that each account holder will have a Dedicated 
Relationship Manager. So, Im satisfied this was part of the original APA package and Ill 
refer to it hereafter as a Private Bank Manager, as Mr L and Mrs L have done.
In a letter NatWest sent to APA holders in 2010 where the benefits are summarized, there is 
no reference to a Private Bank Manager, and instead the letter refers customers to 
Advantage Private Membership Services for any support or assistance.
In 2011 NatWest sent a letter to APA holders informing them that the APA would no longer 
be available and that they could choose to have a BA, as the nearest equivalent one if they 
wanted to. In this letter, NatWest shows a comparison between the benefits of the APA and 
the BA. A Private Bank Manager is not mentioned for either product.
In the letter NatWest sent to new BA holders in 2012 following the migration, there is no 
mention of a Private Bank Manager.
In a letter NatWest sent in 2013 informing BA holders of a change to the mobile phone 
insurance, a summary of benefits is shown in the letter, these do not include a Private Bank 
Manager.
The BA brochure Nat West produced in 2014 does not mention a Private Bank Manager, but 
it does refer to a Private 24 service phone line.
NatWest says it has been unable to find any letter sent to BA holders in 2013 saying it has 
withdrawn a Private Bank Manager Service. It says it wouldnt have sent one as it doesnt 
believe the service existed by that time.
From this, I conclude that the Private Bank Manager service wasnt withdrawn in 2013. I 
think its more likely than not this was a benefit change to the APA between November 2007 
and April 2010. NatWest doesnt have any record of changes before 2010, as I wouldnt 
necessarily expect it to, so Im not able to know how this was done.
Mr L and Mrs L say the withdrawal of the Private Bank Manager service would have been 
very important to them and they would have stopped using their packaged bank account if 
they realized it had gone. But if this were the case, I think its more likely than not they 
wouldve noticed that it wasnt in the BA product offering in 2011 and queried it and 
potentially not taken out the BA. But they did take out the BA and kept it for many years 
without using the Private Bank Manager service.
So, although I dont doubt Mr L and Mrs Ls honest recollections, I think its more likely than 
not that the service change occurred while the product was an APA and there were enough 
benefits for Mr L and Mrs L to continue to be interested in their packaged bank account both 
before and after the migration from their APA to their BA. 
So, I think its more likely than not that NatWest didnt do anything wrong, and although I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr L and Mrs L, I cant uphold their complaint, based on 
the evidence available.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman