DRN-4093832
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC withheld his salary for two consecutive months.
What happened
Mr S received his salary from working overseas via an international payment into his Lloyds 
current account. But in March 2022, Lloyds withheld his salary payment due to due diligence 
checks. Mr S says they released this payment two weeks later. Mr S made a complaint to 
Lloyds, and he says they rang him and sent him a letter. They also refunded his arranged 
overdraft charges from 23 March-13 April 2022, which was a total of £49.56. The same thing 
happened the following month, but this caused Mr S financial difficulty and a great deal of 
stress. He says he was without his salary for 18 days this time. Mr S made a further 
complaint to Lloyds, but they did not uphold his complaint. They said the payment was held 
for compliance checks, but there were no set timescales for these types of checks. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. He said that this time he didnt receive a phone 
call and they didnt refund any of his overdraft interest. Our investigator did not uphold Mr S 
complaint. She said the payments were held for compliance checks, which all banks are 
allowed to do and therefore there had been no bank error. She said Lloyds compensated 
him for the charges that he had occurred as a gesture of goodwill for the March 2022 salary 
payment, without admitting an error. She said delays caused by security checks cant be 
classed as an error. Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said for the 
bank to check his first salary deposit and then deem it ok after completing the security 
checks, only to withhold a payment from the very same source the following month is an 
error in his opinion. He said an aggravating factor is the way they treated him in the 
aftermath, which was different to the previous time he complained about this issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent fraudulent transactions. Sometimes they identify and withhold legitimate 
payments that a customer receives. This can cause distress and inconvenience to a 
customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. Unfortunately, it can 
take time for them to complete their investigations.
I can understand how distressing this must have been for Mr S and I have a lot of sympathy 
for the position he found himself in  through no fault of his own. So when the same thing 
happened the following month, I can understand why hed be more distressed, especially 
given what hes told us about his financial difficulty and his personal circumstances at the 
time. While I can understand Mr S point about Lloyds deeming the original payment to be 
fine so they should not have taken the same action that they did with his April 2022 salary 
payment, Im not persuaded by this and Ill explain why.
Due to the method of payment, this was not set up as a regular transfer. Just because a 
reference includes the word salary, this does not mean that the payment is a salary payment 
 although in this case it was. Fraudsters would try and mask the legitimacy of funds. So 
Lloyds would have a duty to ensure each payment received is legitimate. The payment 
received by them in April, and credited in May 2022, was for £2,000 less than the previous 
month and represented roughly 40% of the previous payment. 
So Im not persuaded that this should mean they shouldnt complete checks on a new 
payment and especially when there are substantial differences in the payments. The route 
the payment had taken was not direct from the sender to Lloyds as it involved other financial 
institutions. It was in a currency different to what credited his account and appears to have 
been in a currency other than the country Mr S was working from, so it would take time for 
Lloyds to unravel the genuine source of the payment and to be satisfied the payment was 
legitimate. So I cant evidence Lloyds have done anything wrong here, by withholding the 
payment while they carried out their checks to ensure the legitimacy of the payment.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about how Lloyds have treated him in comparison to the 
two complaints he made to them. Lloyds apologised for taking longer than 15 days to send 
Mr S their final response to his last complaint, which I think is proportionate in the 
circumstances. Lloyds are not obliged to give a phone call when discussing a complaint or to 
refund some of his interest. The previous complaint letter said they would refund his interest 
on this occasion, which would indicate that they wouldnt refund his interest on every 
occasion this happened. So it follows I dont require Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman