DRN-3358869
The complaint
Miss O complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) did not make her aware that setting 
up a repayment plan would show on her credit file and reflect negatively. 
What happened
Miss O complained to Santander that it failed to explain the impact her arrangement to pay 
back her overdraft would have on her credit file. Santander said on the calls it had with Miss 
O it was explained that leaving her account in an arrangement for longer could further impact 
her credit file and that the arrangement she had agreed with it would show on her credit file. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Os concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Santander hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss O unfairly.  
Miss O disagreed, she says the information given to her wasnt clear enough and had she 
understood how the arrangement was going to impact her credit file she would have paid 
back the debt sooner. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Os complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
Miss O says Santander failed to inform her that the longer she was in a repayment plan or 
arrangement the more it would negatively impact her credit file and if shed known about this 
she wouldve paid back her debt sooner. 
Santander have provided us with the recordings of Miss Os phone conversations with 
collections when she was setting up the arrangement to pay back her overdraft debt. Ive 
listened carefully to this and there was a discussion between her and the advisor where it 
was explained to her that having an outstanding balance is worse than an arrangement to 
pay and that ideally clearing the balance in full is best but it was about what she could afford. 
Miss O then when on to question whether her credit score would bounce back once her 
debt was paid off and the advisor explained he wasnt a financial advisor so couldnt advise 
on that particular point  but it was a good idea to keep an eye on her credit file.
Miss O also made it clear during the call that despite being able to afford more on a monthly 
basis to pay back her debt she wanted to keep it at the £200 agreed despite the fact she had 
been told being in an arrangement longer could impact her credit file. 
So I cant say Santander has done anything wrong here. Santander has a duty to make sure 
the information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit reference agencies (CRAs) it 
subscribes to is factually accurate and from what Ive there have been no errors in what it 
reported. And even before entering into the arrangement Miss O wouldve had adverse 
information on her credit file for missed payments  hence the reason for needing to set up 
the arrangement in the first place. 
Ive noted Miss O concerns that her the information recorded on her credit file may affect her 
ability to borrow money. She might be interested to know that she can place a Notice of 
Correction on her credit records. The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the 
opportunity to add any explanatory circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to 
take into consideration when making lending decisions. If she wishes to do this, she should 
contact the credit reference agencies directly.
So I dont think that Santander treated Miss O unfairly or unreasonably as it advised her that 
entering an arrangement could impact her credit file and no errors have been made in the 
information it reported and this means that Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Os complaint and Im not asking 
Santander UK Plc to do anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman