DRN-3707616
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy about conflicting information given to him by Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) and his treatment by their staff when he visited a branch.  
What happened
In or around February 2022, Mr W visited a branch of Nationwide. At the time of his visit he 
was accompanied by his two dogs. When he asked if he could bring the dogs into the 
branch, Mr W says he was told it would be at the managers discretion. He was 
subsequently told he couldnt bring his dogs into the branch. Mr W thought Nationwides 
policy here was conflicting. 
He wanted to pay money into his account with them. Nationwide staff directed him to an 
ATM to do that. But Mr W wasnt familiar with how they worked and wanted to pay his money 
in with a cashier. He said the staff member snatched his money from him and deposited it 
over the counter.
Mr W then requested a statement. But he was told this was only available from an ATM. Mr 
W wasnt happy with their response. He said hed been told previously he could obtain a 
statement from the cashier. After a period of discussion, Mr W waited to speak to the branch 
manager who was in a meeting at the time. 
Mr W agreed to leave the branch and return to meet with the manager. Having returned 
about 10-15 minutes later, he was again told he couldnt bring his dogs into the branch. So, 
a discussion took place with the manager outside of the branch. He says the manager 
offered to help him but went back inside the branch having said she would call him. But Mr 
W says he didnt receive that call.
Unhappy with his experience, Mr W called Nationwide to complain. He felt hed been given 
conflicting information about bringing his dogs into the branch and his ability to obtain a 
statement. He was also unhappy with how the branch staff had treated him and spoken to 
him. He thought Nationwide should review CCTV footage to support his recollection of 
events.
Having investigated Mr Ws complaint, Nationwide detailed their findings in a letter in early 
March 2022. They confirmed that dogs are not allowed in their branches unless theyre 
assistance or guide dogs. They agreed Mr W may have been misled and apologised. They 
also said mini statements were only available from their ATMs. A full statement could only be 
printed by their cashier. They said this had been explained to Mr W previously, so didnt 
agree hed been given conflicting information.
Nationwide said theyd obtained independent testimonies from their branch staff about Mr 
Ws visit. These suggested Mr W had been argumentative and confrontational with their staff 
and they couldnt find any evidence to suggest theyd been rude to him.
Mr W wasnt happy with Nationwides response, so he decided to refer his complaint to this 
service. He wanted our investigator to also review CCTV footage of his branch visit. Having 
considered all the evidence available, our investigator didnt agree that Nationwide had 
treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably. And as CCTV footage wouldnt include any audio 
evidence, didnt think this would add anything further. Particularly as Mr Ws and 
Nationwides recollections were very similar.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators conclusions here. So, as an agreement couldnt be 
reached, Ive been asked to consider his complaint further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I believe its important to explain the role of this service when considering Mr 
Ws complaint here. 
It isnt the role of this service to ask a business to alter their policies or procedures or impose 
improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly 
within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mr Ws experience with them. When considering his complaint, Ive also 
considered any relevant rules and regulations where they may apply. 
Nationwide have explained that its their policy not to allow dogs into their branches unless 
they are assistance or guide dogs. Theyve also confirmed this policy is displayed outside all 
their branches. Mr W says he was told this was down to managers discretion, although it 
appears this isnt the case. While Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr W was told this, 
Nationwide accept he may have been misinformed and have apologised. And I think this is a 
reasonable response here.
It appears Mr W had previously complained to Nationwide about obtaining statements in 
their branches which theyd upheld. But as this isnt the complaint referred to this service, I 
cant comment on that. But I understand that Nationwide clarified their policy with Mr W at 
that time. So, Im persuaded that Mr W shouldve been aware that mini statements could 
only be obtained from Nationwides ATMs. And as Mr Ws request followed the deposit of his 
money, I think it was reasonable to assume that he wanted a statement to confirm the 
deposit. So, I dont think it was unreasonable to direct Mr W to an ATM in the absence of him 
clearly clarifying his requirement.
Ive then considered Mr Ws suggestion that branch staff were rude to him. Nationwide have 
confirmed they completed a thorough investigation and obtained testimonies from the branch 
staff involved. Having reviewed those, I think their recollections generally all provide a similar 
account of what happened. Where theres a dispute about what happened, I must decide on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider was most likely to have happened, 
given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Given the similarities across Nationwides independent staff testimonies, I havent found 
enough evidence to persuade me Nationwide did anything wrong. Its clear that Mr W was 
very unhappy with his experience. Particularly in relation to Nationwides policies regarding 
his dogs and his statement requirement. And because he couldnt use the branch in the way 
he wanted, I can completely understand why he may have been frustrated and annoyed.
Like our investigator, I agree that reviewing CCTV footage is not likely to be useful here. Mr 
Ws recollections of his movements in and around the branch appear to be supported by the 
staff testimonies. So, without being able to hear specifically what was said, Im not 
persuaded the footage would add anything more.
Using financial services wont always be totally hassle free and this service wouldnt 
normally consider awards for things that arent more serious than the normal nuisances of 
everyday life. So just because Nationwide may have misinformed Mr W, it doesnt 
necessarily follow that we should always award compensation  especially when the impact is minimal. And In this case, Nationwide did apologise if Mr W felt he was misinformed. 
Thats what I would expect them to do here.
I want to reassure Mr W that Ive considered everything hes said very carefully. But as I 
havent found any clear evidence to support his suggestion that staff were rude to him, I 
cant reasonably say Nationwide treated him unfairly or unreasonably. And while I appreciate 
he will be disappointed; I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman