DRN-3430666
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain about Brazier Consulting Services Ltd (BCS) and their failure to 
progress their claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) effectively.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr H instructed BCS to pursue a claim for mis-sold PPI against Lender L. BCS 
submitted this claim to Lender L, who rejected the claim. So, BCS referred the claim to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service in September 2020.
In March 2021, the Financial Ombudsman Service sent their answer to BCS, acting as Mrs 
H and Mr Hs representative, explaining they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold and so, didnt 
uphold the complaint. Within this answer, they explained Mrs H and Mr H could escalate 
their complaint to an Ombudsman for a review if they remained unhappy. But no response 
was received and so, the complaint was closed.
Mrs H and Mr H say they chased BCS for an update after March 2021. And they say they 
were told BCS were waiting for an outcome to the complaint. So, they contacted the 
Financial Ombudsman Service directly in November, where they were told the complaint had 
been closed and that it was now too late for it to be re-opened and escalated. Mrs H and Mr 
H were unhappy about this, so they raised a complaint.
Mrs H and Mr H were unhappy BCS failed to notify them of the Financial Ombudsman 
Services outcome in March 2021. And they were unhappy that because of this, they were 
now unable to have their complaint escalated to an Ombudsman. They thought BCS failure 
had led to this loss of opportunity and so, they wanted to be compensated for this.
BCS didnt respond to this complaint within the 8-week period they are afforded. So, Mrs H 
and Mr H referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They explained they had requested 
information from BCS on several occasions, with no response. So, they had reached their 
view based on the evidence and testimony provided by Mrs H and Mr H. And from this, they 
thought BCS had acted unfairly as they hadnt made Mrs H and Mr H aware of the Financial 
Ombudsman Services outcome, or their right to escalate the complaint to an Ombudsman. 
So, they thought BCS should pay Mrs H and Mr H £150 to recognise this loss of opportunity. 
Our investigator explained they were unable to speculate on whether the Ombudsman 
wouldve overturned the initial outcome, or that the PPI claim itself shouldve been upheld, 
so these points hadnt been factored in when deciding the compensation amount.
Neither Mrs H and Mr H nor BCS responded to our investigator explaining whether they 
wished to accept or reject the recommended compensatory offer. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I can see our service has requested information from BCS on several occasions, allowing 
them the opportunity to respond to Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint and provide their version of 
events. BCS have failed to respond to these requests, so my decision is focused solely on 
the evidence and testimony provided by Mrs H and Mr H, with adverse inference being made 
on BCS lack of engagement.
And from what I can see, BCS did refer Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service in September 2020, after Lender L decided there was no mis-sold PPU 
on Mrs H and Mr Hs account.
And I can see the Financial Ombudsman Service provided their initial answer to this 
complaint in March 2021, again stating their belief the PPI wasnt mis-sold and so, that 
Lender L had acted fairly when coming to that decision. Within this answer, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service explained Mrs H and Mr H could escalate their complaint to an 
Ombudsman if they remained unhappy. But, they explained Mrs H and Mr H would need to 
respond by 9 April 2021. 
I can see this answer was sent to BCS. And I cant see any evidence to show BCS 
communicated this with Mrs H and Mr H. So, I dont think Mrs H and Mr H were made aware 
of this time limit, and the options available to them. And because of this, they lost the 
opportunity to escalate their complaint within the Financial Ombudsman Service. So, I think 
BCS acted unfairly and because of this, Ive then thought about what I think BCS should do 
to put things right.
Putting things right
When considering what BCS should do to put things right, any direction or award I make is 
intended to place Mrs H and Mr H back in the position they wouldve been, had BCS acted 
fairly.
In this situation, had BCS acted fairly, they wouldve made Mrs H and Mr H aware of the 
Financial Ombudsman Services initial answer, and their ability to escalate the complaint if 
they remained unhappy. And from Mrs H and Mr Hs testimony, I think its reasonable for me 
to assume they wouldve escalated their complaint as they feel strongly that the PPI was 
mis-sold to them. 
Unfortunately, Im unable to make the Financial Ombudsman Service re-open the complaint 
and allow an Ombudsman to consider Mrs H and Mr Hs concerns. And I recognise how 
upsetting this will be for Mrs H and Mr H, and the frustration they will feel from wondering 
what may have happened had an Ombudsman reviewed their complaint.
But I also must make it clear to Mrs H and Mr H that Im unable to speculate on what 
decision an Ombudsman wouldve reached. So, I have no way of knowing whether their 
claim wouldve been upheld. And because of this, Im unable to consider the financial loss 
they feel theyve incurred as I cant say for sure they wouldve received a refund. In fact, if I 
were to make an assumption, I think its most likely the claim wouldnt have been upheld as 
the initial answer provided by the Financial Ombudsman Service explained an 
Ombudsmans decision would likely be the same unless Mrs H and Mr H had further information to provide. And I would assume all the information they had would already have 
been forwarded by this point.
So, any award I make is focused solely on the upset and frustration Mrs H and Mr H 
wouldve felt when realising theyd lost their opportunity to escalate their complaint. Our 
investigator recommended BCS pay Mrs H and Mr H £150 to recognise this. And I think this 
is offer is a fair one, and in line with what I wouldve awarded had it not already been made. I 
think it fairly reflects the upset Mrs H and Mr H will have felt, while also factoring in the fact 
we are unable to speculate on whether the claim wouldve been successful when escalate. 
So, I think BCS should pay Mrs H and Mr H £150. 
I understand this may not be the entire outcome Mrs H and Mr H were looking for. And I 
appreciate they believed the PPI attached to their account with Lender L was mis-sold, 
hence their decision to instruct BCS in the first place. But I hope my decision explains clearly 
what I have, and havent, been able to consider whether thinking about what BCS should do 
to put things right and I hope it brings them some closure to the issue.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint about Brazier 
Consulting Services Ltd and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs H and Mr H £150 to recognise the upset their failure in service had caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman