DRN-3567637
The complaint
Miss V complained about long waiting times when she contacted Santander UK Plc by 
telephone, and poor customer service when she spoke to its complaints team.  
What happened
Miss V had a bank account with Santander. She regularly used its telephone banking 
facilities to carry out banking transactions. 
Miss V complained to Santander in September 2021 about the length of time she had spent 
in the telephone banking queue waiting for an advisor to answer her call. 
Santander telephoned Miss V on 9 September 2021 in response to her complaint. Miss V 
then raised a complaint about how the advisor handled that call. 
Santander issued a final response letter the following day in relation to both complaints. It 
said that during the time of Miss Vs call Santander was experiencing a very busy period and 
had no control over this. It said people could at times be inconvenienced in their day to day 
dealings with businesses. It reviewed the call with the complaint handler on 9 September 
2021 and didnt find evidence of poor service. 
Santanders complaints team spoke to Miss V by phone on 13 September 2021. She raised 
another complaint about a member of the complaints team trying to call her during a hospital 
appointment. She also spoke again about the earlier complaints raised. 
Miss V contacted Santander again on 29 September 2021 and raised another complaint 
about call waiting times. She spoke to a member of the complaints team who confirmed her 
complaint about call waiting times had already been dealt with and closed. Miss V then 
raised a complaint about how the advisor handled the call, in particular that he had said her 
illness wasnt relevant to the complaint. 
Santander issued a final response letter on 1 October 2021. It said it reviewed the complaint 
and its original decision from September was unchanged. It said the service provided was 
acceptable. 
Santander issued a final response letter on 13 October 2021 in response to Miss Vs 
complaint made on 29 September 2021. It apologised for the comment made by the advisor 
about her illness. It offered Miss V £75 compensation. It also said it had noted on its systems 
that Miss V is a vulnerable consumer. 
Miss V was unhappy with the responses from Santander and so complained to this Service. 
Our Investigator did not uphold her complaint. Miss V didnt agree with the outcome and so 
this has come to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 7 June 2022. I said I didnt intend to uphold Miss Vs 
complaint as I didnt think Santander had made any errors. I also said there were parts of 
Miss Vs complaint that this Service couldnt look into, as they were matters related to 
complaint handling. I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. Miss V responded and 
said shes keen for this matter to be resolved, as shes unwell and its taken up a lot of her 
time. Santander didnt respond. I am now in a position to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parts to Miss Vs complaint about Santander. The first is about Miss Vs 
attempts to use Santanders telephone banking facility and the length of time she had to wait 
for an advisor to answer a call. The second is about Miss Vs unhappiness with how the 
various advisors in the complaint handling department spoke to her when they contacted her 
by telephone to discuss her complaint about call waiting times. This decision will address the 
first part of Miss Vs complaint, but not the second. This is because the second part of the 
complaint falls under complaint handling, and this Service does not deal with complaints 
about complaint handling. 
To explain further, there are limitations to what types of complaint this Service can look into. 
Broadly speaking, we can only look into activities that are regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The FCAs Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules outline what activities fall within 
this Services jurisdiction (DISP 2.3). But complaint handling is not one of the activities listed. 
Ive listened to two of the three calls Santanders complaint handling department made to 
Miss V. Ive also seen what I believe to be a comprehensive transcript of the third call. Its 
clear to me that all of these calls were made by the advisors to Miss V in order for them to 
provide a response to Miss Vs complaint about waiting times. So any complaints 
subsequently raised by Miss V about how Santander dealt with her complaint about call 
waiting times fall under the banner of complaint handling. And, as I said, complaint handling 
is not listed by the FCA as a regulated activity that falls within this Services remit. So I am 
not able to look into this part of Miss Vs complaint. 
I can, however, look at Miss Vs complaint about call waiting times. While I appreciate that 
Miss V has a medical condition that means it can sometimes be both difficult and 
inconvenient for her to have to wait for a call to be answered, I dont think Santander has 
done anything wrong here and I wont be asking it to take any further action. Ill explain why. 
Its my understanding that Miss V thinks its unacceptable that individuals with medical 
conditions, such as Miss Vs, have to wait for long periods of time to use telephone banking. 
From what I can see, Santanders call centre telephone systems are currently set up in such 
a way that its simply not possible to prioritise one call over another. This Service largely 
wont interfere with an organisations business practices, including how it has set up its call 
centre telephone system and staffing availability at call centres. It is the role of the regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority, to monitor how a business conducts this type of activity. So 
I wont be asking Santander to make what would amount to systemic changes to its 
telephone banking system.
There are other banking options available to Miss V, such as going into branch or using 
online banking. Miss V doesnt want to use these, and it is of course up to her to choose how 
she uses Santanders banking facilities. But the reality is Miss V has chosen to use a method 
that will invariably involve some waiting times. This cant be avoided. While I would expect 
Santander to deal sensitively with Miss V, given her medical condition, when she does get 
through to its advisors, I cant see that theres anything else Santander can do here. While I appreciate the difficulties Miss V experiences as a result of her medical condition, I 
could only ask Santander to take further action if I thought it had made an error or acted 
unreasonably, and I dont think its done either. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold Miss Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman