DRN-2161187
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her package bank accounts (PBAs).
What happened
Mrs W first had an account with Lloyds in 1990. She didnt have a fee-paying account until 
February 2007 when her account was changed into a Gold AVA account. A few years ago 
Mrs W complained to Lloyds about the way that PBA started. She has accepted that we 
cant look into her complaint about that now, because of the time-limit rules that apply to the 
ombudsman service. 
In July 2017, Mrs Ws account was changed into a Club Lloyds Gold account, and in May 
2019 it became a Club Platinum account. In around May 2019 another person was added 
to the account, making it a joint account. We are able to look at how those were set up in 
2017 and 2019, and our adjudicators assessed whether Mrs Ws complaints about those 
events should be upheld. However, the adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they 
didnt think Mrs Ws complaint, as it related to those two account sales, should be upheld. 
Mrs W didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me, to give a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
First, I would emphasise that Im not looking at what happened before 2015, which is 
when Mrs W complained previously to Lloyds. This is because of the time limits that apply 
to the ombudsman service. 
The Club Lloyds was an extra that was added to Mrs Ws Gold AVA account in 2017. 
This cost an extra £3 each month (and this was waived if you paid into your account at 
least £1,500 each month) bringing the total Mrs W paid each month for her account to 
potentially £17.95. In return this add-on gave bank benefits such as preferential interest 
rate offers, and a choice of a lifestyle benefit  free cinema tickets or magazine 
subscriptions or membership of a dining society.
The Platinum account was a PBA that was sold to Mrs W in May 2019 (it was changed 
down to a fee-free account about a month later). The Platinum Account cost £19 each 
month and included benefits such as worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover, 
Sentinel card protection and 180 day purchase protection; also an interest free overdraft. 
By comparison to the Gold AVA account, the main difference was that the Platinum 
account gave enhanced breakdown cover (it included Homestart and Relay) and £300 
free overdraft compared to £150. 
Mrs W says she was told she had to take a PBA as, otherwise, she couldnt have 
insurance. She says she told them she had only a cheap mobile phone and her car was 
already covered by the RAC. Its not clear whether Mrs W is saying this only about the 
first PBA she had, in 2007  which, as Ive explained, Im not looking at because of time 
limits. But Ive checked whether there is evidence of this applying to the sales of 2017 and 
2019; and Ive generally looked at whether these two PBA sales were unfair and, if so, 
whether Mrs W lost out.
I think Lloyds recommended both the extra Club Lloyds in 2017, and the change to a 
Platinum account in 2019. So these recommendations needed to be appropriate for 
Mrs Ws individual circumstances. But I dont think those recommended changes were 
inappropriate.
The change in 2017 offered some extra benefits which look as though Mrs W could have 
benefited from  and I understand she did choose one of the lifestyle benefits. 
The evidence of the sale in 2019 supports that Lloyds discussed the various benefits of 
the PBA and how much Mrs W (and her joint account holder) would make use of the 
various benefits. It seems Mrs W could have made use of the mobile phone, breakdown 
and travel insurance. Its not clear at what date she told Lloyds about her medical 
condition, which might have made the travel insurance not a suitable recommendation  
on the Lloyds record of their discussion, it says she told them she had no medical 
conditions at that time; and she told us her diagnosis had been a few months after the 
May 2019 sale, and that she was told she would have to pay £600 extra to the travel 
insurer, and so she changed back to a fee-free account. And, in any case, the other 
insurance was potentially useful to her, and it looks as though her joint account holder 
would still have been covered by the travel insurance. 
So I think the recommendation of the PBA in May 2019 was appropriate. And I think its 
likely shed have had reasonable awareness that she could make different choices. I say 
this because Mrs W had previously had a fee free account, and because she had made a 
complaint about mis-sale in 2015. 
Once Lloyds had made its recommendations, it would then be up to Mrs W to decide 
whether she wanted to pay the extra fees to gain the extra benefits. And it does seem 
likely she had an understanding of how much the accounts would cost and what benefits 
they offered.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman