DRN-1084388
 
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains that HSBC Bank Plc wrongly closed its account. M is 
represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mrs M. Mrs M asks that HSBC re-opens Ms 
account and pays compensation for M missing out on a grant of £2,500 and £1,000 
compensation for her upset.
What happened
HSBC closed Ms account in March 2019. It says this was because the account was dormant 
and overdrawn. While it had asked Mrs M for information as part of its safeguard process, it 
said this wasnt the reason the account was closed. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said while HSBC 
didnt give 60 days notice before closing the account, as required by the terms and 
conditions, this wouldnt have changed matters. The account had been overdrawn without 
any credits for more than 90 days. Mrs M didnt respond to HSBCs letters about the account 
being overdrawn, which said the account could be closed if the debt wasn't paid.
M didnt agree. Mrs M says this caused considerable inconvenience as M needs an account 
to apply for and receive grants. She says this has been especially difficult as she has health 
problems, a child with a disability and her own health has been deteriorating. Mrs M says her 
wellbeing affects the performance of the company. And her health means she cant visit a 
branch and can only open accounts online. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Ms account was opened in early October 2018 and a credit was made into the account. 
After this, there were debits and no further credits. The account became overdrawn in early 
December 2018. There were no transactions on the account after December 2018.
HSBC wrote to Mrs M about the overdrawn account in early January 2019, asking for 
payment within 14 days and saying the account may be closed. It wrote again in early 
February 2019. The February letter said if paymentisnt received within 14 days, your 
account will be closed. 
Ms account was closed on 25 March 2019. HSBC wrote off the overdraft debt.
did HSBC act fairly?HSBC's terms and conditions say it can close an account by giving 60 days notice, although 
in some circumstances it can close an account without notice.
Mrs M says she was given inconsistent information by HSBC, which had also been writing to 
her asking for information as part of its safeguard process. Mrs M called HSBC in March 
2019 in response to a letter asking for information. She says she was assured everything 
was fine. Nonetheless, Mrs M had been sent letters saying that the account would be closed 
if the overdraft debt wasnt paid. So I think she ought reasonably to have been aware that 
this needed to be dealt with. 
The purpose of giving notice is to allow the customer time to open an account elsewhere and 
to take steps to reduce the disruption caused by the account closure. HSBC didnt give 60 
days notice to M before closing its account, as set out in its terms and conditions. Ive 
considered what effect this had on M. 
I understand that Mrs Ms circumstances are difficult and this matter has caused her upset. 
But I must bear in mind that the complainant here is M. So I have to consider the effect this 
had on M.
As a limited company, M doesnt feel upset. While Mrs M says M missed out on grants due 
to the account being closed she hasnt provided evidence of this. Mrs M says M lost income 
and was unable to pay wages, but again I havent seen evidence to support this. I dont think 
its reasonable to require HSBC to pay compensation for financial loss without evidence of 
the loss and that the loss was due to an error by HSBC.
There were no transactions on Ms account between December 2018 and March 2019. So I 
think any inconvenience caused by the account being closed without the full 60 days notice 
would have been limited. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require HSBC to pay any 
compensation to M.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman