DRN-1312361
 
complaint
Mr K complains that he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by Santander UK 
Plc.
background
Mr K took out a mortgage with Santander in 1991. At the same time he bought a PPI policy 
which wouldve covered his mortgage repayments for up to two years at a time if he was too 
ill to work or if he was made redundant.
Mr K says he didnt realise hed taken the PPI. He says he didnt need it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. Mr K disagrees, so his case 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ks 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr K says that he took out his mortgage through a broker and that he just signed all the 
documents that were given to him. Santander isnt sure exactly how it was sold, but it has 
taken responsibility for the sale.
Santander has provided a sample copy of the mortgage application form Mr K would have 
completed and signed. This has a separate section for PPI which shows that Mr K would 
have had a choice about taking it. Hed also have had to complete a PPI application form 
and would have received confirmation that his cover had been put in place. It also would 
have appeared on his completion statement for his mortgage. I dont think it would have 
been possible for the PPI to have been set up if all of these steps hadnt taken place. 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Santander didnt follow their usual practices so, 
on balance, on the limited information I have nearly 30 years after the sale, I cant be 
satisfied Santander added the PPI without Mr Ks knowledge or consent. 
Santander has worked on the basis it wouldve offered Mr K a personal recommendation 
about the policy. This means Santander had an obligation to take reasonable steps to make 
sure it was right for Mr K. Looking at Mr Ks circumstances at the time of sale I think its likely 
that it was. I say this because:
 Mr K was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such as 
those related to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr K says he had good sick pay from his employer. I havent seen any evidence of 
this, but the policy wouldve paid out in addition to his sick pay, and potentially for 
much longer  up to two years at a time;
Mr K says he had some savings, and he could have relied on family to help him out if 
he wasnt working. But the policy wouldve avoided him having to rely on other 
people whose own circumstances couldnt be guaranteed either. And his savings 
couldve been used to cover other uninsured expenses that Mr K wouldve had;
The cost of the policy was comparable with other similar policies on the market 
around the same time. It was flexible because it could be cancelled at any time 
without financial penalty. 
 
Santander also had to give Mr K enough information about the policy so he could make his 
own mind up about it. I cant know what information was given to Mr K at the time, but even if 
it wasnt good enough I dont think Mr K wouldve acted differently and not bought it if hed 
understood everything. I say this because the policy was suitable for him in the way Ive 
already described.
So I dont think Mr K lost out as a result of anything Santander mightve done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint, so it follows that Santander UK Plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman