DRN-3726902
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that about the way Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
dealt with her when she tried to make a claim under her home insurance policy when she 
had an escape of water in her home.
What happened
Shortly before Christmas 2021, Mrs S found a leak in her property.  Water started coming 
through her ceiling into her light fittings, causing damage to the ceiling and to carpets below.  
Mrs S called RSA to arrange for the problem to be fixed under the terms of her home 
insurance policy.
RSA sent an engineer to deal with the immediate problem under the home emergency 
assistance included with Mrs Ss policy.  But the engineer told Mrs S they couldnt trace the 
source of the leak under this.  
The engineer called RSA to see if she had cover for tracing the leak.  But RSA confirmed 
Mrs S didnt have this on her policy.  
The engineer offered to try and find the source of the leak.  But he told Mrs S hed need to 
make a hole in her ceiling to do this.  Mrs S wasnt happy with this so no further work to trace 
the leak was done.
RSA appointed a company to assess the damage the leak had caused.  But they repeated 
that Mrs S had no cover for dealing with the leak itself and shed need to arrange this work 
herself.     
Mrs S was unhappy with what shed been told and complained.  She said no-one had told 
her when she bought the policy that she wouldnt be covered for repairing a leak.  In 
response, RSA explained again that she didnt have cover to trace the source of the leak, 
although their agent could assess the damage it had caused.  
But RSA did agree that one of the calls Mrs S had with a member of their staff hadnt been 
handled as it should have been.  They offered her £50 compensation for this.  
Mrs S escalated her complaint.  But she didnt receive a final response from RSA before she 
brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator considered it and concluded RSA didnt need to do any more to resolve  
Mrs Ss complaint.  She noted the claim notes confirmed the source of the leak wasnt 
visible.  The engineer would have had to trace it  and Mrs Ss policy didnt provide cover for 
this.  So she was satisfied RSA had correctly applied the terms of the policy.
The investigator also noted RSA had offered Mrs S an appointment to assess the damage 
caused by the leak  which, again, was in line with the policy terms.  And she said RSAs 
offer to pay her £50 for not dealing with one of her calls appropriately was reasonable.
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint  but Im not asking RSA to do more than 
theyve already offered to resolve it.  Ill explain why.
My role is to decide whether RSA have dealt with Mrs Ss claim fairly, in line with the policy 
terms.  So Ive started by considering those terms.
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality.  Mrs Ss policy provides two options for 
cover  referred to as primary and upgraded.  Theres also an option to buy cover for 
accidental damage.  The renewal documentation and schedule provided by RSA shows   
Mrs S bought primary cover for both her buildings and contents.  She also took accidental 
damage cover for both and had £200 home emergency assistance.
The policy document states that primary buildings cover insures against a variety of risks, 
including escape of water.  But, in the box headed Significant exclusions or limitations, it 
says:
We do not cover the cost of removing and replacing any part of the buildings necessary to 
trace leaking oil or water or repairing damage caused by such investigations.  This cover is 
provided by the Upgraded Buildings Cover Option.
So Im satisfied Mrs S didnt have cover to trace the source of the leak in her home. Mrs S 
has said she didnt know this.  And that it should have been brought to her attention when 
she bought the policy.  Ive thought about this.
The renewal documentation Mrs S makes it clear its up to her to check the policy 
documentation to make sure the policy meets her needs.  It includes a copy of an Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID), which summarises key information about the policy.  
The IPID sets out what is - and isnt - covered.  The summary under the heading What is 
not insured? includes almost identical wording to the wording in the policy quoted above.  
I think the wording in these two sections makes it clear to the reader Mrs S didnt have cover 
to trace the source of a leak or repair any damage that tracing caused  although she was 
covered for damage an escape of water caused.  So I think it was fair for RSA to advise her 
she wasnt covered for this and would need to arrange for that work herself.
Putting things right
While I dont think RSA did anything wrong by not covering the cost of tracing the leak, I do 
agree with them, and our investigator, that they should compensate Mrs S for their admitted 
failure to handle one of her calls appropriately.  Theyve offered her £50 for this, which Mrs S 
told us she didnt accept because she wanted all of her concerns addressed together.
While I understand what Mrs S is saying, I can only direct RSA to pay her compensation if 
Im satisfied they didnt treat her fairly  and that she was distressed and inconvenienced by 
this.
Thats not what happened here.  While Mrs S was understandably distressed by having a 
leak, that wasnt RSAs fault.  They sent an engineer to her home under the home 
emergency assistance cover she did have.   The engineer checked whether she had trace and access cover before taking any steps 
locate the leak.  When he found out she had no cover, he offered to try and find the source 
by making a hole in the ceiling.  But he made it clear Mrs S couldnt claim for the damage 
that would cause.  I think that was reasonable.
And Im satisfied from the notes Ive that RSA advised Mrs S that, although shed need to get 
the leak traced and fixed herself, they could consider a claim for the damage it caused.    
Mrs S told our initial call handler she didnt do that because she no longer wanted to deal 
with RSA because of what had happened  and felt she should be compensated for this.
Again, I dont think RSA did anything wrong here.  They explained what cover she had and 
offered to assess her claim under that cover.   Mrs S hasnt given them access to do that.  
And, while its her choice whether to pursue a claim, its not fair for me to say that RSA 
needs to do anything differently to put matters right.  
So I dont think RSA need to compensate Mrs S for anything other than the inappropriately 
handled call theyve identified.  I think £50 is a reasonable amount of compensation for that 
and RSA should pay this to Mrs S.  But I dont think they need to do anything else to resolve 
her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited and directing RSA to pay her the £50 compensation theyve previously 
offered her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman