DRN-3437035
The complaint
This complaint is about Mrs Ds mortgage and linked current account with Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. Shes been trying to secure a face to face meeting with someone from the bank to 
discuss the mortgage, but Barclays will only speak to her on the phone. When shes called 
the bank, Mrs D has found the experiences very distressing.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs D and Barclays. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs D being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points and then 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mrs D originally held the mortgage jointly with her husband. Since he died, she has had to 
deal with the mortgage on her own, in addition to coping with, and adjusting to, her 
bereavement. In 2021, Mrs D brought a complaint to us that the mortgage had been mis-sold 
at the outset. In October 2021, a fellow ombudsman issued a decision confirming that the 
complaint was one that our rules prevented us from considering. 
The ombudsman encouraged Mrs D to contact Barclays to try and work out a plan for paying 
the mortgage and current account. The complaint Im looking at here us about what 
happened when Mrs D tried to do that. She wanted to deal with someone directly at a 
branch, but Barclays policy is to deal with such matters through a dedicated phone team. 
When Mrs D did speak to people by phone, she found the experience highly distressing; the 
problems she has described included, but are not limited to, high levels of background noise, 
difficulty understanding call handlers accents, long periods on hold and more generally, a 
complete absence of any meaningful help.
Our investigator listened to the calls; not just those from October 2021 but throughout the 
whole of 2021.  Overall, he didnt think Barclays had done very much wrong; for the most 
part, he said that the main source of Mrs Ds dissatisfaction was her frustration that Barclays 
wouldnt agree to meet her face to face. As he explained, its not within our power to order 
that to happen. 
Barclays acknowledged shortcomings in the way it conducted one of the October 2021 calls, 
and offered Mrs D £100 compensation. The investigator thought that was fair, but Mrs D 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She believes the compensation 
should be at least ten times whats on offer. Shes also expressed her wish that the 
ombudsman reviewing her complaint order Barclays to change its policy on face to face 
meetings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. I should make clear that this decision is solely 
about the service Mrs D experienced during her phone calls and visits to branches during 
2021. My ombudsman colleague has previously decided we have no jurisdiction to consider 
the earlier complaint about the sale of the mortgage. Ive looked at that decision, and dont 
consider there are any grounds to justify me revisiting it. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. 
To be clear, and so theres no ambiguity, that remit does not allow me to order Barclays to 
adopt a policy of conducting interviews with borrowers face to face rather than by phone. 
Barclays is entitled to decide its own internal procedures and how it operates its business. 
And this is not something I can require it to change. What our remit does allow me to do is 
consider how Barclays conducted the phone calls it held with Mrs D.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions, and the reasons for them are as follows.
The number of calls that took place over the course of 2021 was close to 20; for the most 
part, the content of the calls was about Mrs D asking for a face to face meeting, and 
Barclays saying that wouldnt be possible. That, in itself, was no doubt upsetting and 
stressful for Mrs D, but Barclays wasnt doing anything fundamentally wrong here. It was 
simply delivering a message that Mrs D found unwelcome and frustrating. Mrs Ds entitled to 
feel the way she does about that underlying message, but I cant say it amounts to unfair 
treatment. Of course, long periods on hold are frustrating, but theyre not necessarily 
symptomatic of unfair treatment either. 
One clear exception to that general position is when, during one of the October 2021 calls, a 
staff member began speaking to Mrs D in the mistaken belief he was talking to a colleague. 
That was a mistake, and it clearly shouldnt have happened. 
Also, I can understand why Mrs D would have been upset to hear domestic family noise in 
the background during a call. Its an issue that has cropped up since businesses have 
adjusted to having large numbers of staff working from home rather than in an office. Ideally, 
the work environment at home should be arranged in such a way as to replicate the office 
experience as much as possible. Sadly, in Mrs Ds, that didnt happen. 
Barclays has offered compensation for these shortcomings, and whilst Ive no doubt Mrs D 
will think otherwise, I find the offer of £100 to be fair in the circumstances. 
For completeness, and balance, I would that there are several calls where Mrs D engages 
positively with the call-handler in a discussion about her finances and, at the end of the call, 
expresses her gratitude at the help shes received.
Difficulty in understanding different accents is very much an individual, subjective issue; 
what one person struggles to follow will present little or no obstacle to someone else. In much the same that I have no remit to order Barclays to conduct business face to face, I also 
cant instruct it on the ethnicity or regional distribution of the people it employs.
Mrs D has written openly and very eloquently about how events have affected her. Her 
honesty and frankness are commendable and have left me in doubt about how strongly she 
feels. Shes in a horrible and distressing situation; what I have to decide is whether Barclays, 
by either its actions or inactions, has treated her unfairly and made an already bad situation 
worse. Having considered everything that both parties have said and provided, other than 
the occasions Ive detailed above, Im not persuaded thats the case.
I do understand that Mrs D is in a difficult and upsetting situation. But within the parameters 
of the complaint Im looking at here, Barclays has made a reasonable settlement offer for its 
shortcomings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and make on order or award 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC. Ill leave it to Mrs D to decide whether, on further reflection, 
she wishes to accept the settlement offer Barclays has made. If she does, she can let our 
investigator know and he will make the necessary arrangements with Barclays. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman