DRN-4079222
The complaint
Mr C complained that his property was damaged through poor workmanship by QIC Europe 
Ltd (QIC) under his home emergency policy. QIC also provided Mr C with home insurance.
What happened
Mr Cs upstairs toilet was blocked, so Mr C made a claim under his home emergency policy. 
QIC sent a contractor to investigate, and he indicated hed fixed the problem. The upstairs 
toilet drained ok. Mr C said he later took a bath and used the upstairs toilet. Hed also 
switched on his washing machine.
When Mr C returned downstairs, he said he found his kitchen and hallway covered in water. 
The water overflowed out of the downstairs toilet from the waste pipe. The contractor 
returned but couldnt fix the problem. Mr C claims QICs contractor caused the leak which 
subsequently damaged his flooring in the hall and kitchen. He said the contractor didnt 
properly remove the blockage from the pipe and he didnt check the pipe was clear before he 
left. He claims the contractor moved the blockage to another part of the waste pipe, which 
fixed the problem with the upstairs toilet but caused a subsequent leak.
QIC didnt consider poor workmanship to be the issue and declined to cover the claim under 
Mr Cs buildings insurance. It considered the claim under the accidental damage and escape 
of water perils. However, after inspection by a drainage expert, QIC said the second leak 
was unrelated and caused by gradual deterioration of the waste pipe and poor workmanship 
when the pipe was initially installed.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought the damage was caused by 
QICs home emergency contractor not fulfilling his contractual duties with reasonable care. 
So, he thought QIC should put Mr C back to his pre-loss condition. He said QIC should pay 
the full cost to replace the hallway flooring plus 8% simple interest per annum, until the claim 
is settled and 50% of the cost to replace the kitchen flooring (due to its poor pre-loss 
condition). He also awarded £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 30 March 2023. I said:
Mr C thought the visit of QICs contractor under his home emergency policy led to the 
subsequent leak and damage to his property. QICs appointed contractor worked on behalf 
of QIC, so if the work is likely to have led to the issues Mr C experienced and the work 
wasnt to a reasonable standard, then Im likely to uphold the complaint.
QIC said the second blockage was an unrelated issue and due to gradual deterioration of 
the pipework. QICs drainage specialist has provided an opinion that supports this outcome. 
Whilst an expert opinion will normally carry some weight in my decision, in this case, I dont 
find the opinion provides a reasonable explanation of what happened.
Mr C said he hadnt experienced any issues with the downstairs toilet in 15 years living at 
the property, so doesnt see how it could be gradual deterioration. I dont have any reason to 
doubt this. I dont think the expert has provided any photographs that support his opinion that 
gradual deterioration or poor workmanship during the pipe installation caused this specific 
issue. I think this is a theory rather than a well evidenced explanation.
I think its too much of a coincidence that gradual deterioration could be the cause  it seems 
more likely that the work the home emergency contractor completed triggered the issue with 
the downstairs leak. Ive also considered that if it was gradual deterioration, that I dont think 
Mr C couldve been aware of such. I dont think he wouldve known maintenance was an 
issue. So, I think if it wasnt the home emergency contractors poor workmanship that caused 
the issue, then I think QIC shouldve dealt with the claim under the buildings insurance.
I agree with Mr Cs explanation. Its most likely the home emergency contractor fixed the 
problem with the upstairs toilet, but in doing so, he moved the blockage to another part of the 
pipework. The fact the second drainage expert was able to clear the blockage through 
forcing highly pressurised water through the pipe, suggests to me it wasnt caused by 
gradual deterioration. I think it was a reasonable expectation that the home emergency 
contractor shouldve ensured the pipework was properly cleared of all blockages. I havent 
seen evidence of tests that were done to show this was done. Therefore, I think its likely the 
work of the contractor did cause the subsequent issues, so I intend to uphold this complaint.
I have considered the damage that was caused as QIC will need return this to the pre-loss 
condition. QIC said the hallway floor was in a good pre-loss condition, but the kitchen was in 
poor condition. So, I have considered the damage and remedies to both separately.
The hallway is a solid parquet floor. Replacing it would be costly. I have viewed the 
photographs of the floor and it appears in fair condition. It was clearly laid many years ago. 
Mr C has confirmed it was laid in 1964. Therefore, I dont think its fair to expect QIC to 
replace a floor that is probably close to the end of its life with a new floor. I think its more 
appropriate for QIC to ensure the floor is thoroughly cleaned and sanitised. Once it has 
dried, I think QIC should sand and varnish the floor or QIC should pay a cash settlement for 
Mr C to arrange this for himself. I think this would be fair. I intend for QIC to do this.
In respect to the kitchen floor. I agree that the pre-loss condition is poor, however, I dont 
agree that all the damage observed was pre-loss. I think the way the edges of the laminate 
flooring have curled up is consistent with what one would expect with water damage. I 
recognise that not all the floor has been damaged. However, as QICs contractor caused the 
damage I dont think it would be fair to just replace the section that had been damaged  as 
the flooring wouldnt match. I also dont think it would be possible to repair the damage. So, I 
think the fairest solution is for QIC to replace the whole kitchen floor with a similar quality 
laminate flooring or provide a cash settlement to the equivalent value. I think this is fair. I 
intend QIC to do this.
I dont think QIC has handled this situation very well. I think it should have identified early 
that it was likely its contractor caused the subsequent issues. I dont think Mr C has been 
fairly treated. His floors have been contaminated with waste-water  this wouldve been 
unpleasant, and Mr C wouldve needed to try and clean this up himself as best he could. 
Hes lived with flooring missing in his kitchen. The flooring in his kitchen is damaged. I think 
this will have been frustrating for Mr C. So, Im intending to award £400 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. I think this reflects the difficulties hes faced. These awards will 
indemnify Mr C back to his pre-loss condition.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr C and QIC accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to change it.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd:
Clean and sanitise hallway flooring. Sand it and varnish it or provide equivalent cash 
settlement
Replace all kitchen flooring with similar quality laminate flooring or provide equivalent 
cash settlement
Pay £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman