DRN-4044740
The complaint
Mr D has complained about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) dealt with 
a claim under their home insurance policy.
Im aware Mr D is represented in this case but, for ease, I will only refer to Mr D.
What happened
Mr D made a claim following a water leak at his property. Admiral accepted the claim and 
carried out repairs. Mr D complained to Admiral because he was concerned about delays 
with progressing the claim, communication issues, that his door keys had been lost and 
defects with some flooring, along with the impact it was having on him.
When Admiral replied it agreed there had been some unnecessary delays and a lack of 
communication at times. It accepted that this and contractors needing to revisit to deal with 
the flooring caused Mr D inconvenience. However, it said it hadnt found evidence to show 
the keys had been lost. It offered a total of £315 for the impact on Mr D, which included the 
distress and inconvenience caused, the cost of phone calls and a goodwill gesture.
Mr D complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said Admiral had fairly 
responded to the issues raised and that it didnt need to do anything further.
As Mr D didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr D had several concerns about how his claim was being dealt with. Admiral accepted 
there had been some delays and that Mr D had to chase for responses at times. Admiral 
also acknowledged there were issues with the flooring that meant contractors had to carry 
out further work. Im aware Mr D also spent longer in alternative accommodation than he had 
expected. Looking at what happened, I think Admiral responded fairly to these issues. 
Mr D was also concerned that his keys were lost by the contractor. Ive seen that Mr D 
contacted Admiral to find out where his keys were. When Admiral replied to the complaint, it 
confirmed it hadnt found anything to show the keys had been lost, but said it would consider 
further evidence about this and about the locks being changed if Mr D provided this. I think 
Admirals response was reasonable in the circumstances.
Im aware Mr D wanted Admiral to be told to comply with standards to secure keys and 
alarm codes. The role of this service is to consider individual complaints, which I have done. 
Im not able to look at other customers circumstances or to require Admiral to review or 
change its business practices or policies. 
Im also aware Mr D wanted Admiral to cover some additional costs related to the trace and 
access work. However, based on what Ive seen, Admiral paid the costs that were part of the 
claim. I wouldnt expect an insurer to pay costs for which it wasnt responsible.
Mr D also didnt think the compensation offered by Admiral fairly reflected the impact on him. 
So, Ive thought about this. I wouldnt generally expect compensation to be an amount per 
day, but rather an amount to recognise the overall impact of the issues identified. Thinking 
about everything that happened, in my view, Admiral offered an appropriate amount of 
compensation based on what happened and it is line with what I would have said it should 
pay.
As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Admiral to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman