DRN-2326928
Complaint
Miss R has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Miss R bought the policy in August 2004 at the same time as applying for a credit card by 
postal application.
The policy cost 79p per £100 of Miss Rs outstanding monthly statement balance. And if she 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 10% of her balance 
for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Rs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss R originally said PPI was added to her account without her knowledge. She later said 
she would only have taken it if she thought it would help her get the card. And that she saw it 
on her statements, but thought it had to be paid. Capital One says Miss R completed the 
application form herself and chose to take it  its provided a copy of Miss Rs application 
form for me to consider. 
Looking at the application form, there is a section about PPI and two separate boxes to tick 
either yes or no for the policy. The yes box has been ticked and the no box has been left 
blank. Miss R has signed the application form, confirming that she agrees with the selections 
on it. So, I think Miss R would have known the PPI was optional when she selected it. The 
sale took place some 16 years ago, so its understandable Miss R may not remember now. 
But I think Miss R was aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to 
take it at the time. 
Capital One says it would not have given Miss R any advice and Miss R says she cant 
remember. So, Ive considered the complaint on the basis that advice wasnt given, because 
Miss R completed and returned a postal application herself and I havent seen anything to 
suggest Miss R spoke to Capital One about it. That means Capital One didnt have to check 
the policy was right for Miss R. But it did need to give her enough information about the PPI, 
so she could decide whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Miss R doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions. And based on what I 
know about her circumstances, it looks like the policy could have been useful to her, so I 
dont think better information would have stopped her buying it. I also havent seen anything 
to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Miss R at the time of sale.
Miss R says she was entitled to some sick pay from her employer and had some savings 
she could have used to make her repayments  she hasnt been able to confirm precisely 
how much. She also says her family could have helped her if she needed them to.
 
The policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Miss R received and based on 
what shes said, I think it would likely have paid out for longer. Miss R could also have made 
repeat claims, subject to a requalification period. And the policy would have enabled Miss R 
to use her savings for any other financial commitments she may have had at what could be a 
difficult time. So, I think the PPI could have been useful to her if she fell on hard times.
I have considered Miss Rs comments that she lived at home with her parents, so she had 
no bills at the time, and they would have helped her to cover her credit card repayments. But 
I dont think this means the policy would not have been useful for her. While her family may 
have wanted to help, their circumstances could change which means their help could not 
always be relied on.
So, based on everything Ive said above, I dont think better information would have changed 
Miss Rs decision to take the policy. As a result, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Which 
means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss R.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss R because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss R about that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
Miss R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss R. 
Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Miss R any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman