DRN-3974110
Complaint
Mr S complains that Allium Money Limited (Allium), has rejected the claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he 
says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around September 2019, Mr S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr S decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Allium. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ss behalf under section 75 of the Act to Allium. The 
CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system that had turned 
out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr S to enter into 
the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
Over the lifetime of the scheme, the panels would make considerable amounts of 
money
The system would pay for itself 
P failed to carry out a credit assessment 
When referring the complaint to this service, the CMC further added that Mr S was 
told the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income 
to cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Allium didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr S or that there were any other 
reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons: 
 
The CMC says that Mr S was not taken through the sales document relied on by our 
investigator. If he had been taken through the quote, he wouldnt have purchased the 
system as it was not an attractive investment given the timescales involved before 
the system would break even. 
The CMC added we had not taken into consideration the verbal representation made 
by Ps agent that induced Mr S into the purchase. 
The CMC referred to a court case which it says had similar circumstances to Mr S 
and this was upheld in the consumers favour  but it was for a different consumer 
against a different provider. 
The CMC has also pointed out that many consumers have raised complaints over the 
selling of solar panels, and many have been previously upheld in favour of 
consumers. 
A regulatory body had previously found against P. 
Finally, the CMC sent in copies of general sales literature and training guides that 
suggest P was promoting the systems as self-funding. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
As Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Allium agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Allium, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have claimed 
against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in 
the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Allium.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr S says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would pay for itself.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Allium. These 
include the credit agreement and solar quote. Ive considered these, along with the 
consumers testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is 
most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P has told this service 
that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the system, prior to the 
consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
I would add that Ive considered carefully the comments made by the CMC regarding the 
outcomes of other cases, general literature and its concerns over action taken by other 
regulatory bodies. But each case brought to our service is assessed on the individual merits 
of that case. And Im satisfied that the documentary evidence in relation to Mr Ss specific 
sale (which he has signed) is a more reliable record of the information he was given at the 
time of sale. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mr S was told that the cost of the system was £13,318. The quote sets this 
out clearly as well as the credit agreement.  The total amount of credit is £13,218 (after 
deducting a deposit of £100) and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£24,915.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £138.03. But I note 
Mr Ss monthly payment is marginally different at £137.87  but I dont think this difference 
makes the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
he was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. And Im satisfied that the two 
documents, the quote and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the 
system was £13,318 , it would cost Mr S more than this as he had decided to pay for it with 
an interest bearing loan. 
Mr S has said that he believed the system would pay for itself and that it would make 
considerable amounts of money. The CMC added that he was told his monthly loan 
repayments would be covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy 
bills. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as the consumers 
recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have 
been said. 
Mr S bought his system in September 2019, but the FIT scheme closed to new applications 
in April 2019. The sales documents also make no mention of receiving a FIT income. Had 
Mr S been led to believe he would receive income from the FIT scheme, I would have 
expected that to have been set out in the sales quote  with a breakdown of what he would 
likely receive. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mr S was led to believe he would 
receive any FIT income at all. 
Theres a section headed All of our payment options with several tables showing 
repayments over various different loan terms. Ive focused on the table for 180 months since 
this is the length of the loan that Mr S entered into with Allium. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £138.03. For each year of the 15  year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £138.03 to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the return Mr S could expect to receive from the system, by 
way of savings on energy bills, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
And It does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way of 
savings, would not be sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments throughout the term of 
the loan. 
Ive carefully thought about the Mr Ss version of events. However, as Ive found that the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings or the savings alone.
That said, I do accept that Mr S was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The What will you earn and save per year? page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 30 years. This shows that by year 22 the overall benefits that Mr S could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the cash price of the system, and by year 30, the 
total amount payable under the loan agreement including the finance charges. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr S that the system would pay for itself by 
year 30, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why he hasnt been 
receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since 
actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved 
through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr S couldve expected to receive 
from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as 
estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr S entered into the contract.
I would add that Allium has set out how it assessed Mr Ss financial circumstances before 
granting the loan, and I havent seen any evidence that it wasnt affordable. So this point 
doesnt alter my view of the complaint. 
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Allium has confirmed that it 
paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation and Im 
of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a court is 
unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under section 140.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr S to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
So overall, Im satisfied that Allium did not act unreasonably or unfairly when declining the 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman