DRN-3051565
The complaint
Mrs K (by way of a representative) complains Short Term Finance Limited (STF) lent to her 
irresponsibly because it didnt carry out proper affordability checks. 
What happened
Mrs K was given 13 home collected loans between February 2017 and March 2019. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about the loans in the table below. 
loan number loan amount agreement date repayment date
1 £100.00 15/02/2017 10/05/2017
2 £150.00 10/05/2017 03/08/2017
3 £200.00 03/08/2017 09/11/2017
4 £150.00 21/09/2017 22/03/2018
5 £300.00 09/11/2017 29/03/2018
6 £200.00 29/03/2018 05/07/2018
7 £150.00 29/03/2018 23/08/2018
8 £200.00 05/07/2018 11/10/2018
9 £200.00 23/08/2018 13/12/2018
10 £250.00 11/10/2018 13/12/2018
11 £350.00 13/12/2018 05/03/2019
12 £200.00 13/12/2018 26/09/2019
13 £400.00 05/03/2019 live / written off
In its final response letter STF told Mrs K that the balance on loan 13 had been written off 
following a repayment plan that failed. However, STF also provided this service with a loan 
spreadsheet which shows loan 13 as live. So, it isnt clear whether this loan has or has not 
been written off. 
The adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She didnt think STF had made an error when loan 
1 was granted. She also thought that for loans 2  5 STF needed to have carried out further 
checks into Mrs Ks circumstances. But due to a lack of information, the adjudicator couldnt 
say that STF had made an error when it approved loans 1  5. 
However, she concluded that by loan 6 STF ought to have realised the pattern of lending 
was harmful to Mrs K. So, loans 6 - 13 shouldnt have given. 
Mrs K appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings. 
STF disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In response, STF said;
STF doesnt believe it made an error in the way it dealt with Mrs K; 
It says it adhered to all the requirements as laid out by the regulations and
It didnt have the technology at the time to be able to accept and keep copies of bank 
statements, wage slips and bills. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mrs K (or her representative) doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings 
about loans 1  5. So, I think there is no longer a dispute about these loans. And like the 
adjudicator, I would also agree, based on what Ive seen, that there isnt enough to be able 
to uphold the complaint about those loans.  So instead, this decision will focus on whether 
STF did anything wrong when it lent loans 6 to 13.  
STF needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs K could
repay her loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest STF should have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for Mrs K. These factors include: 
Mrs K having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mrs K having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs K coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs K. The loan payments being 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
At the time these loans were lent, STF was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
The FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) explained that payments are sustainable 
if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender 
realised, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable. Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mrs Ks complaint.
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 6 - 13 were proportionate 
and Ill explain why below. STF has provided this service with the copies of the application 
forms it completed with Mrs K. It seems that it asked about her living arrangements, income 
and expenditure. And for some of the loans proof of income was seen (and noted) and for 
other loans it says that it saw bank statements (or sight of Mrs Ks online bank statements). I 
dont know what these statements showed STF or how closely it looked at the statements. 
But as Ive explained above, the loan being pound and pence affordable is only part of the 
consideration. So, I havent felt he need to recreate individual, proportionate affordability 
checks for these loans because I didnt consider it necessary to do so. 
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Mrs K, STF also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during 
the course of its lending relationship with Mrs K. 
Having looked at the overall pattern of STFs lending history with Mrs K, I agree with our 
adjudicator that STF should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 6. I say this because;
At this point STF ought to have realised Mrs K was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Mrs K had taken out 6 loans in just over a year and she had been 
indebted to STF for the entire time and some of these loans overlapped, for example 
loans 4 and 5.  So STF ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs K was 
having to borrow further to cover an ongoing need and that Mrs Ks indebtedness 
was increasing unsustainably and  that her underlying financial situation didnt seem 
to be improving. 
By loan 6 and over a year into the lending relationship, Mrs Ks weekly repayments 
wouldve increased significantly. She started with a loan for £100 and loan 6 was one 
of the largest to date at £200. But with loan 7 being opened on the same day as loan 
6, Mrs K in fact had to make payments towards borrowing of £350. This also 
suggests, that Mrs Ks indebtedness was increasing unsustainably, and she was 
likely needing further borrowing to cover ongoing living costs, rather than as a means 
to cover one-off purchases, for example. 
Mrs K took some loans on the same day as previous loans were repaid, for example, 
loans 2, 3 and 5. STF ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs K, on 
these occasions, was having to borrow further to effectively cover a long-term 
financial need. To me, this is indicative of her indebtedness not being sustainable;
Mrs K wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed STF. Loan 13 was 
taken out just over two years after Mrs Ks first loan. And it was for four times the 
amount. Mrs K had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to STF 
over an extended period.
I think that Mrs K lost out when STF provided loans 6 - 13 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ks indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the sheer number of loans and the time in debt was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mrs Ks ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 - 13 and Ill go on to set out
what STF should do to put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress STF should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs K from loan 6 as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are several possibilities, and all hypothetical answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs K may have simply left matters there 
and not tried to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and STF which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, 
she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even 
possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs K in a compliant 
way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mrs K would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce STFs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
STF shouldnt have given Mrs K loans 6  13;
a) STF should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs K towards interest, 
fees and charges on loans 5  12. 
b) STF should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs K 
which were considered as part of a), calculated from the date Mrs K originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
c) STF should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans (loan 13), and treat any repayments made by Mrs K as though it 
had been repayments of the principal on loan 13. If this results in Mrs K having made 
overpayments then STF should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, 
to the date the complaint is settled. 
d) If there is still an outstanding balance due then the amounts calculated in a) and 
b) can be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mrs K. If an outstanding balance still 
remains, STF shouldnt purse repayment of loan 13 as it has written it off. 
e) The overall pattern of Mrs Ks borrowing about loan 6 - 13 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from 
Mrs Ks credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires STF to deduct tax from this interest. STF should
give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax STF has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint in part.
Short Term Finance Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman