DRN-2879791
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the actions of One Sure Insurance Limited which he said led to 
his motorhome not being covered by his motor trade insurance policy.   
What happened
One Sure arranged a motor trade policy for Mr P. It asked him to send it some documents to 
validate his policy. It said it didn't receive those so it cancelled it. Mr P contacted One Sure 
soon after. He said hed sent it the information it needed. One Sure then realised that Mr P 
had sent the information from a different email address and hadn't added his One Sure 
reference number. So it hadn't realised that Mr Ps emails should be attached to his account. 
Mr P asked One Sure to reinstate the policy. One Sure told him that as it was a Saturday, it 
couldn't contact the policy underwriter and reinstate the policy. It offered to find him another 
policy, and its sales team left Mr P a voicemail in order to sort that out. But Mr P didn't 
contact One Sure about taking out another policy. 
Police stopped Mr P for driving while his motorhome was uninsured. They impounded the 
vehicle and it was eventually disposed of.
Mr P brought his complaint about One Sure to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He 
didn't think One Sure had dealt with Mr P fairly. So he said it should remove the record of the 
enforced cancellation and pay him £250 compensation. 
One Sure didn't agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint so it's been 
passed to me to decide. While Ive been considering it we asked Mr P for some more 
information but he didn't reply. So Ive reached my findings based on the evidence we 
already held.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
I've seen that One Sure initially asked Mr P to provide some information on 7 July 2020. It 
sent him a reminder about that on 17 July. It then sent him another letter chasing 
outstanding information on 21 July. It said that if Mr P didn't provide the required information 
within seven days, it would cancel the policy. Each of One Sures letters reminded Mr P that 
he needed to add his reference number to his correspondence.
On 23 and 25 July 2020 Mr P emailed One Sure the outstanding information. He gave the 
emails subject headings that made it clear he was providing the requested information. But 
he didn't add his reference number to them. And he sent those from an email address that 
wasn't linked to his One Sure account. So One Sure didn't immediately identify which 
account the emails were linked to. And, on 29 July 2020, it cancelled Mr Ps policy because 
it thought it hadn't received the outstanding information from him. 
Mr P rang One Sure soon after. He explained that hed already sent One Sure the 
outstanding information. And, at that point One Sure found his emails. Mr P explained that 
he hadn't been able to access his previous email address so had used a different one. 
One Sure told him that as the policy had already been cancelled it couldn't reinstate it. It did 
offer to have its sales team set up a new policy for him, but Mr P didn't complete that 
process. 
I've thought very carefully about whether or not it was reasonable for One Sure to cancel 
Mr Ps policy in these circumstances. I've seen that One Sures correspondence clearly 
highlighted that Mr P needed to add his reference number when corresponding with it. But 
he didn't do that. And matters were further complicated because he used an email address 
he hadn't used before. So I can understand that Mr Ps method of sending One Sure the 
additional information it needed made things more difficult than they needed to be. But I 
don't think that was a fair reason for One Sure to cancel Mr Ps policy.
One Sure had asked Mr P to provide it with some information. And, while he didn't do that 
straightaway, he did send it to One Sure before the date specified and before it had 
cancelled his policy. So, at the date it cancelled his policy One Sure had already received 
the essential information it needed. I can understand why it didn't realise that was the case, 
because the reference number was missing and One Sure didn't recognise the email 
address. But the information Mr P provided included his driving licence. That shows his full 
name, date of birth and address. And all those things are information held on Mr P's 
One Sure account and on his policy documents. So a brief look at the email could have very 
easily identified which account and policy the information related to.
One Sures said that if it had seen the email then it wouldn't have accepted it anyway 
because it didn't recognise the email address. However, Mr P had sent it a photo of his 
drivers licence, which I think verified the identity of the sender. And, in his email, he also 
referred to two registration numbers hed previously been in touch with One Sure about in 
connection with the policy. So I think One Sure could have been confident about who the 
sender was. 
But - even if that wasn't the case - I think it would have been reasonable for One Sure to 
contact Mr P and say that it had received information that appeared to apply to him, but from 
an address it didn't recognise. It could have asked Mr P some data protection questions to 
be sure the email came from him. I think that, given the potential implications of a policy 
cancellation, which can affect a consumers ability to source policies and their premiums in 
the future  that would have been a fair and reasonable thing to do. But One Sure didn't do 
that as it says it can take up to ten days to respond to an email it doesnt recognise. I wasnt 
persuaded by that argument.
Further, after One Sure cancelled the policy Mr P rang it and it realised he had provided the 
information it required before it cancelled the policy. So I think One Sure should have 
identified at the time that it had cancelled the policy unfairly and taken action to reinstate it. I 
understand that it would be the underwriters decision, and not One Sures about whether to 
reinstate the policy. But I think, in the circumstances of this case, One Sure could have told 
Mr P that it would tell the underwriter it had sent the cancellation in error and would ask it to 
reinstate the policy. I accept that One Sure couldn't have guaranteed that the underwriters 
would agree to that, but I think it would have been a reasonable step for it to take. However it 
didn't do so. So I don't think it handled the matter fairly.
I understand that police impounded Mr Ps motorhome because he was driving it while it was 
uninsured. And the vehicle was later disposed of. But I don't think it would be fair to blame that event and any associated costs on One Sure. Mr P was clearly aware that the policy 
had been cancelled. And he didn't complete the process to put another in place. So, he 
knew that he wasn't covered to drive. It follows that I don't think it was One Sures fault if 
Mr P was stopped for driving while uninsured because of the cancellation.
That said, as I think One Sure cancelled the policy unfairly and it can't be reinstated now, I 
think it should record the cancellation on any internal and external databases as if it was 
cancelled by Mr P. It should also notify the policy underwriter that the cancellation was in 
error. And it should write to Mr P to confirm that its done so. Further, as the matter has 
clearly been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr P, it should pay him £250 
compensation. 
For completeness Mr P told us that One Sure hadn't ever provided a refund of his premium. 
But One Sure's shown us evidence that it sent him a cheque on 6 October 2020 for that 
refund. If Mr P believes he didn't receive this he needs to contact One Sure directly.    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require One Sure Insurance Limited 
to:
Record the policy cancellation on any internal and external databases as if it was 
cancelled by Mr P. It should notify the policy underwriter that the cancellation was in 
error. And it should write to Mr P to confirm that its done so.
Pay Mr P £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman