DRN-3566603
The complaint
Ms P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund payments she says she 
didnt make using her credit card.
What happened
Ms P disputes four payments using her credit card and made to a money transfer service 
and which totalled £1,489.51. She says she didnt make them or allow anyone else to. And 
that payments on her accounts with two different financial businesses she disputed have 
been refunded.
NatWest said it wouldnt be refunding the money because it considered that Ms P had 
authorised these payments. These were made using the device and the same IP address 
that had been used to access her online banking. These payments would have been 
authenticated with either the app or a one-time passcode.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. The first disputed payment 
took place on 27 January 2022, the next on 28 January 2022 and the other two on 3 
February 2022. Ms P had said that she didnt have security set on her phone at the time and 
that it was left in a locker when she was at work. But Ms P had reported that she was 
isolating at home from 1 February 2022. NatWest had provided evidence to show that the 
limit on her credit card account was increased online at 11:24 on 27 January 2022 which 
was after the payment that day. There had also been payments made from her current 
account to her credit card account on 27 January and 28 January 2022. And a payment of 
£94.66 had been made in the early hours of 27 January 2022 with her credit card that Ms P 
hadnt disputed. 
NatWest had also provided evidence about the device used and the IP address for the 
disputed payments. This matched those used to access online banking apart from the IP 
address for one of the payments on 3 February 2022. She said that if the payments hadnt 
been authorised then someone would have needed to have free access to Ms Ps phone 
and card details and also be able to log in to online banking. And this would have included 
the period when Ms P said she was in isolation.
Ms P didnt agree. She stressed her financial issues and that she was supporting her family. 
She thought that the outcome was unfair. She didnt even know shed been charged here, 
and she had been refunded by the other businesses. And she wanted to know whether we 
thought someone else had access to all her accounts and details.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated. Where credit is involved, as is the case here on credit 
cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it states that a consumer wouldnt be 
liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to someone else having access to 
the card/ account.  
Im satisfied that these payments were authenticated. And they seemed to have been made 
through an account set up with the money transfer service. Ms P provided a list of the 
payments with the tracking numbers as part of her evidence to this service. And NatWest 
has provided its authorisation logs for the payments from the credit card account.
Ms P doesnt seem to dispute that these were made as NatWest has shown using her 
device. And that this mostly involved the same IP address shed been using too. This is 
supported by the information NatWest has provided. Our investigator has set out some of 
the other payments at around that time. I want to say a bit more about them.
On 27 January 2022 £600 that had been credited to Ms Ps current account that day was 
used to make payments into her credit card account. And a further £250 received into her 
current account on 28 January 2022 was used to make a payment to her credit card on that 
day. As our investigator says the limit on the card account was increased on 27 January 
2022 and this was from £1,500 to £2,000. And although her full credit limit was taken up by 
the disputed payments this didnt conclude until 3 February 2022. Ms P said she noticed 
what had happened on 4 February 2022 reporting it to NatWest in the early hours of that 
morning and also sending an email to this service.
Ms P has provided an explanation of how an unknown third-party fraudster might have been 
able to access her unsecured phone without her knowledge while at work. That still relied on 
that person been able to open a physical lock on the locker without detection. But there is no 
such explanation during the period when she was self-isolating at home. And that fraudster 
would have had to be able to access her online banking and app. The credits to her current 
account were quickly transferred across. And someone would need to have been able to 
apply for an increase in the credit limit. Such a fraudster would have risked detection and 
didnt take as much money as quickly as possible. The part of her limit used to fund the 
payments on 3 February 2022 had been available for a number of days. Ms P hasnt put 
forward any explanation of how someone she knew could have made the payments without 
her knowing. And if shed allowed that person to have that sort of access then Im afraid 
shed have been responsible for what that person did.
I understand the impact of what happened for Ms P. Im looking at what happened with the 
payments at NatWest and not why as she says other financial businesses refunded money 
to her. I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most 
likely. Having balanced all the factors here I consider that Ms P most likely authorised these 
payments and this could have involved allowing someone else to use her card details and 
device. So, I find it reasonable for NatWest to hold her responsible for these payments. I 
appreciate how disappointed she will be by this outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman