DRN-1592725
 
The complaint
Mr C says MYJAR Limited, trading as MYJAR (MYJAR), irresponsibly lent to him. Mr C 
says if MYJAR had carried out proper checks it would have seen he had a poor credit history 
including a poor credit score, defaults, CCJs and was using other short-term credit providers 
as well as door-stop lending. 
What happened
This complaint is about one short-term loan MYJAR provided to Mr C in March 2012. Mr C 
borrowed £300 which he was to repay one month later. It was eventually repaid in May 
2016.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint and thought that taking into account Mr Cs 
known circumstances at the time the loan was given, there wasnt anything to suggest that 
he wasnt able to sustainably make the repayments. 
Mr C disagreed and as the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me to 
decide in my role as ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice  on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a borrowing 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered the arguments, evidence and information in this context and what 
this all means for Mr Cs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the complaint and Ill 
explain why.
MYJAR has told us about the checks it carried out before approving the borrowing. On the 
loan application it asked Mr C about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of £2,000. MYJAR also checked Mr Cs normal 
monthly living costs. Mr C said his housing costs of £300 and he had no other creditors.
MYJAR says it looked at public databases, carried out fraud checks and used its own credit 
scoring before lending to Mr C. It says it cross-referenced and validated the data it received 
from these sources together with the information Mr C provided. I think it was reasonable for 
MYJAR to have relied on this information bearing in mind this was the first loan that Mr C 
had taken from MYJAR and his stated monthly commitment wasnt onerous. So, in these 
circumstances it wasnt irresponsible of MYJAR to lend to him.
Its possible that Mr Cs financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information he provided, or the other information MYJAR obtained such as the result of its 
checks. And Mr Cs actual financial position may well have been apparent if further 
information  such as bank statements or more in-depth credit checks  had been obtained. 
But MYJAR could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
In these circumstances  at the beginning of a lending relationship  I dont think MYJAR 
needed to take further steps to verify the information provided. This could have included 
asking Mr C for evidence of his income and outgoings which MYJAR could have gathered 
from his bank statement or copies of any bills as examples. 
I have considered the information MYJAR was provided with when it carried out its checks. 
And there isnt anything in this information it has given us that may have led MYJAR to 
conclude that it should decline Mr Cs application for this loan. And there isnt anything to 
have given MYJAR cause for concern (at the proportionate level it considered them, bearing 
in mind this was the first loan Mr C applied for with MYJAR) or to have prompted it to ask for 
more information from Mr C. 
I know Mr C disagrees with this. He has provided his bank statements, but these are not 
from the time the loan was taken so theres nothing further for me to consider. So, I dont 
think MYJAR was wrong to have provided this loan, based solely on the information it 
gathered from its checks and the information Mr C gave about his financial situation. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment MYJAR did for this loan was 
proportionate. And I dont think its decision to lend to Mr C was unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Catherine LangleyOmbudsman