DRN-3502797
The complaint
Mr M has complained that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited trading as DAS
acted unfairly when it declined a claim he made under his legal expenses insurance policy.
For the sake of clarity when I mention DAS I mean the underwriter or any agents working
on its behalf.
Background
Mr M has legal expenses insurance cover through his home insurance policy with DAS. He
contacted DAS in March 2021 to make a claim under his policy. He explained to DAS that he
had invested in five casks of whisky through a whisky distillery Ill call S but had never
received proof of ownership of the casks. So he wanted to make a claim under his policy as 
it provides cover for disputes about goods and services.
DAS considered Mr Ms claim but declined it on the basis that the policy doesnt provide
cover for investment disputes. It says the wording of the policy is clear on this point and that
all of the information on S website clearly indicates Mr M was investing in the five whisky
casks and wouldnt receive direct ownership of them for at least ten years. Therefore, it
argued the policy didnt provide cover for Mr M in his dispute with S.
Mr M disagreed with DAS interpretation of the policy wording and said that he would own
the physical goods at the point of purchase and that he intended on using the whisky, once it
had fully matured, for personal reasons primarily. He did concede that he may sell some
surplus supplies once the whisky had been bottled, but insisted the dispute shouldnt be
excluded under the terms and conditions of the policy. He explained that he wasnt treating
the whisky as an investment, but rather a personal purchase, and ultimately his claim was
about S failure to deliver ownership of the goods and the policy provided cover for that.
DAS continued to view Mr Ms case as one based on a failed investment and refused to
provide cover for his claim under the policy and so Mr M brought his complaint to us to
consider.
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ms case on 18 May 2022. In it I said that although the 
policy wording did exclude claims relating to investments, the intention behind the exclusion 
was to protect DAS from claims relating to investments which failed to provide expected 
returns. As Mr Ms claim was actually about S failing to provide ownership of the goods he 
had invested in, I felt a strict application of the exclusion was unfair. As such I thought DAS 
should reconsider Mr Ms claim without applying the exclusion to it. 
DAS responded to the provisional decision repeating that Mr M had invested in the whisky, 
and investments were excluded under the policys terms and conditions. So, it believed it 
was entitled to decline the claim. 
Mr M responded to the provisional decision agreeing with the outcome I reached and asking 
if DAS could also be required to appoint his preferred solicitors and reimburse any legal fees 
he has accrued to date as well as any future costs linked to his claim. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As DAS has raised no new arguments regarding why the claim should be excluded under 
the policys terms and conditions, I find no reason to change my original findings. I will repeat 
them here for the sake of clarity.
In order to make a finding on whether or not DAS has applied the exclusion regarding
investments fairly to Mr Ms claim it is necessary to both set out what the exclusion says and
what risk it was intended to mitigate against.
The policy sets out that claims involving investments are excluded in the section relating to
contract disputes. It says the following:
We will not pay for any claim relating to:
A dispute arising from a loan, mortgage, pension, investment or borrowing...
Looking at the information from S website it is clear that the company advertised to potential
clients by stating it was providing an investment opportunity for consumers to invest in its
whisky. In fact, the word invest is mentioned numerous times throughout the website, at
one point it even compares the limited risk in this sort of investment (i.e. whisky investment)
over more traditional forms of investment such as stocks and shares.
Mr M has repeatedly said his intention was to use the whisky for personal use. Hes said
there were a number of family occasions he envisioned using the whisky for, and that while
he may have sold some of the whisky to cover the bottling costs, he was ultimately buying it
for personal use and that it wasnt an investment in the traditional sense. He also noted that
the exclusion wording placed investment within a list of various sorts of financial
enterprises, which he said were clearly very different in nature from what he was doing with
S; buying five casks of whisky which he would take physical ownership of.
DAS responded by saying S website was very clear that this was an investment opportunity
and that investments werent covered under the policys terms and conditions. It also
disputed that Mr M would take physical ownership of the whisky, noting it would stay in situ
with the whisky distillery until it was ready to be bottled.
In order to understand the purpose of the above exclusion I asked DAS to clarify what risk
the investment exclusion was trying to mitigate against. It responded by saying the purpose
of the exclusion was to prevent claims relating to projected returns on investment products.
This was because, by their nature, a lot of investments are inherently risky and there could
be a high chance of any linked legal actions failing.
This makes sense to me and I dont think DAS was being unreasonable when it set out the
exclusion to protect itself and its policy holders in regard to claims of that nature.
However, Mr Ms claim isnt about the failure of the whisky to produce the expected
investment return. Rather it is about S failure to deliver proof of ownership of the five casks
of whisky that he paid for.
Looking at what is covered under contract disputes I note the policy says it will provide cover
for:A contractual dispute arising from an agreement or an alleged agreement which you
have entered into in a personal capacity for:
Buying or hiring goods or services
In this instance Mr M was buying five casks of whisky, albeit as a type of investment, and he
didnt receive proof of ownership of the goods as expected. I dont think its relevant that he
didnt expect to use the whisky for 10 years or that when he did, he was hoping to sell some
of it and make a profit at that point.
Instead what is relevant is that Mr Ms claim is about the fact he paid for five casks of whisky
and never received proof that he owned them.
Mr M has also confirmed that the case he and his solicitors intend on bringing against S is
for breach of contract and non-delivery of goods and is not based on anything to do with the
expected returns or potential resale value of the whisky.
Therefore, while I accept that a strict application of the policys wording regarding excluding
investments could be applied here (it does seem as though the whisky was purchased with
at least some sort of time dependent investment in mind), it feels inherently unfair to do so.
The actual reason Mr M is bringing a case against S is because he paid for goods he didnt
receive and not because the sale of those goods failed to provide the expected return.
So, for that reason DAS should reconsider Mr Ms claim without applying the investment 
exclusion to it.
Mr M has asked that DAS allow him to continue using his preferred solicitor and that it cover 
the legal costs he has paid to date as well as any future legal costs that may arise from this 
matter. 
It is important that I clarify that my directions to DAS are that it reconsiders Mr Ms claim 
without applying the investment exclusion to it. That doesnt automatically mean the claim 
will be accepted by DAS. There are a number of stages it must go through first, including 
DAS checking to ensure no other exclusions apply and also that it has reasonable prospects 
of success if it is brought forward. 
Assuming the claim is accepted by DAS after these additional checks are run Mr M will then 
be able to speak to it about his legal representation. I note that his policy does allow for him 
to use a solicitor of his own choosing but there are caveats around this, and he should refer 
to his policy document to better understand what these are. 
For these reasons I am unable to direct DAS as Mr M has asked me to. 
Putting things right
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited trading as DAS should reconsider Mr Ms 
claim without applying the investment exclusion to it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Ms claim against DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited  trading as DASUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman