DRN-2873034
The complaint
Mr S complains about how DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited handled his 
claim on his home emergency insurance policy.
Throughout this complaint Mr S has been represented by Ms M. However for ease of 
reading all references to Mr S include the actions of Ms M. 
 
What happened
Mr S had home emergency insurance that was underwritten by DAS to cover a property he 
owns and rents out. In January 2021 he made a claim after water ingress from the roof was 
discovered. 
After initially saying Mr S wasnt covered, DAS then accepted the claim and sent out a 
contractor to inspect the damage. The contractor said a temporary repair would cost £690 
and the policy limit was £500, so DAS said Mr S would need to pay the additional £190 
above the limit. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair, he said he didnt think the repair would cost that much and 
thought DAS should instead pay him the £500 policy limit so he can put that towards a 
permanent repair, rather than carrying out a temporary repair. He made a complaint. 
DAS didnt uphold his complaint. It said the policy is for emergency repairs, so it provides a 
temporary repair to fix the problem before a permanent repair is carried out  unless 
permanent repair costs less than a temporary one. It said it doesnt offer cash in lieu of 
repairs under the policy.
Mr S didnt agree this was fair and brought his complaint to this service. He said the provider 
of his building warranty had inspected the problem and said it was due to cables from the 
solar panels on the roof being stretched and disturbing the roof underlay. He said that this 
problem is different to what DAS said needed to be fixed. He also said it could be fixed 
without the need for scaffolding, and this made up the bulk of the quote its contractors had 
provided. So he thought this was unreasonable. 
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said the policy only provides for a temporary repair, so it wouldnt be fair to ask DAS to 
pay towards the cost of a permanent repair. Further, she said that she had put Mr S 
comments to Das and it had confirmed that issues caused by faulty design wouldnt be 
covered under the policy at all, so the report from the warranty provider didnt change its 
decision. And our investigator thought this was fair.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has claimed on his home emergency policy. It states as follows:
DAS will arrange and pay for a contractor to take action to resolve the emergency. The 
action taken will depend on what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances and will 
be either to:
Carry out a temporary repair (or a permanent repair if that is no more expensive)
So the purpose of the policy is to provide a fix for a problem in an emergency, before more 
permanent repairs are carried out.
Ive considered DAS actions to decide if it has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with 
this policy cover.
When DAS contractor attended to inspect the problem, it concluded that a temporary fix 
would cost £690. As this was above the policy limit of £500 this means the policy wouldnt 
cover the full amount. In situations like this it is usual that the insured will have to pay 
anything additional over the limit. So it was reasonable for DAS to require Mr S to pay the 
additional amount for the repair to go ahead.
Mr S has said that he doesnt think the amount quoted was fair. He says the fix would be 
possible without scaffolding, which made up most of the cost of the repair. 
Ive considered this but I dont think DAS quote was unreasonable. The damage is above 
and around the solar panels on the roof of the property. So I can understand why the 
contractors thought there would be a need for scaffolding in order to achieve the fix. So I 
dont think it was unreasonable to quote for this. 
Mr S has provided confirmation from the contractor he has now instructed to permanently fix 
the problem. I can see the fix is taking place from inside the loft, without the need for 
scaffolding. So I appreciate why he has concerns about DAS quote. However when DAS 
went to inspect the problem, it was only to provide a solution for a temporary fix. And not to 
conduct a thorough investigation into the cause of the damage and a permanent repair. And 
considering the location of the damage, I dont think it was unreasonable for the contractors 
to conclude that scaffolding would be necessary to achieve this at the time of their visit. 
Mr S has also said he thinks DAS should provide cash up to the policy limit, that he could 
use towards a permanent fix, instead of the temporary fix it offered. The policy is in place to 
offer a temporary solution to resolve a problem before a permanent fix is carried out. And it 
doesnt offer the option of a cash settlement in lieu of repairs. So I dont think DAS has acted 
unfairly by refusing to pay towards a permanent fix, as this isnt the purpose of a home 
emergency policy, nor is this covered under the policy terms. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that DAS has acted fairly and reasonably when handling 
Mr S claim. So I wont ask it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman