DRN-3253946
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that they were mis-sold a Select Silver Account (SSA) by The Royal 
Bank of Scotland (RBS) in February 2017.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
For clarity, Mr and Mrs B have complained about the sale of several other accounts but 
another ombudsman has issued a decision that they cannot be looked at by this service, so 
this decision is only about the SSA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B say that they only took out the SSA because they were told they had to if they 
wanted a large overdraft. And they say the SSA was unsuitable for them.
RBS says it provided all the relevant information about the SSA, and Mr and Mrs B chose to 
take it out.
I wasnt present in the conversation that took place during the sale in the branch in 2017 so I 
can only base my decision on the evidence available to me today.
By the time of the sale of the SSA, Mr and Mrs B had held several packaged bank accounts 
for many years and had used some of the benefits. So, in my view its more likely than not 
that they were very familiar with the fact that with packaged bank accounts a monthly fee 
was paid for a range of benefits laid out in the communications pack sent and updated by 
RBS.
RBS has provided evidence that Mr and Mrs B had previously taken out a very large 
overdraft on a fee free account several years before this sale. So, I think its more likely than 
not that they knew they didnt have to take out an SSA to get a large overdraft.
RBS has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs application for the SSA where Mr B has signed 
to say he is aware of RBSs range of accounts and has received the information about the 
SSA and is choosing to take it out.
So, in my view, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B knew they had a choice 
whether to take out the SSA and they chose to do so.
Ive not seen any evidence such as an assessment of Mr and Mrs B s needs to suggest this 
was an advised sale and the application form indicates to me that it probably wasnt.
So, I think its more likely than not this was an information only sale, and so RBS was only 
required to provide Mr and Mrs B with enough information to make an informed decision.
And I think it did. I say this because Mr and Mrs B signed the application form to say theyd 
received the information pack. Mr and Mrs B previously had packaged bank accounts, so I 
think they knew what information they were looking for. And they went on to use some of the 
benefits.
I see that Mr and Mrs B raised issues about how the travel insurance worked when medical 
issues arose later, but these do not affect the way I would see the sale. I also see that Mr 
and Mrs B didnt agree with the outcome of a claim made on the mobile phone insurance, 
but this would need to be taken up with the insurer rather than RBS.
So, I think its more likely than not that RBS didnt do anything wrong in the sale of the SSA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman