DRN-4372561
The complaint
Mr H complains about Nationwide Building Societys response to his attempts to recover a 
debit card payment he made to a third party A. Mr H is assisted in bringing his complaint by 
a claims management company F.
What happened
Mr H was in dispute with A over a timeshare resale contract he entered into in October 2020. 
He engaged F to assist him with the dispute. In October 2021 F attempted to make a claim 
against Nationwide for As failure to perform its contractual obligations, referencing the 
connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Nationwide didnt respond directly to the claim until February 2022, following Fs 
resubmission of the claim. It told F it had no record of receiving the original claim, and that it 
couldnt assist as section 75 didnt apply to a debit card transaction. F raised a complaint on 
Mr Hs behalf, and in July 2022 Nationwide issued a final response.
In it, Nationwide reiterated that a section 75 claim couldnt be made. Nationwides response 
noted that Mr Hs use of his debit card provided for a chargeback claim to be made through 
the Visa card scheme. However, it went on to say that it was now outside the timescale to 
raise such a claim.
Our investigator acknowledged Nationwides point that a section 75 claim couldnt be made 
in relation to a debit card payment. But she was satisfied Nationwide had received Fs 
October 2021 email, and that Nationwide ought to have raised a chargeback claim in 
response to the dispute even if Mr H hadnt expressly asked it to do so. The investigator 
considered the email contained sufficient information to understand the nature of the dispute, 
and that it should have done more to assist at that point.
She found that in October 2021 a chargeback claim would still have been in time. And there 
was no indication that A had provided the agreed services or refund to Mr H. A had by then 
appeared to have ceased trading, so it was evident that the refund wouldnt be provided. The 
investigator concluded that, had Nationwide raised a chargeback claim in October 2021, it 
would most likely have resulted in recovering Mr Hs money. She proposed that Nationwide 
reimburse Mr H the amount he paid (£5,111) with interest.
Nationwide didnt accept the investigators findings. It asked for this review, saying that its 
chargeback team had reviewed the documents F had provided with its claim and that this 
would have been insufficient to raise a chargeback claim. Nationwide went on to say that if it 
had asked F for further information, it was possible the claim would have fallen outside the 
chargeback timescale. Nationwide attributed responsibility for matters to F, saying that it had 
been sending its emails to the wrong address and was ultimately responsible for delays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Nationwides response to the investigators assessment and carefully considered 
the timeline of events and email exchanges relevant to the dispute. Having done so, I dont 
consider it offers persuasive reasons for me to say that Nationwide dealt with Mr Hs claim 
fairly. While Nationwide has referenced the email addresses F used, the fact remains that 
these were active Nationwide email addresses. Even if F should have known to use a 
different email address to submit the claim, Nationwide hasnt offered any explanation as to 
why it couldnt pass the claim  or any subsequent emails  on to the correct team.
Like our investigator, Im satisfied that Fs October 2021 email contained details of the 
dispute and was successfully delivered to Nationwide. It doesnt strike me as particularly 
onerous to expect that, if the email reached the wrong department or required further 
information, Nationwide would either respond directly to advise of the correct address to use 
or to say it needed more information to assist. It did neither of these things.
Im also a little concerned that Nationwide has sought to reference the November email 
exchange with F as the point at which it was notified of the claim. For the avoidance of any 
doubt, for the reasons Ive already stated my finding is that Nationwide was notified of the 
claim on 5 October 2021. Nationwides email in November was from its Complaints team. It 
was seeking Mr Hs personal information in order to log an expression of dissatisfaction, 
rather than to acknowledge receipt of any claim or obtain evidence to progress it.
At best, Nationwides arguments as to Fs actions might suggest some form of mitigation of 
its liability. But Im not persuaded that would be appropriate. Nationwide could  and should 
 have done much more to assist with looking at and progressing the claim in a timely 
manner. Even by January 2022, Nationwide had the opportunity to handle the claim correctly 
by acknowledging the potential for a chargeback, as F had flagged in its email of that date. 
Ive seen nothing to indicate that Nationwide told F to get in touch with the debit card team 
(or provided details of how to do so) at any point until after the timescale had passed. I dont 
consider that was good enough. And I consider that the poor handling of the claim by 
Nationwide was the cause of any chargeback claim Mr H might have been able to make 
falling out of time.
The card scheme rules provide for a claim to be made within 120 days of the original 
transaction or, if later, the point at which agreed services fail to be provided. This is subject 
to an overall timescale (or long-stop) of 540 days from the transaction date.
Mr Hs original payment was made on 14 October 2020. The agreement with A provided for 
it to fulfil its services to Mr H within 12 months or he would receive a full refund. But by the 
time Mr H made his claim in October 2021, it had become apparent that the timeshare hadnt 
and wouldnt be relinquished by the agreed date. It further appeared that A had ceased 
trading (I understand that A didnt respond to Fs contact and that its website had shut 
down). So the relevant date for the purposes of a chargeback claim would be that it would 
need to be raised within 120 days of that point.
As Ive already found, Nationwide was notified of Mr Hs claim in October 2021. That was 
within the 120-day timescale in the card scheme rules (assuming a 12-month period from 
when Mr H had concerns that the contract would not be fulfilled, day 120 would have been 
no earlier than 2 February 2022). Looking at the contact Nationwide received from F on 
behalf of Mr H between October 2021 and 2 February 2022, Im satisfied that there was 
sufficient time and opportunity for Nationwide both to have looked into the chargeback claim 
and to have sought more evidence from F if, as it has said, its chargeback team would have 
thought it necessary to do so.I dont believe it would be right for me to reach a finding that, had Nationwide done this, F 
would have failed to respond to any such request. F didnt reply to Nationwides Complaints 
teams email, but that doesnt mean a specific request for information to further its clients 
underlying claim would have gone unanswered. Given Nationwide didnt make that request, I 
dont consider it necessary for me to speculate about how F might have responded.
Putting things right
A card issuer doesnt generally adopt liability for the actions of an independent third party 
simply because the customer paid using their debit card. But where a chargeback right 
exists and theres a reasonable prospect of success, as a matter of good practice (and as 
Nationwide will be aware, the long-standing approach of our service) Id expect a card issuer 
to attempt to assist its customer by raising a dispute.
While that doesnt always mean the outcome of such an action will be in the customers 
favour, Ive no reason to think that a properly formed chargeback claim in the individual 
circumstances at play in Mr Hs case would have been successfully defended by A or its 
merchant acquirer. With this in mind, I consider it reasonable to say that had Nationwide 
handled the claim more effectively, Mr H would not have suffered the loss he currently faces.
Because of this, I consider it fair that Nationwide compensates Mr H for that loss. It should 
pay him the amount he would otherwise have been able to recover through the chargeback, 
which is the £5,111 he paid using his debit card in October 2020.
To reflect the fact Mr H has been without the use of this money since the point at which he 
might reasonably have expected to recover it under the chargeback and the inconvenience 
hes experienced as a result, Nationwide should also pay him interest on this amount, 
calculated at 8% simple per year. Allowing a reasonable period of 90 days for additional 
claim information to be obtained and the claim to be determined, Mr H might reasonably 
have expected to obtain reimbursement by 4 January 2022. So this interest calculation 
should run from 4 January 2022 until the date Nationwide pays the settlement. Nationwide 
might be required to deduct tax from the interest element of this award. If Nationwide does 
so, it should provide Mr H with a tax deduction certificate should he request one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To settle it, I direct Nationwide Building 
Society to take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman