DRN-4173717
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr E1, acting as the executors of the estate of Mr E, complained about the 
service provided to the executors by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited 
(HL). They hold HL responsible for investment loss suffered by the estate following the sale 
of holdings in an Individual Savings Account (ISA). 
To put things right, the executors want HL to pay compensation to cover the shortfall in the 
sale price achieved. 
 
What happened
Mr E died in 2022 and Mrs M and Mr E1 are his appointed executors, with authority to bring 
a complaint on behalf of the estate. Mrs M has handled the complaint on behalf of the 
executors. 
The estate included various investments Mr E held with HL on an execution-only basis  this 
complaint is just about his HL ISA. The executors say that if HL had provided them with the 
necessary information and the form they were required to complete, they would have given 
instructions to sell the ISA on 24 May 2022, at the same time as they instructed other trades 
and when market prices were higher.
HL didnt agree it was responsible for any investment loss. HL did however offer Mrs M a 
payment of £250 in recognition of the fact that its general processing times didnt reflect the 
service it hoped to offer clients, especially in the case of bereavement. Mrs M didnt feel this 
went far enough to resolve the complaint. An investigator at this service looked into what 
happened and he didnt uphold the complaint. In brief summary, the investigators view was 
that there wasnt enough to show that HL had made any error that had resulted in loss to the 
estate and he noted that the executors could have taken steps to mitigate loss  and it was 
up to them to do that, not HL.
Mrs M disagreed. In response to the investigators view, Mrs M mainly said that she didnt 
feel that the complaint had been properly understood and the letter and form that HL said 
should have been included in the pack were missing. There were other forms which the 
executors acted upon. Mrs M put things this way: So due to a mistake on HL's side 
(someone not physically adding the letters to the pack, or printing them), we lost a significant 
amount of money.
And whilst Mrs M understood this was an execution-only account, she also felt that HL was 
in a position of trust and it had a duty of care to make clear what the executors options were. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I understand that whats happened has been upsetting and frustrating for the executors at 
what was a difficult time. HL acknowledged that there were some shortcomings in the 
service it provided to Mrs M. But this isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold the 
complaint overall. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented and reach what I think is an independent, fair, 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather than take any side. Having 
looked afresh at the complaint, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. But 
since Mrs M has clarified that theres no issue about post going astray (which our 
investigator thought might have happened) Ill explain how I've reached my decision.
My findings are made on a balance of probabilities  what is more likely than not  based on 
the evidence that has been provided by the parties. In simple terms, to uphold this complaint 
there would have to be persuasive evidence that made it more likely than not that HL had 
done something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably in a way that has impacted 
adversely on the estate and caused loss. 
A key part of this complaint concerns the executors expectations of HLs role here, so my 
approach has focussed on this. 
The executors were entitled to expect that HL would deal with the estate, through them, in a 
way that was fair and reasonable.
HL heard from Mrs M on 3 May 2022 and replied to Mrs M on 17 May 2022. HL has 
acknowledged that its processing timeframes could generally have been better. But I havent 
seen anything to show that Mrs M chased things up with HL before 18 May 2022  when HL 
had already sent its response. So I cant fairly say that HL was aware that the executors felt 
there was any particular urgency to press on with the sale of assets held in the estate. And, 
given that HL responded meaningfully to Mrs M within ten working days of her providing the 
death certificate, I dont consider the time it took to write back to her here is enough of a 
reason for me to uphold the complaint.    
HL explained in its 17 May letter that it was preparing a portfolio valuation and that it would 
send details along with the forms needed to settle their accounts. The executors were 
informed that Mr Es accounts had been frozen and: Any holdings will remain invested until 
theyre distributed, or we receive a completed Declaration & Indemnity form from the estate 
executor or administrator to sell them, meaning their values may fluctuate.
I think it's fair to say that the executors would have been able to see from this letter that if 
they wanted to sell the ISA held in Mr Es estate, the next step would be for them to 
complete the necessary Declaration & Indemnity form so HL could carry out their selling 
instructions. 
Theres a direct contradiction between HL and Mrs M about when the Declaration & 
Indemnity form was provided. HL says this was included in the Estate Application Pack 
(EAP) sent to Mrs M soon after the 17 May letter  and that the EAP would have included 
the Declaration & Indemnity form. Mrs M is adamant that the Declaration & Indemnity form 
was not included in the EAP. In support of what she says, she points to the fact that she 
immediately completed and returned the necessary paperwork to instruct the sale of other 
assets in the estate. She says she would have instructed the sale of the ISA at the same 
time  if only HL had provided the Declaration & Indemnity form that had to be completed for 
this to happen.
I have no reason at all to doubt that Mrs M is certain about what shes told us. At the same 
time, I must keep in mind that HL is very clear about the fact that the checks it recorded 
when the EAP was sent mean it can be confident that the Declaration & Indemnity form went 
to Mrs M as part of the pack. But I dont need to make a finding on this point because it makes no difference to the outcome overall. The onus was on the executors to take the 
necessary steps to carry out the estate administration. HL had told Mrs M in the 17 May 
letter that the Declaration & Indemnity form was needed for a sale. The cover letter for the 
EAP explained further what was required. So I think Mrs M would have understood that 
completing this form was an essential pre-requisite for HL to implement any selling 
instructions and that she should have received it.  
In these circumstances, since Mrs M said she wasnt able to provide the completed 
Declaration & Indemnity form, I would have expected her to chase this up with HL if the 
executors had felt there was any particular urgency to achieve a quick sale of the ISA. HL 
has said that if Mrs M had contacted it with any queries she would have been supported and 
an additional Declaration & Indemnity form would have been issued. And I can see that 
when Mrs M did chase things up with HL on 15 June 2022, matters progressed quickly and 
HL received back the completed form it needed on 16 June 2022 and instructed the sale the 
same day. So it seems likely to me that this could have happened earlier had Mrs M got in 
touch with HL sooner about the Declaration & Indemnity form. 
Id like to make it very clear that, in coming to my decision, I make no criticism of Mrs M  
she found herself suddenly and unexpectedly having to deal with what she described as a 
huge and devastating loss and I feel only the deepest sympathy for Mrs M in this situation. 
She told us she had never had to deal with these types of accounts before and didnt even 
know HL was providing an execution-only service. So I can appreciate why she might have 
expected HL to be more proactive and guide her through the sorts of decisions she had to 
make as executor. 
But I must be impartial and I cant fairly say that HL gave her any wrong advice or that it 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards her or that it failed in its obligations owed to the 
estate. 
To sum up, this leads me to conclude that I cant fairly hold HL responsible for any losses 
arising as a result of the ISA sale not happening any sooner than it did because:
HL made Mrs M aware that she needed to complete and return the Declaration & 
Indemnity form 
had Mrs M wanted to progress the matter more quickly, she could have got back in 
touch with HL sooner and requested a further Declaration & Indemnity form 
HL acted promptly on receipt of Mrs Ms instructions as soon as it received the 
Declaration & Indemnity form
I dont find that HLs duty of care in these circumstances went beyond this.
For these reasons, Im not planning to uphold this complaint. So I cannot award the redress 
Mrs M seeks for the estate.
If I have not referred to everything mentioned during the course of the correspondence about 
this complaint, thats because theres nothing more I can usefully add to what our 
investigator said and Ive concentrated on what seems to me to be the core issues I need to 
address. This reflects the fact that we provide an informal complaints handling service as a 
free alternative to the courts. 
I hope that setting things out as I've done is helpful and even though this isnt the outcome 
Mrs M hoped for, she will at least feel that her complaint has been fully considered by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs M sent email representations and Ive also I've carefully listened to the call recording of 
the discussion she had with our investigator when she spoke about the reasons she was 
unhappy with what Id said in my provisional decision. In very brief summary, Mrs M feels 
that her complaint has been misunderstood throughout. 
HL said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint.
I appreciate how strongly Mrs M feels about what happened and she holds a different view 
to me. Im grateful to her for taking the time and trouble to write and phone in with her 
representations and I would like to assure her that Ive taken carefully into account 
everything thats been said, including her comments in response to my provisional decision. 
Im very sorry that Mrs M still feels that her complaint has been misunderstood. It may help 
to clarify my remit here. I cant award redress for any complaint where the financial business 
hasnt first been given a chance to put things right, within the timescales that businesses are 
given to do this. We looked into a complaint that HL didnt provide all the available 
information relating to an ISA account which Mrs M said led to the estate losing out 
financially because she wasnt alerted to the possibility of selling the ISA sooner, so avoiding 
a drop in the ISA value. 
If the executors feel they have further cause for complaint that goes beyond the scope of the 
complaint they originally put to HL and brought to us, then they should first tell HL what 
those concerns are, so it has an opportunity to respond. If they still feel unhappy after that, 
they may be able to bring a new complaint to this service.
Mrs M says she feels that someone else has made a mistake and the executors are having 
to suffer for it  and I sympathise. But Mrs M hasnt provided me with any new information 
that changes what I think about this case. I can only uphold this complaint if I find that HL did 
something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably and this resulted in financial loss or other 
detriment to the estate. I must keep in mind that whilst the executors were reasonably 
entitled to rely on HL to carry out their instructions, it was up to the executors to identify and 
deal with the estate assets. The onus was on the executors to take the necessary steps to 
do this and action matters accordingly. So even if I had found that the pack had been 
incomplete, this wouldnt be enough of a reason on its own for me to uphold this complaint. 
Dealing with the specific points of concern Mrs M mentioned:
she explained that when she first contacted HL she received only a standard 
response and this was followed up with the letter of 17 May that she said only talked 
about Mr Es self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and included a generic 
pamphlet about inheriting money, tax certificates, statements and another form 
relating to who the executors thought should benefit from the SIPP. She said this 
letter made no reference to the ISA and share account and asked me to consider 
how she could have known if there was something missing from the pack. Whilst 
I fully acknowledge that Mrs M is entitled to her own view about this, Ive said in my provisional decision that HLs letter of 17 May did make reference to Any 
holdings.., which I still think it's fair to say reasonably covered any other holdings in 
addition to the SIPP, and also to the Declaration & Indemnity form being needed for 
any sale. 
Theres a clear contradiction between what Mrs M says and what HL says about the 
contents of the Estate Application Pack and I must be fair to both parties and even-
handed. Mrs M says that she only later found out there should have been another 
letter in the same pack relating to the ISA and share account and she is very clear 
that someone at HL made a mistake and omitted to include this. She points to the 
fact that she would have acted on this straightaway  just as she did with the SIPP. 
But I cant fairly choose to prefer what Mrs M says when HL is equally certain that the 
pack wouldve been complete and its usual process would have included the 
Declaration & Indemnity form that had to be completed for the ISA and its checks 
appear to show that everything was included that shouldve been. On balance, 
I havent seen enough to be able to make a finding that the Estate Application Pack 
was incomplete. And Ive explained above why making a different finding on this 
point wouldnt affect the outcome of the complaint. 
HL wasnt able to place sales for an estate until it held a signed Declaration & Indemnity 
form so theres nothing it could have done here until the executors completed and returned 
the form. It acted promptly on the executors instructions as soon as it was able to do so.
I understand that Mrs M is disappointed in the outcome of her complaint but I hope that 
setting things out as Ive done helps explain how Ive come to my view.
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, for all the reasons I have explained more 
fully in my provisional decision, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman