DRN-3223253
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a sofa he purchased through a fixed sum loan with 
Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano).  
What happened
Mr W has been represented by his partner during this process. For ease, and because Mr W 
is named on the finance agreement, I will refer to him throughout this decision.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ikano, but I agree with the investigators view. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr W made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
If the sofa wasnt of a satisfactory quality there would have been a breach of the implied 
conditions of the contract as the sofa should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
The fault with this sofa wasnt identified for almost two years but Im persuaded it was 
developing in the sofa when supplied, or that the sofa hadnt proven to be suitably durable, 
as the technicians report accepts the supplier has responsibility. It says:
Interior foam broken, structure of the interior has failed. interiors required
In those circumstances the relevant legislation gives a business one opportunity to fix the 
issue. But here, its clear that repair that took place in November 2019, failed. 
The relevant legislation says that in those circumstances the consumer has the right to reject 
the goods, but the business can retain some of the money paid in respect of the use the 
consumer has had from the product.
As the fact finding in a section 75 claim can vary and is often extensive, there are no fixed 
time limits within which a claim should be resolved. But here, I dont think Ikano have been 
fair. Mr W raised the issue with the failed repair with Ikano in late 2020 but Ikano made no 
mention of that complaint until after it was escalated to this service. I dont think any further 
investigations were necessary at that point. I think there was an acceptance the repair had 
failed, and a resolution could have been provided earlier.
So, I think Ikano should pay some compensation to Mr W for the distress and inconvenience 
hes experienced as a result of those delays and, in the circumstances, I think £100 is 
sufficient.
Theres been some dispute about how much Ikano should be entitled to retain in respect of 
the use Mr W has had from the sofa. The total payable under the agreement was £1,857 and 
the investigator has suggested Ikano should retain 20% of that. The supplier has provided a 
discount voucher of £700 that Mr W has rejected. 
Theres no set way to establish what a fair deduction should be. Ive considered the impact 
on Mr Ws use and think its likely that the failure developed over the first two years. Whilst 
he didnt complain about it for a time I think Mr Ws use of the sofa will have been impacted 
during those first two years. I think its fair to suggest the problem will have been worsening 
but noticeable and that, after Mr W complained, his use of the sofa will have been severely 
impacted. Overall, Im persuaded that it would be fair for Ikano to refund 80% of all payments 
Mr W has made towards his agreement.
  
Putting things right
Im asking Ikano to resolve this matter in the way Ive set out above.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Ikano Bank AB (publ) to:
Pay Mr W £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Cancel the agreement with nothing more to pay, if it hasnt already ended.
Remove the sofa or refund any cost Mr W incurs to have the sofa removed from his 
property.
Refund 80% of the payments Mr W has made. Retain the rest in respect of fair 
usage. Add 8% simple interest to the refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ws credit file in relation to 
this issue.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman