DRN-2709508
The complaint
Mr S complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject it and 
end the agreement.
What happened
Mr S tells us that he acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill call A in May 2019. Mr S 
explains that the vehicle wasnt delivered until several days after hed inspected it at As 
premises. And that within a few days of delivery hed raised his concerns about the condition 
of the vehicle. This included scratches, scuff marks and paint marks inside the vehicle. He 
said he spoke to As sales person and sent photos of the damage on 3 June. He states that 
he sent further photos on 12 July 2019.
Mr S explains that he returned the vehicle to As on 11 September 2019 where it remained 
until 17 December. During this time he says the vehicle was supposed to be returned to the 
manufacturer for inspection of a faulty headlight and the heated seats not working. He says 
that he raised a complaint with BMW on 17 September but that it reported that A had 
described the faults as cosmetic. 
Upon collection in December he states that he was told that the heated seats and lights still 
hadnt been repaired. He says the vehicles not been driven much since then largely due to 
Covid. But that hes discovered the vehicle had been subject to accident damage repairs of 
which he was previously unaware.
BMW said that Mr S had inspected the vehicle and had also test driven it. And hed not 
mentioned any of the issues which were now raised. It said that it didnt agree that Mr S 
should be allowed to reject the vehicle.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She said that in her 
view the vehicle hadnt been of satisfactory quality when supplied. She said that A had 
carried out repairs to a wing. Yet neither the heated seats or the headlight had been 
repaired.
BMW didnt agree with this outcome. It again made the point that Mr S had been given the 
opportunity to inspect the vehicle prior to supply. As its not been possible to resolve this 
complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr S would be disappointed when he discovered that the vehicle had 
numerous defects. Especially given that hed paid almost £70,000 for a vehicle that was 
seven months old when he acquired it, with only 9,000 miles recorded.
Mr S hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. BMW supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations of 2008 (CPUTR).
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract 
within six months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. 
It reads:
S. 9 Goods to be of satisfactory quality
(1) Every contract to supply goods is to be treated as including a term that the quality of the 
goods is satisfactory.
(2) The quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory, taking account of
(a) any description of the goods,
(3) The quality of goods includes their state and condition; and the following aspects (among 
others) are in appropriate cases aspects of the quality of goods
(a) fitness for all the purposes for which goods of that kind are usually supplied;
(b) appearance and finish;
(c) freedom from minor defects;
(d) safety;
(e) durability.
(4) The term mentioned in subsection (1) does not cover anything which makes the quality of 
the goods unsatisfactory
a) which is specifically drawn to the consumers attention before the contract is made,
b) where the consumer examines the goods before the contract is made, which that 
examination ought to reveal.
The CPUTR amongst other things deals with misleading omissions by a supplier. In 
summary, it requires the customer to be given sufficient information that a reasonable 
consumer would require to make an informed choice as to whether to proceed. That might 
be expected to include information about whether the vehicle had been previously seriously 
damaged.
Mr S complaint is that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied to him and it 
had numerous scratches to the bodywork and bumper and other faults including a headlight 
and heated seats not working. He says he tried to reject it at an early stage but he feels that 
A was simply trying to avoid and delay dealing with the issues.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Where information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive viewed a set of photographs supplied by Mr S. These depict a number of scratches, 
scuffs and other marks. These have apparently been described by A as cosmetic
I think what might fairly be described as cosmetic has far less scope when applied to a 
premium vehicle such as the one in this complaint than it would with an older, used and 
much cheaper vehicle. 
BMW maintain that as Mr S didnt raise these matters initially, its for him to prove that they 
were present at the point of supply. I dont agree with this assertion. Its a relevant 
consideration in determining satisfactory quality that a customer has had the chance to 
inspect goods prior to supply. But that of itself doesnt automatically mean that if a customer 
fails to observe an issue which would make the goods of unsatisfactory quality that they 
have lost their CRA rights. The test is what ought to be noticed.
And if the issues were simply cosmetic  with the implication that they were so minor as to 
be of no significance to the quality of the vehicle - theres also no reason why A shouldnt 
have pointed them out. Had it done so it wouldve removed any doubt as to whether Mr S 
accepted the vehicle in that condition.
And here the goods werent delivered until several days after the inspection. I dont think it 
can be reasonably disputed that having the chance to inspect items at leisure - and without 
the inevitable distractions of an ongoing sales pitch  is a far more preferable means of 
identifying quality issues. Mr S complained and supplied some photos in early June and later 
in July. I dont think this is an unreasonable period of delay, nor is it strange to pick up new 
issues over a period of time. I also note and accept what Mr S says about contacting the 
dealer and the difficulties in the vehicle being returned to A due to the distance from Mr S 
home.
Having viewed the photographs I think some issues are clearer than others. And I think its 
understandable that some of the items about which Mr S complained wouldnt have been 
readily apparent at the time he inspected and test drove the vehicle. That would include 
faults with the headlight and heated seats as well as some of the scratches.
Ive viewed a series of text messages between Mr S and As sales agent. In summary, these 
exchanges show that Mr S continued to express concern about the issues of damage; that 
the agent accepted that there were issues which required repairing; and that after repairs 
had been done he would be prepared to sell the vehicle for Mr S, settle the finance and 
refund any surplus over and above the outstanding finance to Mr S.
I infer overall from the text exchanges that there was a recognition by As sales agent that 
there were issues with the vehicle that A should put right.Mr S has also provided a very brief report in the form of an email dated 8 April 2020, which 
he obtained from a bodywork repair business Ill refer to as E. It reported that the vehicle 
had previously been in an accident and earlier repairs had been made to a rear door; rear 
panel; front panel and bumper. It also reported the heated seats didnt work, a headlight 
required replacing along with the front grille; and there were paint marks inside the vehicle.
Im not able to give much weight to some aspects of this report as its very brief and the 
experience of the writer is unknown. And theres no other information to support some of the 
findings. This would include the statement that the vehicle had been in an accident prior to 
supply to Mr S. Although it isnt in dispute that A did repair a wing. Which is one of the items 
identified as having been previously repaired.
But it does identify faults with a headlight and heated seats which were again separately 
reported as still being present when the vehicle broke down in January 2021. 
In my opinion, for a vehicle which was nearly new when supplied with very little mileage and 
for which Mr S had paid close to £70,000 a reasonable person would have expected the 
vehicle to have been in good condition with very little wear and tear. It certainly wouldnt be 
expected to have a defective headlight and heated seats that dont work.
I find that A and BMW have had ample opportunity to put things right. And even when the 
vehicle was in for three months between September and December 2019, A seems only to 
have repaired a wing panel. I havent seen anything to suggest the scratches have been 
repaired.
Perhaps most tellingly, its not disputed that the vehicle was returned to the manufacturers 
for inspection regarding the reported faults with the headlight and heated seats. Its never 
been suggested that either of these issues were repaired. 
More recently Ive seen a breakdown report from 5 January 2021. The recovery service 
reported that a front headlight was inoperative due to water ingress and the heated seats 
didnt work. 
As both these latter issues  irrespective of the scratches and other bodywork issues  were 
identified within six months of supply and havent been repaired, I think that shows beyond 
any reasonable doubt that the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
In these circumstances I find that its fair and reasonable for Mr S to reject the vehicle  as 
he originally requested to do. Accordingly, I uphold his complaint.
I dont agree with BMWs suggestion that he shouldnt have used the vehicle whilst awaiting 
the outcome of this decision. Not only would this have caused even more inconvenience its 
highly probable that any similar vehicle taken on hire in this time wouldve come at a greater 
cost than the monthly payments. I think by limiting the use of his vehicle Mr S has taken 
reasonable steps to mitigate his loss.
The odometer reading at the recent breakdown was recorded as 14,046 miles. So since 
supply, the vehicle had up to that time only covered an additional 5,000 miles in about 19 
months. This is far below average annual mileage for private domestic use.
The agreement had a permitted mileage allowance up to 8,000 miles per year which is 666 
miles per month. So I think the best means of calculating an appropriate amount for fair use 
is that BMW should retain one monthly payment for each 666 miles completed. This is to be 
based on the difference in mileage at the time the vehicle is collected from that on the date 
of supply. Any remaining mileage should be charged pro rata in the same proportion as it represents of the monthly payment  
Putting things right
BMW should take the following action:
1.     End the agreement with nothing further for Mr S to pay from the date of 
termination;
2.     Collect the vehicle at no cost to Mr S;
3.     Refund the cash deposit of £10,000 to Mr S;
4.     Calculate the amount to be retained for fair use based on one monthly payment 
being due for each completed 666 miles covered from date of supply to date of 
collection. Any remaining amount of less than 666 miles to be calculated on the 
same basis but pro rata; Refund to Mr S any amount (if any) which has been paid 
above this;
5.     Pay £200 to Mr S for distress and inconvenience;
6.     Arrange for the removal of adverse information (if any) relating to this agreement 
from Mr S credit file.
Pay simple interest at the rate of 8 per cent per year from date of settlement to date of 
payment in respect of items 3 and 4 above.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint. 
I now require BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to take the action stipulated in the 
preceding section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman