DRN-1841282
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Lloyds Bank PLC, trading at the time as Cheltenham and Gloucester plc, 
mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in relation to a mortgage. For 
ease, Ill refer to the business as Lloyds for the majority of the rest of this decision.  
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy when they applied for a mortgage in 1994. They paid a 
monthly amount for the policy. Whilst the mortgage was in joint names the PPI covered Mr D 
alone for accident and sickness and unemployment. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
Mr and Mrs D raised a separate issue with us about Mr D making a back dated claim on the 
policy. That has been referred to Lloyds and will be progressed separately to this complaint 
which addresses just the possible miss-sale.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case. Where there is missing or 
insufficient evidence for me to consider, I need to make my decision based on a balance of 
probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said, 
and make a decision based on what I think most likely happened. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint for the reasons Ive set out below.
I think Lloyds made Mr and Mrs D aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI and 
they chose to take it. I can see on the mortgage application that the adviser records that PPI 
had been discussed and that Mr and Mrs D had agreed to go ahead with it for Mr D only. 
Neither party has been able to provide a copy of the application form that must have then 
been completed, most likely. Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when key 
documents from the time of the sale are missing as they are here. However, considering 
these events happened over 25 years ago, its not surprising that I dont have all the 
documents from the time of the sale. 
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Lloyds didnt make Mr and Mrs D aware the PPI 
was optional, or failed to get their consent. Considering how long ago the sale was in this 
case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on these points. So having considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely 
that Lloyds wouldve made Mr and Mrs D aware that the PPI was optional and that they 
chose to take it, even though they may not remember that now, many years later. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them  and it seems to have been right for them based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. For example Mr D was eligible for the policy and was not affected 
by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And Mr and Mrs D seem to have had 
a need for the cover. Mr and Mrs D told us that Mr D had only statutory sick pay and they 
had only small savings, such that they may have had to rely their family to help make their 
mortgage repayments. 
However, upon a successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, and this 
would have paid out in addition to the sick pay that Mr D told us about, and would have 
reduced their reliance on whatever help their family may have been in a position to offer 
them at such a time. So, thinking about all of this and the potentially serious consequences 
of defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I think Mr and Mrs D could have found the 
policy useful. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. So having thought about everything carefully, I think the 
policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs D.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr and Mrs D, Lloyds also had to give them clear 
enough information about the policy, so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Lloyds gave them was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, 
for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable, Im not persuaded more or better 
information wouldve made a difference to their decision to take out the PPI. So, I dont think 
Mr and Mrs D have lost out as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman