DRN-3111268
The complaint
Mr W complains that, when he asked Trading 212 UK Limited (Trading 212) to pay the 
cash in his trading account to his bank account, he didnt receive the full balance. He says 
Trading 212 still owes him £1,300.
What happened
Mr W submitted an online withdrawal request to transfer the full balance of cash held in his 
Trading 212 account - £2,523. A couple of days later he received £1,223 in four separate 
payments. He contacted Trading 212 to ask about the remaining £1,300. Trading 212 told 
him the payments could take up to three business days to show in his account and that, if 
the payment still hadnt been received, it could supply the Acquirers reference number 
(ARN).
The missing £1,300 had been made in two payments of £900 and £400 and Trading 212 
supplied Mr W with the ARNs. Mr Ws bank investigated but told him it couldnt trace the 
payments.
Following his complaint, Trading 212 said the payments had been successfully sent to 
Mr Ws bank card and that he would need to contact his bank to locate them.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there 
was enough evidence to show that Trading 212 had successfully executed the refunds and 
he couldnt conclude that it had done anything wrong.
Mr W didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
Trading 212 has done something wrong because the money has not reached his 
account and Trading 212 must be responsible for that. His bank has searched the 
system and told him the payments dont exist.
Theres evidence that other Trading 212 customers have had similar problems.
There needs to be an understanding of where the money has gone and why it hasnt 
reached his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Firstly, its important to clarify that my role is to resolve individual disputes between 
businesses and consumers. I dont have the power to tell a business how it should develop 
its internal policies and procedures. Thats a matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). And, whilst its disappointing that neither Trading 212 nor Mr Ws bank can 
tell him where the missing £1,300 has gone, it isnt my role to investigate this. My role is to 
decide if Trading 212 has done anything wrong and my decision is reached on the evidence 
provided by the parties involved.
I do sympathise with Mr W. He requested his money was paid to his bank account, but he 
hasnt received all of it. But, unfortunately, I cannot uphold his complaint for the following 
reasons:
When Mr W requested payment of the balance of his account, Trading 212 arranged for the 
money to be repaid to his bank card, rather than his bank account. But I find this was in line 
with the agreed terms and conditions which say (8.4):
You acknowledge that by default, the withdrawal of any portion of the Free Funds will be 
executed via the same method and to the same source as the one we originally received the 
funds from.
And the terms also set out that Trading 212 will transact withdrawals using a third party. The 
terms say (8.6):
You consent that whenever you confirm a withdrawal, Trading 212 will use a specific 
payment intermediary or bank to process your withdrawal as per your Payment Instruction.
So I find that Trading 212 complied with the agreed terms and conditions when it instructed 
its intermediary to make the payments to Mr W.
Six separate payments were made on the same day. But only four of those payments 
reached Mr Ws account. Im satisfied from the evidence Trading 212 has provided that all 
payments were made using the same information. The information Trading 212 has provided 
about the two missing payments of £900 and £400 is enough for me to conclude that it didnt 
make a mistake with the payments.
Trading 212 told us that Mr Ws card provider has confirmed the refunds were successfully 
processed.
The card provider has suggested Mr W contact his card issuer to trace the payments. Whilst 
I appreciate Mr W has already done this, without success, it does seem that it may need to 
do more to track the payments.
I accept Mr W hasnt received the money. But I dont find this was because of a mistake by 
Trading 212, or its intermediary.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman