DRN-4196498
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc didnt tell him that interest rates dropped after he 
booked a new interest rate product. He asks that HSBC applies a lower rate to his mortgage.
What happened
Mr Ls interest rate product was due to expire on 31 January 2023. In late 2022 Mr L spoke 
to HSBC about taking out new products. HSBC said he could book a product and change 
this at any time up to 1 February 2023, when the product was due to take effect. Mr L says 
HSBC didnt tell him that rates reduced on 30 January 2023. He wasnt aware of this until it 
was too late to change as the product hed chosen had taken effect. 
Mr L says he feels betrayed. He says not being able to take out the lower rate has caused 
him mental stress and anxiety and affected his sleep. 
Our investigator said there was no requirement for HSBC to contact Mr L when it changed its 
interest rate products. She said it was for Mr L to check and contact HSBC if he wanted to 
change products. 
Mr L didnt consider this was a fair outcome and asked that an ombudsman re-consider the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr L spoke to HSBC in late 2022 it gave him correct information. HSBC said interest 
rates can change at any time. It said Mr L could secure a new product straightaway and 
cancel it and take out a different product at any time up to 1 February 2023. 
HSBC issued a new product offer in October 2022. After this, Mr L found products online and 
applied for products on an execution only basis. HSBC issued new product offers on 11 
October 2022, 15 December 2022 and 30 December 2022.
Theres no suggestion Mr L was contacted by HSBC before making these applications. He 
actively made these applications, so I think he was reasonably aware that HSBC didnt 
automatically update his product choice when lower rates became available.
Based on the available evidence, I dont think HSBC told Mr L that it would tell him when 
rates changed or said that it would automatically update the product hed chosen if better 
rates became available. In fact, on the call in October 2022, HSBCs adviser told Mr L he 
could cancel the product at any time until it took effect and choose a different product. I think 
HSBC made Mr L reasonably aware that it was for him to check what products were 
available and contact HSBC if he wanted to change product.
Its unfortunate that Mr L wasnt aware that HSBC changed its product rates on 30 January 
2023 until after his product took effect. I appreciate how disappointed Mr L is to have missed 
out on a lower interest rate product, and Im sorry this has affected his wellbeing. But HSBC 
wasnt required to notify him when it changed its product range, so I cant fairly find it make 
an error when it didnt do so.
HSBC applied the new interest rate product selected by Mr L on 1 February 2023. I dont 
think it made an error or treated Mr L unfairly when it did so. It follows that I dont think its 
fair and reasonable to require HSBC to apply a lower interest rate to Mr Ls mortgage.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman