DRN-3826656
The complaint
Mr T complains that LEBC Group Limited (LEBC) failed to provide advice to him in good time 
and didnt respond to queries despite him paying fees for ongoing services. He would like 
the fees refunded and compensation for the inconvenience caused.
What happened
Mr T had dealt with LEBC for a number of years, with it advising him on all aspects of his 
personal finances. He says his agreement provided for ongoing services including reviews of 
his investments and recommendations where appropriate. In February 2021 Mr T asked 
LEBC for a review meeting. Meetings were held on 26 February and 12 March 2021. At the 
second meeting, his investments and pension benefits were discussed with cashflow 
forecasts showing lower benefits in retirement than Mr T expected, concerning him. He 
forwarded the adviser further information the same day, along with his own calculations. He 
expressed concern that these differed significantly from those presented by the adviser. 
On 15 March 2021 Mr T sent updated calculations and asked if these were correct. The 
adviser didnt respond, and he emailed again on 1 April 2021 saying he hadnt received any 
report or analysis. He also confirmed he had funds to invest and wanted to know whether to 
make an ISA subscription or reduce his mortgage. 
The adviser replied that day saying he was on holiday until 8 April 2021 but confirmed Mr T 
could open a Cash ISA to preserve his annual allowance before the tax year end. Mr T 
responded on 5 April 2021 asking why this was the best option. He says as there was no 
response, he terminated the relationship with LEBC on 4 May 2021. 
Mr T raised a complaint with LEBC in January 2022 about delays. He asked for a refund of 
charges for the year 2021/21, compensation and an apology. LEBC rejected the complaint. It 
said the client agreement provided for an annual review and not ad hoc advice. It said it had 
already provided him with services agreed in 2020/21, with a further review not due until 
August 2021. It said general guidance may have been given but recommendations hadnt 
been made. And any recommendations made would have been subject to additional charges 
above the ongoing fees. 
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it, and he upheld it in 
part.
Our investigator said LEBC had held meetings with Mr T during the year and provided 
reports and information. These were the services set out in the client agreement in place, so 
refunding the charges for the year wasnt fair. But he said LEBC had failed to address Mr Ts 
concerns over the forecasts provided, causing him worry. And it hadnt responded properly 
to his requests for assistance as tax year end deadlines approached. Our investigator said 
there had been ample time for LEBC to respond to Mr Ts queries about this before he 
cancelled the agreement in May 2021. He said it was fair that LEBC pay compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused of £150.
Mr T said he agreed with our investigators view.
But LEBC didnt reply to our investigator, so it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint in part.
I understand Mr Ts frustration about what has happened, but I havent seen any evidence 
that LEBC hadnt provided the services set out in the client agreement with him. The 
agreement was signed by him on 24 February 2019. It sets out what will be provided in 
return for an annual fee of 0.5% of the value of his investments. 
These were portfolio governance, described as:
recommendations for a suitable multi-asset fund that meet your needs and risk 
profile  After each periodic review, the fund is reviewed.
And an Ongoing Review Service. This was to be provided annually but the agreement 
doesnt set out when in the year this will take place. The review process outlined is an 
update on the investments held, an assessment of Mr Ts circumstances, ensuring the 
portfolio governance still meets his needs, the provision of recommendations where 
appropriate. And to Detail any other services agreed.
So, I think what LEBC had undertaken to do in the agreement was to review the existing 
investments and recommend adjustments as required in respect of them rather than offering 
a full financial review or deal with new advice requirements. 
Mr T says he wasnt provided with a report after the March 2021 meeting unlike previous 
years. Following a review, even if the advice was to make no changes, Id expect that to be 
confirmed in writing. LEBC says Mr Ts arrangement was reviewed in August 2020, without a 
report being sent. However, a report and recommendation were sent on 28 May 2020. This 
covered the period from 28 May 2019 to 28 May 2020, following a review meeting in March 
2020 and recommended that no changes be made. So, the next formal review 
summarising charges and recommendations on the existing investments may not have been 
due until 28 May 2021, after Mr T had terminated the relationship. 
And the 28 May 2020 report makes no reference to cash flow modelling or forecasting. 
LEBCs Client Charter brochure does refer to a number of a services that clients can 
benefit from as part of ongoing reviews, including cashflow modelling. But this appears to 
be available at a higher cost of 0.75% rather than the 0.5% here. 
So, I think LEBC was providing the services set out in the agreement. That means it isnt 
reasonable for me to tell it to refund the fees for the year. But it also seems it was providing 
other information, which Mr T had queried, and he was also awaiting recommendations from 
it that it didnt properly respond to. I think its likely these matters fall under the Detail any 
other services agreed part of the service. 
It isnt clear what was agreed about this, but Mr Ts emails show he was anxious about the 
issues. The adviser did respond apologising for the delay over the forecasting queries and 
made a holding suggestion in respect of the ISA subscription in view of tax year end 
deadlines. But then didnt respond further. I think LEBC did have adequate time to come back to him on these issues before the 
agreement was terminated. And it should have either clarified the information and advice it 
would provide. Or set out the basis on which it could do this if, as it appears, this wasnt 
covered by the existing agreement. Mr T was clearly concerned, and I think the failure to 
reply caused him distress and inconvenience that could have been avoided.
Putting things right, 
I dont think LEBC has treated Mr T reasonably. And I think its fair that it should pay him 
£150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused, which is in keeping 
with awards our service would make in similar circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint against LEBC Group Limited in part.
I direct LEBC Group Limited to pay Mr T £150 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he has suffered.
LEBC Group Limited must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mr T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If LEBC Group Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also 
give a certificate showing this if Mr T asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman