DRN-3117295
The complaint
Miss F complains that a car acquired with finance from Ald Automotive Limited (AA) wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
Miss F was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with AA.
Miss F feels that the car was mis-sold to her because it doesnt have the colour changing 
LED lighting which she specifically requested.  Shes also experienced issues with the 
infotainment system.
Miss F complained to AA. It acknowledged that the broker (V) could have been clearer with 
Miss F about the specification of the car and offered £500 as a gesture of goodwill.
In relation to the issues with the infotainment system, AA acknowledged that these were 
confirmed faults and said that the manufacturer was working on a software release to rectify 
the fault. It offered Miss F two options  to reject the car and receive a refund of all payments 
minus a deduction for usage, or secondly, to wait for the software update and receive a 
refund of one months rental payment.
Miss F wasnt happy with either of the options. She was concerned that if she rejected the 
car she would be left without a means of transport whilst she looked for another car. She 
said a refund of one months rental wasnt enough if she kept the car because it would be 
months before the fault was fixed.
Miss F brought her complaint to this service. She says she wants to keep the car and be 
provided with a hire car whilst the faults are repaired, and the LED lighting fitted. 
Alternatively, Miss F says that if she cant have a hire car, she wants a reduction in her 
monthly payments until the repairs have been carried out and the LED lighting fitted.
Our investigator put Miss Fs preferred options to AA. It said it wasnt possible to add the 
LED lighting now as it was a factory fit only. It said the fault with the infotainment didnt stop 
Miss F using the car and the software update would be available soon.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied that there was a fault with the 
infotainment system and that this meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
The investigator said that Miss F had already waited an unreasonable length of time for the 
fault to be fixed and because there was no guarantee that the software update would fix the 
fault, it was fair to allow Miss F to reject the car now.
The investigator also said she was satisfied that the car had been mis-sold to Miss F, based 
on the contact of the calls. She said AA had acknowledged that the broker could have 
explained the specification of the car more clearly and that colour changing LED lighting was 
am important feature for Miss F. The investigator said that Miss F had suffered a loss of 
expectation and inconvenience because the feature wasnt present, and because it couldnt 
be added now.
The investigator concluded by recommending that Miss F reject the car, receive a pro rata 
refund of her deposit, a partial refund of rental payments and compensation.
AA didnt agree. It said it had previously offered a rejection and Miss F had declined this. It 
felt that its earlier offer to allow rejection and refund all payments less a deduction for usage 
was fair.
Miss F didnt agree either. She said shed tried to negotiate with AA to resolve things an felt 
that the compensation didnt reflect the inconvenience shed suffered as a result of the 
issues with the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because AA supplied the car to Miss F under a regulated consumer hire agreement, theres 
an implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors 
such as the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. Satisfactory quality includes 
things such as the general condition of the car, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety and durability.
AA supplied Miss F with a brand-new car. So, Id expect the quality of the car to be of a very 
high standard, and to remain free from defects for a reasonable period of time.
Theres no dispute that theres a fault with the infotainment system. Miss F reported issues 
with the multimedia system within the first 30 days of getting the car. AA had the issues 
investigated and has acknowledged that there is a fault. It says a software update will 
resolve the issue, but the update isnt yet available.
I dont think a reasonable person would expect to experience a fault like this with a brand-
new car. Nor do I think its reasonable to allow the business an opportunity to repair the fault, 
when the repair  the software update  isnt yet available. Im of the view that the fault with 
the infotainment system makes the car of unsatisfactory quality and because the fault cant 
be repaired immediately, I think Miss F should be allowed to reject the car. 
AA has made the point that it has already offered Miss F the opportunity to reject the car. It 
says it offered to refund all her payments, less a deduction for usage.
Whilst I agree that AA has offered a rejection, I dont think the terms of the rejection were 
fair. Although I accept that the fault with the infotainment system hasnt prevented Miss F 
from driving the car, as a result of the fault, Miss F has experienced impaired use because of 
the beeping, the messages on the dashboard and the radio not turning off when it was 
supposed to.
All of these issues are as a result of the fault and have meant that the car doesnt perform as 
expected. The issue has also caused Miss F stress and anxiety whist driving the car. 
Because of the impaired use element, I think Miss F should receive a refund of 15% of all 
rental payments made. And because of the trouble and upset caused, I think Miss F should 
receive further compensation of £250, in addition to the £500 already offered.
Ive also considered whether the car was mis-sold to Miss F. In order to find that theres 
been a misrepresentation of the agreement, I would need to be satisfied that the broker (V) 
made an untrue statement of fact which induced Miss F to enter into the agreement.Ive listened to the available call recordings. Based on these, Im satisfied that Miss F was 
led to believe that she was getting colour changing LED lighting. Its clear from Miss Fs own 
evidence  and from the call recordings  that this feature was very important to her. I can 
see that the point of supply documents make no reference to the colour changing LED 
lighting, so its not the case that Miss F has been charged for something she hasnt received. 
So, theres nothing to refund here. However, based on what Ive seen, Im of the view that 
Miss F suffered a loss of expectation because of the misrepresentation. Given that it isnt 
possible to add the colour changing LED lighting now, I think the fairest way to resolve this 
aspect of the complaint is to ask AA  to pay compensation for the disappointment caused to 
Miss F.
Putting things right
To put things right, Ald Automotive Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss F
Refund (pro rata) the deposit of £2,218.82
Refund 15% of all rental payments made by Miss F to reflect impaired use
Pay 8% simple interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay further £250 compensation in addition to the £500 compensation already offered (both 
sums to be paid by AA) 
Remove all adverse information from Miss Fs credit file in relation to the agreement  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Ald Automotive Limited must take the steps 
Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman