DRN-4242431
The complaint
Miss Js complaint is about a mortgage application she made to HSBC UK Bank Plc. She 
applied to increase the amount of her borrowing and attach a new interest rate product to the 
mortgage, but the mortgage could not progress because of what she believes were 
problems with HSBCs systems. 
In settlement of the complaint Miss J wants HSBC to provide her with a new mortgage of the 
amount it latterly agreed, but with the interest rate product she had originally wanted. 
Alternatively, she wants a substantial amount of financial compensation as she is in a worse 
position now than she would have been if the original application had gone through.
What happened
In the spring of 2018 Miss J took out a repayment mortgage with HSBC over 30 years. 
Attached to the mortgage was a fixed interest rate product, which had a term ending on 
31 May 2023.
In August 2022 Miss J decided she wanted to borrow additional funds over the remaining 
term of the mortgage to enable her to extend the term of the lease on her home. She didnt 
request advice and started an application for a homeowner loan online. She wanted to 
borrow approximately an additional £131,000 over the remaining term of the existing 
mortgage  25 years and 10 months.
There were issues with Miss J moving the application forward online. This involved Miss J 
calling several times. Following the application being submitted, she then contacted HSBC 
for help because she was having difficulty uploading documentation and giving approval for 
a credit check to be completed. During the latter conversation Miss J was told the valuation 
had come back in at a significantly lower figure than she had detailed in her application. 
The application was acknowledged by HSBC on 26 August 2022. A valuation of her property 
was done, and it was concluded due to the lease being short, it was worth less than Miss J 
had thought and which shed put in her application. Miss J was also asked to provide 
documentation, including employment contracts, pay slips and bank statements. She didnt 
do so immediately. However, following her doing so, the application was scored within 
HSBCs system, and it failed. Miss J was told on 13 September 2022 that her application 
was declined automatically by HSBCs system as it failed its scoring.
Following this it was suggested Miss J speak to one of HSBCs mortgage advisers, as some 
of the information she was providing was triggering the application to fail, and a mortgage 
adviser could hopefully assist. Miss J did so and a decision in principle was issued. The 
additional borrowing amount was reduced to approximately £92,000. In addition, a complete 
re-mortgage was recommended, over a term of just over two years longer. The interest rates 
available on fixed interest rate products were significantly higher by then and so Miss J didnt 
pursue the application. She complained about what had happened and that her application 
had been declined, but HSBC had been unable to explain why.
HSBC responded to the complaint in its letter of 12 October 2022. It confirmed that it was 
unable to progress her recent application because of missing employment information  the 
fixed term contract she had provided hadnt included an end date. HSBC explained in order 
for an application to be considered there had to be at least six months left of any such 
contract, and if Miss J could provide that evidence, it would be able to consider her most 
recent application. HSBC offered Miss J £50 for any distress or inconvenience she had 
experienced during the application process, but it otherwise didnt uphold her complaint. 
Miss J was not satisfied with HSBCs response and asked us to consider her complaint. 
When she did she explained the problems she had experienced with HSBCs online system 
with her first application, which had been declined on the basis of her failing a credit check. 
Miss J said this was because one of the credit reference agencies had incorrectly recorded 
her as not being registered to vote. She had then been told by HSBC to meet with a 
mortgage adviser and there had been further administrative issues with the application 
process. However, that application had been accepted, but the interest rate products 
available by then had considerably higher rates associated with them. Miss J said she was 
unable to accept the mortgage offered and feels she was treated with utter disrespect and 
HSBC purposely caused problems so that it could charge as much as possible in interest.
When HSBC provided its file relating to the complaint, it confirmed that it had found no 
evidence that there were system issues as Miss J had suggested. It also confirmed the 
application didnt succeed because Miss J had applied for a sum that took her borrowing 
over 95% of the value of her home, there was an issue with the remaining term on the lease, 
and the contract of employment she provided stated the end date was to be confirmed. In 
addition, HSBC confirmed the interest rate product Miss J had originally applied for was only 
available to consumers with a loan to value of less than 95% and so she could never have 
had that product with the application she had submitted.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She was satisfied the compensation payment offered was appropriate.
Miss J didnt accept the Investigators conclusions. She reiterated that there was nothing 
wrong with her credit score at the time of the application and she believes the application 
was declined because HSBCs system crashed while she was submitting the application. 
She also repeated her concerns about why there had been problems with the application 
and that it was deliberate so that HSBC could make more money from her.
The Investigator considered Miss Js comments and responded where appropriate, but she 
didnt change her mind about the outcome of the complaint. She said quite simply the 
application had not fitted with HSBCs lending criteria scoring. Miss J remained unhappy and 
stated that when she applied herself she had asked to re-mortgage, not just take additional 
lending, as she had wanted to fix a low interest rate on all her borrowing, not just the 
additional amount she wanted.
The Investigator provided some more information about the application Miss J had initially 
made and provided copies of documentation associated with it. This showed that Miss J had 
not applied to re-mortgage completely in August 2022, but rather had only applied for further 
borrowing. As Miss J continued to disagree, it was decided the complaint should be referred 
to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I would initially explain to Miss J that we have no regulatory function; thats the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA); nor are we a consumer protection body. Were an 
alternative dispute resolution body; an informal alternative to the courts for financial 
businesses and their customers to resolve their differences. We deal with individual disputes 
 when were able to  subject to rules laid down by the FCA (which are known as the DISP 
Rules). As such, while I note that Miss J has concerns that lenders were allowed to increase 
interest rates in 2022 and 2023 as they have, that is not a matter that falls within our remit, 
and I cant comment on it. 
I would also confirm at this stage, that while Miss J believes she applied for a re-mortgage in 
both August and September 2022, that is not the case. The documentation and other 
evidence from when she applied online in August 2022 is that she only applied for additional 
borrowing, and not a remortgage, which the telephone calls at the time indicate she was 
aware of. I havent seen anything that indicates HSBC was responsible for what was applied 
for, as it was not an advised application. That said, when Miss J spoke to a mortgage 
adviser in September 2022, a re-mortgage was proposed and illustrated to her. 
Miss J has questioned HSBC saying that it didnt have information about her employment. I 
think Miss J has misinterpreted what HSBC has said on this subject. It had the 
documentation she had provided it with, but that included a document that described itself as 
replacing previous terms on the contract. That document included a place for an end date for 
the contract to be included, but rather than giving a date, it said TBC  to be confirmed. As 
such, HSBC needed confirmation of what the end date of the contract, as potentially altered 
by this document, was. That is the information that was missing and meant the application 
couldnt have progressed, as HSBC requires contractors to have at least six months 
remaining on their contracts. 
I would also explain at this stage that Miss J is mistaken in her belief that it was a credit 
reference agency not having her recorded as being on the voters roll that caused the 
application to fail. When HSBC refers to scoring the application, it is not referring to running 
a credit check and obtaining Miss Js credit rating. Scoring a mortgage application involves 
more than just looking at a customers credit rating and so an application where the potential 
borrower has a perfect credit rating can still fail. In this case, it appears there was more than 
one issue that caused the score to be a fail  the amount Miss J wanted to borrow in relation 
to the value of the property (due to the remaining term of the lease) and the missing 
information about her employment contract. In the circumstances, I cant find that HSBC 
acted unreasonably or unfairly when it declined the initial application. 
At that point HSBC suggested Miss J go through an advised sale process. This cleared up 
one of the problems with the previous application by reducing the amount Miss J wanted to 
borrow so that the total borrowing fell within HSBCs acceptable loan-to-value range. The 
application type was also changed, which allowed a higher loan-to-value to be requested. 
Further information about Miss Js contract was also requested. Again, I dont consider that 
HSBC did anything wrong during this process. 
Miss J has highlighted that HSBCs systems caused her problems and delayed the initial 
application. I have listened to the telephone calls up to the point the application was made 
and those following the application until it was declined. It appears the issues Miss J 
experienced before the application was submitted, which I am satisfied she was aware had 
happened, were due to problems with her browser or her having not completed the online 
forms correctly. I cant find HSBC responsible for that. Following this, the only thing I can find 
might have been an issue was Miss J not being send a new link to upload additional 
information when HSBC asked for it. Having carefully considered the situation, I am satisfied 
the £50 HSBC offered Miss J for any inconvenience she suffered is sufficient.My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Miss J £50 to settle the complaint and 
I am satisfied this offer is fair in all the circumstances. As such, my final decision is that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £50 in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss J to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2024. 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman