DRN-3557313
The complaint
Ms M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) has increased the risk of her fund, 
resulting in poor investment performance.
What happened
In 2013, following redundancy, Ms M invested her life savings into Santanders Investment 
Income Portfolio Fund (now called Sterling Bond Income Portfolio), with the aim of achieving 
growth with her savings and receiving a monthly income.
In March 2021, Ms M noticed a fall in her investment value. Concerned, she contacted 
Santander. She was told the risk profile of her investment fund had changed from lower risk 
to lower medium risk. Unhappy with the this, Santander confirmed an investment adviser 
would be in contact to review Ms Ms financial circumstances and objectives, but that call 
didnt materialise. Meanwhile, Ms Ms investment continued to fall in value, so she 
complained.
Santander considered Ms Ms concerns. It accepted it had fallen short in its service when the 
promised call didnt occur and offered £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. But, 
with regards to the fund switching from lower to lower-medium risk, it said the decision to 
amend the risk wasnt as a result of any of changes being made to the fund by Santander, 
but because the risk to capital was slightly higher as a result of current market conditions.
Still unhappy with the situation, Ms M referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators had a look at what happened, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said there 
was nothing to suggest Santander had changed the asset allocation of the fund. Instead he 
found that Santander had simply changed the name, reassessed the existing fund based on 
the market conditions at the time and re-categorised the risk rating accordingly. 
His findings also noted that Santanders payment of £100 was fair in the circumstances and 
that it had completed a review of Ms Ms circumstances, advising her to invest in the 
Santander Max 30% Shares Income Portfolio based on her preference for lower risk. 
However, she continues to remain invested in the Sterling Bond Income Portfolio.
Ms M disagreed with the investigator citing her investment had dropped further in value. As 
both parties havent come to an agreement, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. I 
understand this will come as a disappointment to Ms M, but Ill explain my reasons why.
Ms M has suggested that Santander has invested her money in even more risky funds 
without her permission which has resulted in her losing money. I fully understand Ms Ms 
disappointment at the performance of her investment and why she might believe there had 
been a change to her investment given how it has performed. But I havent seen any 
evidence that Santander changed the composition of Ms Ms investment. In fact, it didnt 
have a mandate to make any changes on her behalf as it was a non-advised sale. Only 
Ms M could make such changes or authorise Santander to do them on her behalf.
Further, asides from periodic reviews requested by the investor, Santander wasnt advising 
so the actual decision on how to and where to invest rested with Ms M. Santander simply 
needed to ensure that it provided Ms M with all the relevant information she needed to make 
an informed choice around her investments. I found that it did here. Santander reviewed the 
fund and concluded that given the risk to capital losses was higher than it had been 
historically, it needed to amend the risk level to reflect the potential for greater loss. 
Whilst I appreciate Ms Ms frustration, Im mindful that it is the nature of risk-based funds that 
some lose value during certain periods. In light of all the evidence, Im not persuaded 
Santander has done anything wrong in the circumstances, so it follows that I dont uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman