DRN-2896187
The complaint
Mr G complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) havent refunded a 
payment he made for a holiday.
Mr G is represented in this complaint, but for ease Ill refer to Mr G throughout.  
What happened
In July 2017, Mr G booked a three day holiday for himself and his family for December 2018. 
He used his M&S credit card to pay the deposit of £1,537.50. The total cost was £12,610 for 
10 people.
Their outbound flight was due to depart in the early morning so that they had the whole 
afternoon and evening at their destination. Unfortunately, on the day of their departure, the 
outbound flight was delayed as a result of drone sightings at the airport.
Mr G says he contacted the travel agent for assistance, who he says offered to arrange an 
alternative flight. He says that he later found out that the agent ought to have told him that he 
had the right to cancel the holiday booking and get a full refund. He says had he been told 
this, he wouldnt have agreed to the alternative flight.
The alternative flight departed from a different airport. The travel agent arranged for Mr G 
and his family to be transported to the other airport. The alternative flight departed around 14 
hours later than their original flight had been scheduled for. Due to the delay, they arrived at 
their destination in the middle of the night and therefore missed a day of their three-day 
break, which included missing several arrival day activities around the resort theyd been 
looking forward to. Mr G says they had originally been scheduled to arrive at the resort at 
around midday (local time), but instead arrived at 2am the next day.
Mr G said not only did they miss the whole of their first day, the second (and only full day) 
was spoiled as everyone was tired. He said they had to take time out of their only full day to 
arrange special clothing for their stay, which for 10 people took some time. He says this was 
something which should have been completed on their arrival. Theyd also paid for private 
catering which they arrived too late to benefit from on their first day. 
Mr G complained to the travel agent and tour operator, claiming compensation under the 
Package Travel, Package Holidays and Package Tours Regulations 1992 (PTR). The 
travel agent didnt agree to any refund. It said that the delays due to the drone sightings 
were unexpected and extraordinary circumstances and it therefore didnt have any liability to 
provide a refund. Mr G therefore raised a claim with M&S under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (S75).
M&S rejected the claim. It said the problems at the airport were beyond the travel agents 
control so Mr G didnt have a right to any refund or compensation under the PTR. It said that 
because the travel agent had arranged for alternative flights and Mr G had still been able to 
go on the holiday there wasnt any breach of contract that M&S might be jointly liable for. 
I sent Mr G and M&S my provisional decision on 17 May 2021. I explained why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld. I said:
The effect of S75 is that if Mr G has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation 
against the travel agent, he can bring a like claim against M&S, providing certain conditions 
are met. For completeness, Im satisfied those conditions are met here. My role is to decide 
whether I think M&S has acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with Mr Gs S75 claim. In 
doing so, Ive taken into account what the relevant law says such as S75 and the PTR.
It isnt in dispute that Mr G bought a package holiday, and for completeness Im also 
satisfied it was a package holiday for the purposes of the PTR. This is because it was a 
prearranged combination of transport and overnight accommodation sold at an inclusive 
price.
Mr G paid the travel agent for the package holiday. While the package holiday was provided 
by a different company and a series of different suppliers, the PTRs operate so as to place 
liability for the performance of the travel services included in a package on the organiser, 
irrespective of whether the travel services are performed by third parties.
Both the travel agent and M&S have largely relied on Section 15 (2) (c) (ii) of the PTR in 
order to explain why Mr G isnt entitled to any refund. Section 15 sets out the following:
(1) The other party to the contract is liable to the consumer for the proper 
performance of the obligations under the contract, irrespective of whether such 
obligations are to be performed by that other party or by other suppliers of services 
but this shall not affect any remedy or right of action which that other party may have 
against those other suppliers of services.
(2) The other party to the contract is liable to the consumer for any damage caused 
to him by the failure to perform the contract or the improper performance of the 
contract unless the failure or the improper performance is due neither to any fault of 
that other party nor to that of another supplier of services, because
(c)such failures are due to
(i)unusual and unforeseeable circumstances beyond the control of the 
party by whom this exception is pleaded, the consequences of which 
could not have been avoided even if all due care had been exercised
The travel agents terms and conditions also set out a similar exclusion, although worded 
differently. It says it wont be responsible for any losses as a result of any event which is 
outside of our reasonable control.
The travel agent and M&S have sought to rely on S15 and the terms and conditions by 
saying that the drone sightings at the airport on the day of departure were outside of the 
travel agents reasonable control. Theyve also said it was an unusual and unforeseeable 
circumstance.
However, while S15 does have some relevance, it applies in circumstances where the 
consumer has a claim for damages as a result of improper performance of a contract. 
I accept that S15 does allow some limitation to damages where the contract does not 
conform and where the failure is due to, for example, unusual or unforeseeable 
circumstances.
I think S14 is also relevant. It sets out the following:
(1) The terms set out in paragraphs (2) and (3) below are implied in every contract 
and apply where, after departure, a significant proportion of the services contracted for is not provided or the organiser becomes aware that he will be unable to procure 
a significant proportion of the services to be provided.
(2) The organiser will make suitable alternative arrangements, at no extra cost to the 
consumer, for the continuation of the package and will, where appropriate, 
compensate the consumer for the difference between the services to be supplied 
under the contract and those supplied.
(3) If it is impossible to make arrangements as described in paragraph (2), or these 
are not accepted by the consumer for good reasons, the organiser will, where 
appropriate, provide the consumer with equivalent transport back to the place of 
departure or to another place to which the consumer has agreed and will, where 
appropriate, compensate the consumer.
The effect of S14 is that if Mr G didnt receive a significant proportion of the services he 
contracted for, the travel agent will compensate him the cost of the parts he didnt receive, if 
it is unable to fulfil the contract. Notably, S14 does not contain a limitation for when the 
failure is due to unusual or unforeseeable circumstances.
While I note the travel agent did make alternative arrangements for travel at no extra cost, it 
is still the case that Mr G didnt receive a significant proportion of the services that were to 
be supplied under the contract.
The holiday Mr G purchased comprised of a three day and two night stay, with upgraded 
accommodation including a host to cook and clean. Day one of the break  according to the 
brochure  was due to contain familiarisation with the resort and preparation for the second 
day, including fitting of the special clothing. It also mentions wildlife spotting, photo 
opportunities and lists some resort activities that could be undertaken as well as a privately 
catered meal.
Day two consisted of several pre-booked activities as well as another privately catered meal 
in the evening. The final day included further opportunities for resort activities. However, as 
Mr Gs return flight was booked for around 1pm local time, his time to enjoy those activities 
will have been limited on the final day as they would understandably need to prepare for 
travelling home.
When Mr Gs outbound flight was delayed, he effectively missed out on day 1 as he arrived 
after midnight. Its clear that he and his family needed to be fitted for their special clothing 
before they could enjoy the resort activities, and this wouldnt have been possible until the 
morning of day 2. This further set back will have limited their time to enjoy the pre-booked 
activities on day 2.
Taking into account the short duration of the overall holiday, I think its reasonable to say that 
by missing the entire first day and having the morning of his second day interrupted, he 
missed out on a significant proportion of his holiday and crucially, a significant proportion of 
the services he was contracted to receive.
S14 of the PTR implies terms into the contract Mr G had with the travel agent. As Ive said 
above, it did arrange alternative transport at no additional cost. However, it seems to me that 
after their departure, the travel agent was unable or unwilling to extend Mr Gs holiday for the 
duration that he had originally booked, and it didnt ensure he received all the services he 
had paid for. S14 sets out that Mr G was therefore entitled to compensation for the 
diminution in value of the proportion of the services he didnt receive. As he didnt receive 
this, Im satisfied there has been a breach of contract.
Im mindful that The Civil Aviation Authority said it considered the event to be an 
extraordinary circumstance. In such circumstances airlines are not obliged to pay financial compensation to passengers affected by the disruption. However, this only applied to 
airlines and their liability to their passengers.
While clearly the airline was supplying Mr G with services, it did so under the contract he had 
with the travel agent. As Ive already set out, the travel agent was required, by virtue of the 
implied terms in S14 to either provide Mr G with the services hed missed out on or provide 
him with proportionate compensation for the parts it couldnt provide. This is irrespective of 
the reason it couldnt provide the services.
Because I think S14 applies in the circumstances here, I dont need to make a determination 
on whether the drone strikes were unusual or unforeseeable as it is immaterial to whether 
Mr G was entitled to compensation for the diminution in value of the services he didnt 
receive.
It could of course be argued that S15 of the PTR may very well have limited Mr Gs ability to 
claim any other damages in relation to the improper performance of the contract against the 
travel agent, such as compensation for the delays or additional costs he might have incurred 
due to the improper performance. However, S15 doesnt cancel out the obligations under 
S14.
Its not clear whether the travel agents terms and conditions try to circumvent some of the 
implied terms within the PTR. It appears to seek to limit its liability in paying compensation in 
situations which are beyond our control known as force majeure. While this could be in 
reference to its liability under S15, I dont think its likely that the travel agent could 
successfully argue that it is able to contract out the implied terms of S14 of the PTR.
However, for completeness, even if it could, I think its likely the term would be considered 
unfair under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. I say this because it attempts to contract out 
important consumer rights within the small print of the contract. In doing so, it diminishes 
Mr Gs protections without giving him anything in return. Further, it seems that in not being 
able to provide many of the services Mr G had paid for, the travel agent (and its suppliers) 
didnt incur the same costs as it would have done had Mr G been able to enjoy those 
services as intended. It therefore seems unfair for it to retain the same fee for a significantly 
different holiday.
As Im satisfied there has been a breach of contract by the travel agent, I think its fair and 
reasonable that M&S puts things right.
Im aware that Mr G says he wouldnt have gone on the holiday at all if hed been correctly 
informed of his statutory rights when the original flights were delayed. However, as Mr G did 
go on the holiday and received some benefit of it, I dont think it would be reasonable to say 
he receives a full refund. I also have to be mindful of the proportion of the holiday and 
services he did receive.
Its difficult to quantify exactly what proportion Mr G did and didnt receive and how much 
those services would have cost. This is because the package holiday was sold at an 
inclusive price and no breakdown of the costs for the individual parts of the holiday have 
been provided. There isnt therefore an exact formula for working out what fair redress ought 
to be.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, Ive taken into consideration that the costs of the 
flights will have taken up a proportion of the overall price, and although delayed, these were 
provided. Mr G would also have received transfers to and from the accommodation as well 
as the accommodation itself, which again would have taken up a proportion of the holiday 
cost.In terms of the activities, day 1 was substantially longer than day 3 given the original travel 
times and listed activities that could be accommodated in that time. Further, their ability to 
complete activities on day 2 will have been diminished due to having to arrange suitable 
clothing.
I note too that Mr G paid extra to have private catering in their accommodation for both 
nights. They were only able to enjoy this service for one night given how late they arrived at 
the resort on their arrival day. So, I think overall, its reasonable to conclude the number of 
activities/additional services they were able to complete will have been around half of what 
was originally planned (excluding flights, transfers and accommodation).
The overall price of the holiday was £12,610. Taking everything into account, I think it would 
be fair for Mr G to receive a refund of £4,500 to represent the diminution in value of the 
services he didnt receive. M&S should also add 8% simple interest per year on this refund 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement to account for the fact Mr G has been 
deprived of the use of this money.
I understand Mr G feels very strongly about the disappointment that was caused for what he 
has described as a once in a lifetime holiday. However, I dont think it would be fair to say 
M&S ought to compensate him anything in addition to what he is entitled to under the breach 
of contract by the travel agent and what is set out in S14 of the PTR.
Mr G accepted my provisional decision, but M&S didnt reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence to provide, Ive seen no reason to 
reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. For the reasons 
I set out previously, I dont think M&S dealt with Mr Gs S75 claim fairly. It therefore needs to 
put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc to:
Refund Mr G £4,500, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date he made the 
payment to the date of settlement.
If M&S considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award it should 
provide Mr G with a certificate showing how much it has deducted, so that he can reclaim 
that amount, if he is eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman