DRN-3402866
The complaint
Ms O complains that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd (Berkshire) should 
pay her claim on her motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Berkshire, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Berkshire 
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car first registered in 2017. In 2018, 
Ms O acquired the car subject to a finance agreement.
From March 2021, Ms O had the car insured on a policy under which Berkshire was 
responsible for dealing with any claim. 
The policy covered Ms O as policyholder. It didnt cover her partner as a named driver. 
The policy was comprehensive. It included cover for the risk of theft of the car, subject to a 
policy excess. 
Ms O and her partner reported that in late October 2021, he had parked the car to take her 
dog for a walk, but someone stole the car.
In December 2020, Berkshire turned down Ms Os claim on the grounds that her partner 
hadnt been covered to drive the car. 
In January 2022, Ms O complained to Berkshire that it should pay the claim. Berkshire wrote 
a final response turning down the complaint. Ms O brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Berkshire had declined the claim fairly and reasonably. 
Ms O disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Her partner says, in summary, that:
It shouldn't matter who was using the car. 
The car was covered under insurance and it was stolen. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms O took out the policy, the broker produced a statement of fact document. It 
included the following:
Drivers 1
Main User [Ms O]
The broker also produced a policy schedule. It included the following:
WHO IS INSURED AND LIMITATIONS ON USE OF THE VEHICLE
This insurance covers only the vehicle, drivers and use as defined in the Road Traffic 
Act Certificate of Motor Insurance issued hereunder
The broker also produced a certificate of motor insurance. It included the following:
Persons or classes of persons entitled to drive:
[Ms O]
Provided that the person driving holds a licence to drive the vehicle or has held and 
is not disqualified from holding or obtaining such a licence.
The Policyholder may also drive a Motor Car not belonging to him/her and not hired 
under a hire purchase agreement.
So the policy didnt cover Ms Os partner to drive the car. I wouldnt expect the policy to 
cover theft of the car during a trip when he was driving.
Indeed, the policy also contained a general exception as follows:
Section 13 General exceptions
These general exceptions apply to all sections of the policy.
13.1 Use of the Vehicle
The insurer will not cover any injury, loss or damage caused while your car is:
 being driven or used by anyone who is not shown on your Certificate of Motor
Insurance as entitled to drive;
The loss occurred while the car was being driven or used by Ms Os partner, who wasnt 
shown on her certificate of motor insurance as entitled to drive. 
So the policy didnt cover the circumstances of the theft.
Whilst I understand the scale of Ms Os loss, I dont consider that Berkshire treated Ms O 
unfairly by declining her claim. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Berkshire to pay the 
claim or to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022. 
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman