DRN-2415512
The complaint
Mr F complains that N26 Bank GmbH has unfairly registered a marker at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database.
What happened
Mr F contacted N26 Bank after his account at a different financial business was closed. He 
found that N26 Bank had registered the CIFAS marker. Mr F told it that he didnt have an 
account with it and that he wasnt involved in fraud.
N26 Bank said it wouldnt be removing the marker. It had a copy of his genuine identification 
provided at the time of opening the account in January 2019. It set out the numerous reports 
of fraud about payments that had been credited into the account. And it said it wrote to Mr F 
in February 2019 at the email account he is still using saying that his account would be 
closed due to the way it had been operated and didnt then receive any response. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr F had changed his 
version of events. He now said he did open the account. He said that he had been told that 
the transactions would be business ones and that he would get half of any money that was 
made. He later said to this service that hed been manipulated into opening the account by 
others. He gave the card and online log in details to an individual but says he didnt give his 
PIN and that it could be obtained online. So, he didnt make the withdrawals. Mr F said that 
he couldnt log on to online banking and although he knew something was wrong didnt have 
a number to contact N26 Bank. He provided screenshots of messages with the person from 
the group that he knew.
Our investigator noted that these screenshots werent dated. But they showed that from the 
start Mr F had concerns about whether his account would be used in a legitimate way. Mr F 
couldnt say what he had done to satisfy himself that these were genuine payments He had 
no other evidence to show he wasnt involved and didnt receive benefit from this money. 
N26 Bank had grounds to apply a CIFAS marker.
Mr F didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, N26 Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Our investigator has set out above that Mr F hasnt given a consistent explanation of what 
happened. He originally tried to deny that he opened the account. He now says that he did 
open it with an expectation of financial reward. The messages hes sent also show that from 
the outset he had concerns that the payments werent legal. And in his complaint form to this 
service he says
I would like to apologise for being so stupid and putting my Financial freedom at risk for fast 
money and I hope I can be forgiven or I could potentially pay back a fee.
Im afraid I think it most likely Mr F had reason to believe that this money wasnt legitimate 
from the outset. He says he didnt operate the account but hes no evidence to support this. 
And on his version of events he knowingly allowed individuals to continue to use his account. 
From what he says hed provided them with sufficient security information so that it could be 
accessed. Under the terms and conditions of the account he should have kept all this 
confidential. He also didnt do anything about this at the time and I find was a witting 
participant in what happened. And when he did report this he wasnt open about what 
happened and tried to conceal he had opened the account.
Having reviewed Mr Fs account of events and the evidence N26 Bank has provided, Im 
satisfied that N26 Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr F opened the account and received fraudulent funds and didnt report this to N26 
Bank at the time.
- He was in control of who had the benefit of this money.
- N26 Bank had grounds to believe that Mr F had facilitated the dispersal of 
fraudulently obtained funds based on the evidence it had.
I appreciate Mr F regrets what he did now, and I know he is going to be disappointed when I 
say that I dont have a reasonable basis to require N26 Bank to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman