DRN-1720084
The complaint
Mr W complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited recorded invoices it received for medical 
treatment, even though he didnt make a claim under his private medical insurance policy.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
AXA has confirmed to Mr W that the invoices it received were not dealt with as 
claims, which was Mr Ws main concern. 
Although AXA has recorded the invoices as being received on its system, it has also 
marked them as being cancelled. AXA marked the invoices as cancelled when it 
learnt that they had been sent in error. I think that was appropriate. AXA has 
confirmed to this service that the invoices have not been recorded on its claims 
system, and instead have been recorded on a separate system that records financial 
information.
I think AXA couldve made the above clearer to Mr W. It told Mr W in its final 
response letter that it needs to keep records of claims, when it had accepted that 
there had been no claims. Nevertheless, I dont think Mr W has been impacted by 
this, as he was aware that the invoices hadnt been dealt with as claims.
Although Mr W doesnt think that AXA should assume all invoices it receives are 
being submitted as claims, its typical for private medical insurers to work this way. I 
see nothing wrong with this. If an insurer receives an invoice for treatment that it 
hasnt authorised, then presumably that invoice wouldnt be paid, and the consumer 
would be notified of this. If it transpired that the invoice had been sent in error (which 
is what happened here), then the customer could then make the insurer aware of 
this, and the claim can be removed.
Mr W thinks AXA should remove all records of the invoices from its system, since 
they were sent in error. AXA says that since it received the invoices from the 
healthcare provider and wrote to that provider in response, it has a legitimate reason 
to keep the information for audit purposes. It also says it needs to keep a record in 
case there are any queries from the healthcare provider in the future about the 
invoices. I think AXA makes reasonable points here, though I recognise that Mr W 
doesnt agree.
I therefore dont require AXA to remove the invoices from its records. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman