DRN-3468471
The complaint
Mrs M complained because Revolut Ltd refused to refund her for transactions which she 
said she didnt make.
What happened
On 9 November 2021, Mrs M contacted Revolut. She said that shed given her card details 
over the phone to make a purchase to an online seller on 5 November, but her details had 
then been used for unauthorised transactions.
On Mrs Ms Revolut account, there was a debit for £100 for a deposit for the item Mrs M had 
wanted to buy, but she didnt go ahead with the full purchase and the seller said hed refund 
her. On 9 November, there were two debits to a food retailer, one for £20 and the other for 
£2.75. Mrs M asked Revolut to dispute all three payments.
Revolut initiated a chargeback for the £100 payment, and that doesnt form part of this 
complaint. But it refused to refund Mrs M for the two debits totalling £22.75. These had been 
contactless payments, and in the Chat, Revolut said that as Mrs M still had her card, it 
believed only she could have made them. Mrs M said it was impossible as shed been in a 
different part of the country from where the payments had been made. The adviser replied 
that as Mrs M didnt recall making the payments, shed need to wait to see whether the 
transactions were completed or reversed.
On 19 November, Mrs M tried again with Revoluts Chat, and was given chargeback forms to 
complete. Revolut refused her claim for the two debits totalling £22.75. Mrs M said it was 
physically impossible for her to have carried out the transactions, which had taken place a 
long way from where shed been that day, and she said that another bank, which Ill call 
bank A, had refunded her for similar transactions the same day without a problem. She 
complained.
In its final response, Revolut refused to refund Mrs M. It said that no traces of fraudulent 
activity had been found, and the transactions hadnt been out of character. It said that the 
rules about chargeback claims were set by the card scheme. And it also said that Revoluts 
own rules about refunds were set out in section 26 of the terms and conditions  but Mrs Ms 
claim didnt meet those requirements.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator contacted bank A, which Mrs M had said had provided her with an 
immediate refund for a very similar transaction. Mrs M said that shed initially given the 
online seller the details of her account with bank A, but when she was told that payment 
wouldnt go through, shed then given the seller her Revolut account. On Mrs Rs account 
with bank A, there had also been a £20 debit to the same food retailer on 9 November. Bank 
A refunded Mrs M.
But the investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Revolut. She looked at Revoluts 
terms and conditions, which set out the following:
Section 22:
If you think someone has stolen from your account, let us know as soon as possible
through the Revolut app (and no later than 13 months after the money was taken).
We'll pay the money back into your account if:
- you couldn't have known that your security details or Revolut Card were at r risk 
of being misused;
- the payment was taken after you told us that someone knew your security details or 
your Revolut Card was lost or stolen, or we didn't give you a way to tell us about this
Section 26:
Your refund rights for Revolut Card payments
You can ask us to refund an amount taken from your account if all of the following
apply:
1. you agreed that a payment could be taken, but didn't agree the actual amount of
the payment.
2. the amount taken is more than you reasonably expected in all the circumstances
(including your spending pattern);
3. the person you paid is in the EEA.
4. you didn't authorise the payment directly with us;
5. we and the person you paid did not give you any information about the payment
during the four weeks before it was taken; and
6. you ask us for the refund within eight weeks of the payment being taken from your
account.
Our investigator noted that Mrs M had given the online seller her card details on 5 
November, and had told Revolut about the disputed transactions when they happened on 9 
November. And not all of the six points above applied in Mrs Ms case. So the investigator 
considered Revolut acted in line with its terms and conditions, and didnt need to refund her.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied. She said that shed been in a different part of the country from where 
the transactions had taken place. As soon as shed had notification of them, shed gone to a 
branch of her other bank, to report the problem  and she said this should prove that shed 
been a long way from where the disputed transactions had taken place. She also sent 
copies of online messages from the online seller whom she believed was the fraudster. Mrs 
M said she knew shed given her card details to that person, but it had been in good faith for 
a deposit. She asked if the bank branch could be contacted to see whether they 
remembered her. And she said surely it wasnt right that someone else could use her card 
details.
Our investigator said that the issue wasnt Mrs Ms whereabouts on 9 November 2021. She 
said it was about whether Revolut had acted fairly and reasonably in line with its terms and 
conditions, and she thought it had.
Mrs M asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, because Id come to the same conclusion 
as the investigator, but for different reasons. So I issued a provisional decision, in order that 
both sides could make any additional comments if they wished, before the final decision. 
Before issuing my provisional decision, I considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in November 2021 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Revolut) must show the 
transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Revolut has provided the 
authentication for both disputed transactions. Both record, among other things, that the 
cardholder was present  in other words, it wasnt a distance contract. Importantly, the 
transaction code for both shows that they were carried out as contactless transactions.    
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence. Ive considered authorisation below.
Whether Mrs M was liable for the disputed payments
In the provisional decision, I recognised that Mrs M said that she gave her card details to the 
person she suspects of the fraud, in good faith. I accepted that, and I didnt consider giving 
her card details for a payment counted as gross negligence. Although giving card details 
over the phone always carries an element of risk, I accepted that Mrs M wouldnt have 
known that there might be a problem with this individual until the transactions of 9 
November. And I saw no evidence to indicate that this individual was, in fact, responsible for 
the disputed transactions.
I also noted that Revolut said that Mrs M didnt meet the requirements for a chargeback to 
be submitted on her behalf. Chargeback rules are specific, and are set by the card schemes, 
not by banks. An example is where goods arent received  like Mrs Ms other claim for a 
refund of the £100 deposit, which doesnt form part of this complaint. But allegations that an 
individual may have fraudulently used details supplied by phone, wouldnt fall into the 
chargeback scheme. So while Revolut was right to say that chargebacks didnt fit this 
particular dispute, it still had an obligation to act fairly and reasonably, and in line with the 
requirements of the Payment Services Regulations. This means that its important whether 
or not Mrs M authorised the transactions, either herself, or by someone known to her using 
her card.
What I considered was key to the outcome here was that the two disputed transactions were 
both carried out on a contactless basis. Mrs M hadnt reported her card lost or stolen, and 
she said she still had it. Revoluts evidence shows that when the card was used for these 
two disputed transactions, the machine read the individual chip that was in the card.
With this in mind, and as Mrs M said that she had the card at the time, it was difficult for me 
to reach any conclusion here other than that it was Mrs M who made these payments. I took 
on board what Mrs M had said, but there was no evidence to suggest a third party unknown 
to Mrs M carried out the transactions. I added that in any event, I didnt think its likely that 
someone unknown to Mrs M would have taken the trouble to try and replicate the complex 
technology behind a cards chip to make transactions for such relatively small amounts here.I recognised that bank A did refund Mrs M for the £20 transaction she disputed with that 
bank, even though that, too, was contactless. But what I had to decide was whether Revolut 
acted fairly and reasonably in the individual circumstances of this complaint, and bank As 
actions didnt affect my decision about that.
I thought about Mrs Ms comments that on 9 November 2021, she was a long way from 
where the transactions took place. She hadnt been able to provide evidence of this, other 
than suggesting that staff in the other banks branch might be able to remember her going in. 
But I thought that was always unlikely, in a busy branch, and it was even more unlikely at the 
time of my provisional decision, some months down the line. It would also be extremely 
unlikely that CCTV would be kept for that length of time. But even if someone at the branch 
had been able to confirm that Mrs M had gone into the branch on 9 November, it didnt prove 
that Mrs M didnt, for example, let another person borrow her card, or that someone 
borrowed it and returned it without Mrs M being aware. And under neither of these scenarios 
would Revolut be liable under the Payment Services Regulations, because customers have 
a duty to keep their details secure.
I realised this wouldnt be welcome news for Mrs M, and that she felt strongly about these 
transactions. But I couldnt see a way around the fact that the computer evidence shows that 
the genuine card and chip were used for the transactions. In these circumstances, Revolut 
didnt have any obligation to refund Mrs M. So my provisional decision was that I didnt 
intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mrs M, or Revolut, replied to my provisional decision within the timescales set. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither side replied to the provisional decision, I consider my 
provisional decision was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman