DRN-3319245
The complaint
Mr M complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard and their failure to 
prevent him from using his credit card for gambling transactions.
What happened
Mr M held a credit card with Barclays, which from June 2015 had a credit limit of £4,300 with 
a cash limit of £1,250.
In 2017, Mr M experienced financial difficulties which Barclays were made aware of. This led 
to a suspension of his account. But following Mr Ms request, his more recent payment 
history and in response to a complaint he raised, Barclays re-instated the account the 
account in early 2018.
In August 2019, Mr M utilised the accounts cash limit to make gambling transactions on the 
account. And this meant Mr M then struggled to meet the minimum monthly repayment on 
the account. Mr M was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr M didnt think Barclays had acted reasonably by allowing him to use his account to 
gamble. He thought Barclays shouldve stopped the payments from going through as they 
wouldve been aware in 2017 that he was listed as vulnerable. And he thought they 
shouldve recognised the transactions as unusual activity on his account, as they were made 
in a short space of time. So, he wanted Barclays to refund any interest and charges that had 
been applied to his account that related to these transactions and to be compensated for the 
upset hed been caused. 
Barclays responded and didnt agree. They didnt think they were made aware Mr M was 
suffering from a gambling addiction. And they explained that at the time Mr M made the 
transactions, credit cards were able to be used for these kinds of transactions. They advised 
as Mr M had used the card for these types of transactions before, they didnt think there was 
anything to suggest the transactions should be blocked. And so, they didnt think theyd 
acted unfairly or that they needed to do anything more. Mr M remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
While the complaint was with our service, Mr M made several comments and raised several 
points about the service Barclays provided and the issues he wanted to be considered. Our 
investigator considered these when providing their outcome. And having done so, they didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
They explained they were unable to look into the affordability of the account, the interest and 
charges applied to it and the measures Barclays took to protect the account when Mr M 
made them aware of the difficulties he faced in 2017 as our service had already considered 
these under another complaint reference. So, instead, they explained their view focused on 
whether Barclays acted fairly when allowing Mr M to use his account for gambling 
transactions in 2019. And they also considered Mr Ms unhappiness that Barclays didnt 
review his account and reduce his credit limit sooner, and the actions Barclays have taken to 
arrange for the account to be repaid. And having done so, they thought Barclays had acted 
fairly and so, didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. Although Barclays wasnt made aware of his gambling addiction, he 
thought they were aware of his inability to manage his finances due to his mental health. And 
he thought the gambling transactions represented unusual activity on his account, so he 
thought Barclays shouldve stopped the transactions before they went through. Mr M also 
referenced his age and what a fair credit limit should be in comparison to that and he 
maintained his belief his account and its limit shouldve been reviewed sooner. 
Our investigator responded explaining their review remained unchanged, responding to the 
main points Mr M raised. And Mr M responded raising further points about why Barclays re-
instated his card in early 2018 and why no affordability checks were undertaken.
Our investigator explained as the card was reinstated with the same limit, no affordability 
checks were required at that time. And they explained Barclays issued a final response 
regarding the actual card suspension in 2018, so this couldnt be considered by our service 
as it wasnt referred to us within six months of that response. And they reiterated again that 
the way the card was managed after 2017, and the affordability of it, had already been 
looked at by our service. Mr M remained unhappy with this response, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome. I want to reassure Mr M Ive considered all the points and comments hes made 
even though some of these may not have been noted within the decision.
Before I explain how Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to set out 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. Ive seen our service has investigated Mr Ms 
complaints about the cards affordability and so the limit Mr M was given, the interest and 
charges applied to the account and the safeguarding measures Barclays put in place in 2017 
under a separate complaint reference. Because of this, Im unable to consider these points 
further.
Ive also seen under this complaint reference, we considered Barclays decision to suspend 
Mr Ms account in 2017. And we commented on Barclays decision to reinstate the card as 
part of their complaint response. So, as our service considered the accounts affordability, 
and the reinstatement was commented upon, Im unable to comment on the affordability of 
the account after the card was reinstated. 
So, instead, Ive focused on the new issues Mr M raised with Barclays, primarily the fact they 
allowed Mr M to spend a significant amount of his credit limit on gambling transactions. And 
his belief theyve failed to work with him to agree a reasonable repayment plan. Ive also 
thought about whether Barclays shouldve reviewed the account sooner to reduce the credit 
limit, which Mr M thinks they shouldve done.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mr M. Its clear Mr M made 
several gambling transactions on his card in August 2019, which increased his outstanding 
balance and so, the minimum monthly payment hed have to make. And I understand Mr M 
has struggled to meet this monthly payment, which I can appreciate wouldve been both worrying and upsetting. As Barclays provided the card to Mr M, I can understand why Mr M 
would feel as though they were responsible for his situation as they had a duty to protect 
customers and their accounts.
But for me to say Barclays have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied that they 
shouldve been reasonably aware of Mr Ms gambling addiction and so, the danger that 
allowing those transactions posed to Mr Ms mental health and his financial situation. And 
that they failed to take reasonable action despite this awareness. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
I think its important to note that Mr M has accepted he didnt make Barclays aware he was 
suffering with a gambling addiction. This is not to say I think Mr M has done something 
wrong here, as I recognise addiction is a mental illness and it can impact people in different 
ways, and this can make discussing the problem difficult. But when considering the 
complaint about Barclays, I must take into consideration the information Barclays had 
available to them, and were aware of, at the time as were an impartial, independent service 
that must act fairly towards both parties.
As Barclays werent aware of Mr Ms gambling addiction, I wouldnt expect them to see a 
gambling transaction and automatically assume it should be blocked. When Mr M made the 
transactions, gambling transactions were authorised to be made using credit card accounts. 
It wasnt until April 2020 that credit cards were no longer permitted to be used for gambling 
purposes. So, I dont think a gambling transaction itself showing on Mr Ms account wouldve 
necessarily been a cause for concern for Barclays.
While I do appreciate Mr M made a series of gambling transactions in a short amount of time 
that accumulated to a significant amount, I dont think this meant Barclays had a duty to stop 
these payments from going through. I can see Mr Ms account had been cleared in the 
months before he made the transactions, which wouldve suggested to Barclays that he was 
in a healthy financial position. And in the year before, Mr M had asked for the card to be 
reinstated as hed found new employment and had shown he was able to maintain the 
account and its minimum payments. While I know it was Mr Ms family that cleared this 
balance, I dont think Barclays couldve known this. And when Mr M used the card to make 
the gambling transactions, I can see around the same time he used the card for other 
purchases, such as shopping and the payment of insurance policies. 
So, from the information Barclays had available to them, I dont think it showed Mr M was 
using the card in a way that required them to intervene. Mr M was able to use the card as he 
wished and its standard industry practice for lenders to assume a customer will utilise the full 
credit limit and there are no set restrictions on how they are able to spend that. Because of 
the above, and the fact Barclays werent made aware of Mr Ms gambling addiction, I dont 
think Im able to say they acted unfairly on this occasion.
Im recognise Mr M wont agree with this. And I recognise Mr M thinks Barclays were made 
aware of his vulnerability, and his inability to manage his finances in 2017. Ive looked at the 
information both Mr M and Barclays have provided me, which does show Mr M struggled 
financially in 2017 and I think its clear his mental health suffered because of this. But this 
vulnerability was recorded a significant amount of time before Mr M made the gambling 
transactions. And during the period between the vulnerability being recorded, and the 
transactions being made, Mr M had told Barclays his situation had improved as hed found 
new employment. And hed maintained his account well, making the monthly repayments on 
the account and reducing the outstanding balance, before clearing it altogether. So, I dont 
think Barclays acted unfairly when allowing the transactions based on Mr Ms more recent 
use of the account and information hed provided them, rather than the vulnerability and 
financial difficulties that were noted years previously.Mr M has also referred to the fact Barclays have since reviewed his account and reduced his 
credit limit. And he feels they shouldve done this sooner and if they had, he wouldnt have 
been able to accrue the amount of debt he has which hes struggled to repay. But there 
arent a set amount of times a lender needs to review a customers account. And any 
reduction in credit limit will be based on several factors, which can change depending on the 
accounts position from one moment in time to another. Between Mr M asking Barclays to 
reinstate his account, and the date of the gambling transactions, I can see Mr M maintained 
payments to the account which reduced his balance, eventually to zero. So, I dont think 
there was any information to suggest to Barclays that his limit should be reduced based on 
his account maintenance. 
I recognise Barclays also use information shown through credit reference agencies to 
consider credit limits but again, the information shown on these reports can change each 
month. So, as its a fluid process thats dependent on several factors, Im unable to say that 
Barclays have acted unfairly by not reducing the credit limit when Mr M thinks they shouldve 
done. But Im glad to see they have done since, which I think shows Barclays attempting to 
protect Mr M from entering into further debt.
And finally, while Im unable to comment on the affordability of the account, Im aware Mr M 
is unhappy that the account was reinstated at all in 2018. I want to clarify to Mr M that as the 
account was re-opened, it would not be classed as a new lending application. So, Barclays 
had no obligation to complete additional affordability checks as these wouldve been 
completed at the time the account was opened. The guidance on this did change in 
September 2020 but as the re-opening was before this date, I cant say Barclays did 
anything wrong by not completing further additional checks. But what I can say is I can see 
Mr M emailed Barclays on 7 January 2018 explaining hed started new employment in June 
2017 and had maintained his account on the premise the account would be reinstated. So, 
Barclays were given assurance by Mr M that he was able to afford the account and wanted 
to make use of it. And I dont think they were unfair to act on the information and instructions 
provided by Mr M. 
Im aware Mr M has since asked Barclays to stop applying interest to the account so hes 
able to make monthly repayments that will decrease the balance. I can see the account is 
suspended, to prevent any further spending. Barclays have asked Mr M to speak to the 
relevant department to arrange a repayment plan, but I cant see Mr M has done so. While I 
would expect Barclays to act positively and sympathetically to Mr Ms situation, I also think 
Mr M has a responsibility to engage with Barclays and follow the process theyve set out. 
In this situation, I think Barclays have taken action to prevent Mr M from building further 
debt. And theyve offered Mr M the chance to discuss his repayment options. So, I think this 
shows them acting positively and sympathetically and its now up to Mr M to engage with this 
process. 
Because of the above, Im unable to say that Barclays have acted unfairly regarding the 
complaint points Ive been able to consider and because of this, I dont think they need to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC trading as Barclaycard.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman