DRN-3944324
The complaint
Mrs R complains about advice she received about her investments over the years from 
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJPWM). Primarily, she feels her investments 
were exposed to too much risk.
What happened
I wrote a provisional decision for this case last month. I also made some provisional 
decisions for other cases Mrs R and her family raised with us. Mrs R and her family have 
responded to all of these in a single submission. 
Among the points raised, Mrs R and her family are unhappy with the level of detail Ive put in 
my decision. So I think itll help to start by explaining what my decision is  and isnt  
intended to be. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal alternative to the courts. My decision aims 
to reflect that, by focussing on the crux of a complaint. I may not respond to every point 
thats been raised. And I wont usually give a detailed history of a situation. Ill just explain 
my opinion about a complaint overall, and the key facts Ive seen that lead me to it. 
Mrs Rs connection with SJPWM began after she inherited a relatively large amount of 
money. Investments aimed at using the money to provide an income were set up from 2009 
to early 2012.
As our investigator has noted, some of these investments were sold to Mrs R in her role as a 
trustee of a trust that no longer exists. Mrs R has questioned this, but I can see our 
investigator already explained the facts relating to those trusts, in an email on 10 June 2022. 
I wont repeat the details here, but Im satisfied that email accurately accounts for the 
transfer of ownership of the investments over the years. 
Our service doesnt have jurisdiction to consider the advice Mrs R received in her former role 
as trustee, even though she later received the investments outright as the trusts beneficiary.
Another point Mrs R and her family made was about our decision to split the complaints 
theyd raised into separate cases. But Im satisfied that accurately reflects how our 
jurisdiction applies to the complaints as theyve been made. 
The owners of the investments has changed over the years  primarily to improve their tax 
position. I can appreciate the strategy has been driven by Mrs R, but that doesnt change the 
fact the customer of SJPWM for the purposes of our jurisdiction hasnt always been just her. 
There are also two different companies being complained about. SJPWM gave advice about 
Mrs Rs investments. But another similarly named company carried out the administrative 
work to act on the advice Mrs R accepted  either from SJPWM or her other advisers. 
Regular meetings have taken place over the years, where Mrs R discussed her investments 
and ongoing financial needs with SJPWM. Its these discussions where Mrs R feels more 
should have been done to match the risk of her investments with her needs.
Mrs R has also introduced further complaints about the advice, noting more should have 
been done to capitalise on her not paying income tax. Shes also said about not using ISAs. 
Our investigator again has already addressed these points in a different investigation. That 
case looked separately at complaints Mrs R brought to us that werent within our time limits. I 
direct Mrs R back to that case for the reasons why were not considering those points. 
In their response to the complaint about the advice theyd provided, SJPWM said they took a 
medium to long term view of investment performance. They said they wouldnt have 
recommended changing investment funds if a customers attitude to risk hadnt changed.
I wrote last time that I provisionally found SJPWM had been meeting Mrs R with a view to 
providing advice, even though there wasnt a specific fee being charged to do so. And I 
explained how the effective advice to remain in her existing portfolio seemed to reflect that 
her needs were being met by it. 
Mrs R has expressed her disagreement with my assessment of the case. In addition to the 
points Ive noted above, shes reiterated her view that not enough was being done by 
SJPWM to reflect her investor risk profile. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasoning isnt changed by 
Mrs Rs response to my provisional decision. So Im largely going to repeat what I wrote last 
time. But where it will help to make my reasoning clear on a point raised by Mrs R, Ill add to 
my explanations.
A key point for me is that SJPWMs regular meetings and discussions with Mrs R could  at 
any point  have led to advice being given. From what SJPWM said in response to the 
complaint, if Mrs R had expressed a much different attitude to risk they would have thought 
about her investments accordingly.
So Ive looked through SJPWMs notes of their meetings with Mrs R over the years. These 
show me that there were two elements to what Mrs R was getting from the investments, 
which needed to be balanced by any advice SJPWM gave.
Firstly, she was receiving regular tax deferred withdrawals. These were providing her a 
relatively significant income. The investments look to have been set up with this feature in 
mind, as the funds chosen had more than a low risk level. In simple terms  to make more of 
a gain requires taking more of a risk.
From the reviews, Mrs Rs fixed outgoings  things like day-to-day living expenses  were 
met by the level of income she received. With that in mind, I can see the risk level seems 
suitable. It was enough to meet what was needed.
The second feature of Mrs Rs investments appears to be her relatively large withdrawals 
from the capital invested. One impact of this would be that volatility in the investments didnt 
have as much time to recover any short-term losses. I can see the case this makes for 
taking less risk with the investment.
But I can see reason not to change the risk rating. In the discussions SJPWM had with Mrs R about the large withdrawals, Mrs R seems to have said she planned to reduce them. 
SJPWM could reasonably expect Mrs R to do that, and for the impact the large withdrawals 
were having to reduce in turn.
So Ive decided to accept SJPWMs position is reasonable in this case. The risk rating for 
Mrs R balanced her ambitions to have an income from the investments with her stated 
intention to reduce the large withdrawals being made from them. What advice there was 
could reasonably be to keep things as they were.
My final decision
It follows that Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman