DRN-1600712
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for their mortgage.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996. It was paid for with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.
I sent Mr and Mrs G and B&B a provisional decision on 6 February 2020, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
B&B didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs G, so it didnt have to check it was right for 
them. But it did have to give them information about the policy that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading, so they could decide for themselves whether it was right for them.
I dont think B&B gave Mr and Mrs G clear enough information about the unemployment 
terms. And I think this wouldve mattered to Mr and Mrs G, because Mrs G had two jobs, 
doing more than 16 hours a week at both. Mrs G has given us her P60s from the time, so Im 
satisfied that she did have both jobs.
The policy only wouldve paid out if Mrs G was entirely without gainful employment, 
registered as unemployed, and entitled to receive unemployment benefits. So Mrs G 
wouldnt have been able to claim unless she happened to lose both jobs at the exact same 
time  which was not a realistic possibility. So she was not covered under the policy for what 
she might have realistically expected to be covered for.
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage application had a section where they applied for PPI. It gave an 
overview of what the policy was for and its eligibility criteria, and asked questions 
surrounding some of the other main exclusions. But it didnt mention that the unemployment 
benefit was dependent on the customer being completely out of work, and it didnt give any 
significant indication that the policy might not be suitable for someone with two jobs.
B&B then sent Mr and Mrs G a letter thanking them for their mortgage application, providing 
a general sales pitch for PPI, and enclosing a leaflet. The leaflet did mention that the policy 
wasnt suitable for someone with two jobs. But this was on page four of a lengthy leaflet. And 
importantly, Mr and Mrs G had already applied for PPI at that point. So not only did this 
leaflet come rather late in the day, but Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have felt like they had a 
reason to read this leaflet  it was part of a sales pitch for a product theyd already chosen. 
And the letter did not mention that there was anything important in the leaflet or that it was 
something Mr and Mrs G needed to read.
Later, Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage offer did point them to an attached policy summary, and it 
did say it contained important information. But that policy summary didnt mention that the 
customer had to be entirely without work to claim for unemployment, nor that the policy 
might not be suitable for someone with two jobs.So from what Ive got at the moment, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs G were made 
sufficiently aware of the terms for claiming for unemployment. And I dont think Mr and Mrs G 
wouldve bought the policy if B&B had given them enough information about it. So, I currently 
think that Mr and Mrs G have lost out because of what B&B got wrong.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
20 February 2020. Mr and Mrs G confirmed they had nothing further to add, while B&B sent 
in further arguments, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
B&B pointed out that Mrs G didnt seem to mention her second job in the mortgage 
application. I understand why its raised this, but Im satisfied from Mrs Gs P60s that she 
was indeed working her second job at the time. And since this was a non-advised sale, 
I dont think it was likely to have made a difference whether Mrs G mentioned it on her 
mortgage application or not.
B&B also questioned why Mr and Mrs G didnt cancel the PPI when they got their mortgage 
offer if they hadnt applied for it. But Im afraid it has misunderstood my provisional decision. 
I did not find that Mr and Mrs G never consented to the policy; I found that they were not 
made sufficiently aware of the unemployment terms  and so had they been given clear 
enough information, they were unlikely to have consented.
Importantly, the onus was on B&B to give Mr and Mrs G information at the point of sale that 
was clear, fair, and not misleading. The onus was not on Mr and Mrs G to spot flaws in 
B&Bs sale and cancel the policy after the fact.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that Mr and 
Mrs G were unlikely to have bought the policy if B&B had given them clear enough 
information about it.
Putting things right
Bradford & Bingley Plc needs to put Mr and Mrs G in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI. That means the policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled 
already, and B&B should:
Pay Mr and Mrs G back the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
 
If Mr and Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, B&B can take off what 
they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires B&B to take off tax from this interest. B&B must give 
Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. Mr and 
Mrs G can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint, and direct Bradford & Bingley Plc to put things right in 
the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman