DRN-2899615
The complaint
Mr Ys complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited mis-handled a claim in relation to his car 
insurance policy, resulting in a higher premium at the next renewal.
All references to Tesco in this decision include its administrative agents.  
What happened
In 2019, Mr Y accidentally reversed his car into another car and the incident was reported to 
Tesco. Tesco investigated by obtaining further information from Mr Y and the driver of the 
other car (the third party) including two engineers reports.  
Based on the information, Tesco settled the claim and paid the third party around £7,000 in 
total for vehicle damage, vehicle hire, personal injury and solicitors costs. 
Believing that the impact was at such low speed that the damage and injuries claimed 
couldnt have arisen from the accident, Mr Y complained to Tesco. He asked it to reconsider 
its decision on the grounds that the claim was fraudulent. 
Tesco confirmed that it believed it had dealt with the claim correctly, so Mr Y brought his 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt recommend 
that it should be upheld. They felt Tesco had settled the claim in line with the policy terms 
and conditions and had acted fairly. 
Mr Y didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, he said hed been the victim of 
a fraudulent claim and that Tesco had been wrong to pay out. Mr Y said photos hed taken of 
the other car showed the damage was minimal and also that the third party had forged 
various documents in support of their claim. 
The complaint was passed to a second investigator who explained to Mr Y that they agreed 
with the findings of the first investigator. Because Mr Y remained unhappy, the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id emphasise that in this decision Im not looking at the fairness of the premium increase 
itself. That happened as a consequence of the issue Ive focussed on, namely whether it 
was reasonable for Tesco to agree to pay the third party in settlement of the claim.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Y accepts he was involved in a car accident involving a third party that resulted in a 
claim. I note the policy terms and conditions say that, in dealing with any claim, Tesco may:
carry out the defence or settlement of any claim and choose the solicitor who 
will act for you in any legal action; and
take any legal action in your name or the name of any other person covered 
by this policy.   
We can do any of these in your name or in the name of any person claiming 
under this policy.
So, Tesco had quite a wide discretion in how to handle the claim. 
Ive looked carefully at whether Tesco exercised that discretion fairly in this case. In doing 
that, Ive considered the evidence Tesco relied on in settling the claim. For example, I can 
see that Tesco relied on two reports from an engineer that assessed the damage to the third 
partys car and provided breakdowns of the repair costs. 
Im aware that Mr Ys expressed concerns about the credibility of the engineers reports but I 
can see no reason why Tesco wasnt entitled to rely on them. The engineer took photos, 
assessed the damage and put together two relatively detailed reports explaining their 
findings.
Mr Y suggested that Tesco contact a pub near the site of the accident in case it held CCTV 
footage showing what happened. I can see that Tesco wrote to the pub in August 2019 to 
ask for a copy if available. No response was received so Tesco dealt with the claim in its 
absence, which I believe it was entitled to do. And I think it wasnt unreasonable of it to 
assess the claim based on the information it did have.
I realise Mr Y believes the third party has acted fraudulently and has deceived Tesco into 
paying the settlement. Thats a serious allegation and, from what Ive seen, the evidence 
doesnt suggest there was any suspicious activity. Mr Ys provided his own photos of the 
other car following the accident and called into question the validity of the third partys claim. 
But I believe the information provided to Tesco indicates, on balance, that the claim was a 
genuine one. And that Tesco settled the claim fairly and reasonably based on the 
information it had.
Overall, I think Tesco appropriately investigated the third partys claim and, while taking into 
account Mr Ys concerns, responded accordingly.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman