DRN-4149214
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that Domestic and General Insurance PLC (D&G) declined to replace her 
appliance, following a claim under her gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms R held a policy with D&G from 6 November 2019. Her appliance was written off on 26 
October 2020 and a replacement appliance was sent to her. Ms R said that the replacement 
wasnt the colour that she wanted but accepted that it was the same specification as the 
previous appliance. It was at this time that the policy terminated as Ms R had been provided 
with a replacement appliance. 
On 30 October 2020, Ms R ordered the replacement appliance, from a link that had been 
sent by D&G. The appliance was delivered on 2 November 2020. Ms R contacted D&G on 
16 May 2022 and reported that she had found a mark on the fridge. D&G advised her that 
there was no cover (as the policy had terminated once the replacement appliance had been 
delivered to her) so it referred her to the appliance manufacturer.
Ms R re-contacted D&G on 29 June 2020, as she told them that the appliance manufacturer 
had advised her to go back to D&G. D&G told Ms R that as the damage, she was describing 
amounted to cosmetic damage, even if there was protection in place, this wouldnt be 
covered, as cosmetic damage is excluded from cover. Ms R was again referred back to the 
appliance manufacturer. 
Ms R later complained to D&G. In its final response, D&G maintained its position as outlined, 
and gave Ms R her referral rights. 
Ms R referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the 
complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that D&G had fairly applied the 
terms of the policy. There was no cover in place currently and even if there had been, as the 
damage was classed as cosmetic, there was no cover. So, she was unable to ask D&G to 
do anything further. 
D&G accepted the view, Ms R did not. Ms R said: 
I have received your email and I'm not happy with your decision. I followed all their rules and 
got nowhere. You say their policy is to provide a replacement but it should be an expectable 
replacement offering you a choice they offered me a choice of three of the same grey fridge 
which is not acceptable to me. Although they are the insurance provider it was them who 
provided the fridge freezer to me the same as if I'd bought it from a shop so under consumer 
rights I would of thought they would be held responsible. 
So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this is likely to be a disappointment to Ms R, but I hope my 
findings explain why I think this is fair. 
I understand that Ms R has also complained about some poor service issues she said she 
experienced. But I must make it clear that this decision deals with areas that she raised with 
D&G, namely, whether D&G ought to replace her appliance. 
Ms R held a policy with D&G. Its not in dispute that she made a claim, and it replaced her 
appliance, due to the previous one being written off.  Ms R explained that sometime after the 
replacement was made, she noticed there, was discoloration on the appliance and contacted 
D&G. 
D&G said that once it had replaced Ms Rs previous appliance, the policy that had covered 
the previous appliance had ended, once Ms R had accepted the replacement. I have 
reviewed this in line with the evidence presented. I cant see that Ms R had any cover for the 
appliance that became discoloured. I say this, as Ms R had claimed on the previous policy 
which had ended. 
Consequently, I think that D&G were fair to refer Ms R to the appliance manufacturer to 
assist with her discoloured appliance. 
Ive reviewed the previous terms and conditions. As well as D&G making it clear that there 
was cosmetic damage (which is damage that doesnt affect the usual operation of the 
appliance) is not covered, the policy also confirms this. So had Ms R had a valid policy in 
place, the damage she described, wouldnt have been covered anyway. 
I appreciate that Ms R spent some time trying to sort out the issues she had with the 
appliance, with both D&G and the appliance manufacturer. But, given there was no policy in 
force at the time (even if there had been one there was no cover) I cant agree that D&G 
were unreasonable or unfair to have declined her claim.
Finally, I understand that Ms R said that she wasnt happy with the replacement appliance, 
essentially, she wasnt happy with the colour, that D&G refused to settle the claim with a 
cash offer and the lack of options available to her. I have been provided with a number of 
call recordings, which I have listened to. From that evidence, D&G offered Ms R several 
options, albeit some of those options required an additional cash payment. Those options 
were declined by Ms R. So, the only other options which were three different appliances 
were available. So, I cant agree that D&G didnt apply the policy terms and conditions here. 
Ms R said that she wanted a cash settlement as she didnt want the same or similar 
appliance to the one that had broken down. But the terms and conditions permit D&G to 
select what option it uses to settle a claim. I accept that one of the options is a cash 
settlement, but another is to offer a replacement, which is what D&G did here. Again, I cant 
agree that it did anything wrong here.
Nor can I agree that by offering a different colour, but same specifications as the appliance 
was wrong also. As the policy allows this. I acknowledge Ms Rs strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why she 
referred it to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen 
enough evidence to show that D&G acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do 
anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman