DRN-3977353
The complaint
Mrs D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund a number of payments 
made from her account which she says she didnt make.
What happened
In October 2021, Mrs D received a phone call from someone who said they worked for a 
mobile phone retailer. The caller said they were running a promotion at the moment, so 
could offer Mrs D some phones at reduced prices. And so Mrs D agreed to buy a number of 
phones, intending them to be for her family.
Mrs D says she thought she was making two payments from her two NatWest accounts to 
the mobile phone retailer, which were upfront payments for the phones. But she then 
received two phones that werent the ones she had agreed to buy  which she has returned. 
And she later found out four additional payments were made out of her accounts via a 
money transfer service  which she says she didnt make. Mrs D then reported the additional 
payments to NatWest and asked it to refund the money she had lost.
Ive set out the payments made out of Mrs Ds accounts below:
Date Account Details Amount
25 October 2021 From account 
ending 7644To mobile phone 
provider 1£100
26 October 2021 From account 
ending 1301To mobile phone 
provider 2£42.99
1 November 2021 From account 
ending 7644Via money transfer 
service£100
1 November 2021 From account 
ending 7644Via money transfer 
service£100.80
2 November 2021 From account 
ending 7644Via money transfer 
service£50.99
2 November 2021 From account 
ending 7644Via money transfer 
service£50.59
2 November 2021 From account 
ending 1301Via money transfer 
service£153.99
NatWest investigated but didnt agree to refund the payments, as it said Mrs D had approved 
them all in its mobile app. NatWest did offer Mrs D £50 compensation for the poor customer 
service she had received when raising her claim though. But Mrs D wasnt satisfied with 
NatWests response, so referred a complaint to our service.
I sent Mrs D and NatWest a provisional decision on 24 July 2023, setting out why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
Did Mrs D make the payments?
While Mrs D thought the first two payments of £100 and £42.99 were going to the mobile 
phone retailer she thought she was speaking to, they actually went to two different mobile 
phone providers. And those two mobile phone providers both sent her phones  albeit not 
the phones Mrs D thought she was buying. But Mrs D accepts she made these payments. 
So I havent considered these first two payments here.
Mrs D says she didnt make any of the payments that were made via the money transfer 
service. But, generally, a business can hold a customer liable for disputed transactions on 
their account if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that the customer made the 
payments themselves, or told someone else they could make them.
NatWest has sent us technical evidence showing how these payments were made. And from 
this, Im satisfied all the payments were made using Mrs Ds genuine card details. But this, 
on its own, isnt enough to allow NatWest to hold Mrs D responsible. So I also need to think 
about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mrs D consented to the 
payments.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
NatWests evidence shows that all the payments were approved by someone logging into 
Mrs Ds mobile banking app and approving each one individually. And Mrs D hasnt said that 
she gave the caller, or anyone else, her mobile banking details.
NatWests evidence also shows that the payments to the money transfer service were 
approved from the same device that was used to approve the payments to the mobile phone 
providers  which Mrs D accepts she made. And the payments were all approved from the 
same IP address that was used to log in to Mrs Ds mobile banking on several occasions 
both before and after the payments were made.
So in order for someone else to have approved the payments, they would have needed to 
correctly guess her mobile banking details, take and replace her phone on several occasions 
without her knowing, and do this in a location she was often in  which I think is unlikely.  
And so I cant see how anyone other than Mrs D would have been able to approve the 
payments.
I appreciate how Mrs D feels about this case, but Im afraid the evidence isnt in her favour. 
And, based on the evidence I have, I think its likely she either made the payments herself or 
allowed someone else to do so. So I think NatWest has acted reasonably in holding her 
liable for them.
Did NatWest do enough to protect Mrs D?
Where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer, even though they 
authorised the payment. But, even if Mrs D did make the payments as a result of a scam 
here, I still dont think it would be fair to require NatWest to refund them.
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I think its likely Mrs D made the payments or allowed 
someone else to do so. So while she may not have intended for the money to go to 
scammers, she did authorise the payments. And so the starting position in law is that she is 
liable for them and NatWest doesnt have to refund the money she lost.Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think NatWest should fairly 
and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether NatWest should have identified that Mrs D was potentially 
at risk of fraud as a result of these payments.
But the payments out of her account, both to the mobile phone providers and the money 
transfer service, werent for particularly large amounts. There were other payments out of 
Mrs Ds account for similar and larger amounts in the months before the payments. And the 
payments didnt leave the balance of her accounts at particularly unusual levels or form a 
particularly suspicious pattern.
So I dont think the payments will have looked unusual to NatWest. And I think its 
reasonable that NatWest didnt identify that Mrs D was potentially at risk of fraud as a result 
of the payments or ask any further questions before allowing them to go through.
Did NatWest do enough to help Mrs D recover the money?
Both mobile phone providers the first two payments were made to have accepted that the 
agreements for the phones that were sent to Mrs D were entered fraudulently. Theyve both 
closed the accounts they had opened in Mrs D name and appear to have refunded the 
payments to her. So I dont think NatWest needs to take any further action in relation to 
these payments.
The other payments were made via a money transfer service. And as theres no suggestion 
the money transfer service carried out the transfers incorrectly, theres no further action 
NatWest can take to try to recover these payments.
Customer Service
Mrs D also complained that the payments to the money transfer service were made after a 
block was applied to her account. And that, if the block had been applied correctly, NatWest 
shouldnt have allowed those payments to go through.
But I can see from NatWests records that the block on Mrs Ds accounts was applied in the 
evening of 28 October 2021. And while the payments to the money transfer service all left 
her account after this, they had all been approved in Mrs Ds mobile banking app before this.
Payments made out of someones account, particularly card payments, will often not be 
made immediately. There may be a delay of up to a few days before the company the payment was made to claims the money. But the bank cant stop a payment after it has been 
approved. So while the payments hadnt left Mrs Ds account before the block was applied, 
they had already been approved. And so NatWest couldnt stop them, even though the block 
was applied. So I dont think NatWest made an error here.
NatWest has offered to pay Mrs D £50 as compensation for the poor customer service she 
received when raising her claim. And I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, so I dont intend to require NatWest to do anything further.
I said Id consider anything further Mrs D and NatWest sent in following the provisional 
decision, provided it was received by the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest hasnt sent in anything further to be considered following the provisional decision.
Mrs D replied to the provisional decision, accepting that she made the first two payments of 
£100 and £42.99 but saying she didnt approve the other payments. She also said all the 
payments were showing as pending on her account until at least 30 August 2022.
I appreciate that Mrs D says she didnt approve the last five payments which were made via 
the money transfer service. But she hasnt sent us any more information about how 
someone else would have known her mobile banking details or been able to use her phone 
without her knowing. And without another plausible explanation or this, I still cant see how 
anyone other than Mrs D would have been able to make the payments. So I still think its 
likely she either made the payments herself or allowed someone else to do so. And so I still 
think NatWest has acted reasonably in holding her liable for them.
I also accept that the payments were showing as pending after the block was applied to her 
account. But, as I explained in the provisional decision, the payments were all approved in 
her mobile banking app before the block was applied.
Card payments made out of someones account will often not be made immediately. There 
can be a delay of several days before the company the payment was made to claims the 
money. And during this time, the payment will show as pending. But, even if it is showing as 
pending, the bank cant stop a payment after it has been approved.
So while the payments hadnt left Mrs Ds account before the block was applied, they had 
been approved before the block was applied. So NatWest couldnt stop the payments, even 
though the block was applied.
Mrs D didnt send us any more information to disprove that this is what happened. And so I 
still dont think NatWest made an error with the block or could have done anything more to 
stop the payments going out.
I also still think the rest of the conclusions from my provisional decision are correct, and for 
the same reasons. So I still dont think it would be fair to require NatWest to do anything 
further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman