DRN-3773628
The complaint
Mr Y complained to Intelligent Money Ltd about its failure to provide him with any paperwork 
regarding his Bankruptcy Solutions Pension Plan (BSPP). He says this meant he was 
unaware of the high charges on his plan and that his fund was invested in cash. 
What happened
Mr Y was subject to a Bankruptcy order in 1996. As a result, the Insolvency Practitioner 
consolidated several of his pensions in a BSPP that was ultimately held with Intelligent 
Money. The BSPP was set up by the Insolvency Practitioner, with the practitioner as the 
contact name and address on the plan. 
In 2007 Intelligent Money issued a letter to the Insolvency Practitioner. It said that if interest 
in the BSPP was transferred to Mr Y, he would be able to continue to run it. But it said that 
once the plan was transferred it would recommend that professional advice was sought.  
In 2009, the Insolvency Practitioner wrote to Intelligent Money and said that it was 
disclaiming its interest in the BSPP and that any further correspondence should be issued 
directly to Mr Y. It also confirmed the contact address for Mr Y.  However, although the plan 
was moved over to Mr Ys name, Intelligent Money failed to remove the bankruptcy marker. 
In 2019, Mr Y was approaching retirement so he contacted Intelligent Money to ask for 
information on his BSPP. In response to his enquiry, Intelligent Money issued Mr Y with an 
annual statement. Mr Y wrote back to Intelligent Money querying why the statement said it 
was annual as it was the first hed received. And he requested confirmation as to whether he 
should have been receiving these each year. He also raised a number of other questions 
about his BSPP. Despite several chasers, Mr Y didnt receive a reply to his questions until 
December 2021. By which time hed instructed an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) to 
assist him. 
In February 2022, Mr Y complained to Intelligent Money. He said the complaint was 
threefold. Firstly, he was unhappy that he hadnt been sent any statements about his BSPP. 
He was also unhappy that he hadnt received any interest on his pension since 2010 and 
that the only transactions on his plan had been the annual charges being taken, which he 
considered extortionate. And he was dissatisfied with the overall communication between 
him/his IFA and Intelligent Money.  
Intelligent Money responded to the complaint. In summary it said that it didnt deal with the 
individuals involved when a plan was set up as a result of bankruptcy; its contact would be 
the Insolvency Practitioner. It also confirmed that its annual fees and the terms of the 
contract had been agreed with the Insolvency Practitioner when it was set up. And it 
explained that it didnt give advice and that once interest in the plan had been moved to Mr Y 
it was for him to take advice as to the suitability of the plan. It acknowledged that the fees 
may have been higher than Mr Y would have wanted to pay and although Mr Y hadnt 
exercised his right to go on the open market, as a gesture of goodwill it offered him £500. 
Mr Y was unhappy with Intelligent Moneys response and offer so he referred his complaint 
to our service for review. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought Intelligent Money needed to do 
more to put things right. In summary, the investigator said that Intelligent Moneys failure to 
remove the bankruptcy marker on the BSPP led to Mr Y not receiving any statements. As a 
result, he didnt have the oversight he required to know what was happening with his 
pension. And as Mr Y didnt have any involvement in the BSPP being set up, he was 
unaware of how his funds were invested or what charges were being applied. 
The investigator was satisfied that if the marker had been removed when it should have 
been, Mr Y would likely have received his statements and taken action sooner, either staying 
with Intelligent Money but investing his funds or transferring away. While the investigator 
couldnt say for sure exactly what Mr Y wouldve done, he noted that he was in the process 
of transferring his BSPP to another provider. 
In terms of the service provided by Intelligent Money, the investigator thought this had been 
poor both in terms of the original error and when providing subsequent information. This was 
especially so after Mr Y sent further questions in November 2019, with it taking Intelligent 
Money over a year to respond. The investigator explained that Mr Y had also highlighted 
more recent delays in his complaint letter as it took some time for his IFA to receive 
information about the BSPP.
The investigator thought the £500 Intelligent Money had offered Mr Y was fair in terms of the 
inconvenience the errors had caused. But he also recommended Intelligent Money complete 
a calculation to determine how much Mr Ys fund would be worth had it been invested 
sooner. 
Mr Y accepted the investigators findings. Intelligent Money said that its offer of £500 was 
still available to Mr Y but it didnt agree that it needed to do more. It said its position was as 
set out in its final response and it requested that the matter be considered by an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Other than to say that its position is as set out in its final response, Intelligent Money didnt 
provide any further comments to explain why it doesnt accept the investigators findings. 
Having carefully considered everything, I agree with the investigators opinion and for mostly 
the same reasons. So I only intend to summarise why Im upholding the complaint.
Mr Y didnt have any involvement in his BSPP being established so he had no idea what the 
charges were on his plan, that it was invested in cash or that he would need an IFA if he 
wanted to make any changes to it. In its final response Intelligent Money said that once the plan had been put into Mr Ys name, 
it was for him to take advice as to the suitability of the plan. However, its not reasonable for 
Intelligent Money to have assumed that Mr Y would know this. I know its said that it only 
deals with the Insolvency Practitioner on BSPPs. But it advised the Insolvency Practitioner 
that Mr Y could continue with the plan if it was transferred to his name. This suggests to me 
that if it had removed the bankruptcy marker, as it was supposed to once the plan was 
moved into Mr Ys name, that it should have contacted Mr Y. And I dont think its 
unreasonable to suggest that it ought to have done this in order to inform Mr Y how his plan 
worked and to explain that he would require an IFA.
Intelligent Money also said in its final response that Mr Y hadnt exercised his right to go the 
open market once the plan was put in his name. But again, it didnt tell Mr Y this so its 
unclear how he was expected to know what his options were. 
Had Intelligent Money written to Mr Y in 2009, as it ought to have done, I think its likely that 
Mr Y would have instructed an IFA to act on his behalf much sooner than he did. 
Our investigator said that he thought action would have been taken following on from when 
the first annual statement should have been issued to Mr Y. It doesnt seem unreasonable to 
use this as a starting point for when Mr Y may have taken action, if Intelligent Money hadnt 
made any errors. 
I also agree with the investigator that the service Mr Y received since he contacted Intelligent 
Money has fallen short of what I would expect. Mr Y wrote to Intelligent Money in November 
2019 but he didnt receive a response to his questions until December 2021, more than two 
years later. 
Like our investigator said, I think the offer of £500 for the inconvenience caused to Mr Y is 
fair. However, Im also directing it to complete a calculation to reflect that Mr Ys plan has 
been in cash since 2009. I think if Intelligent Money had done what it should have in 2009, 
Mr Y would have instructed an IFA sooner and his fund would have been invested. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr Y should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if Intelligent Money hadnt failed to remove teh bankruptcy marker on his plan .
I take the view that Mr Y would have sought financial advice sooner and would have 
invested his plan rather than leaving it in cash. Its not possible to say precisely what he 
would have done. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr Y's circumstances.
What must Intelligent Money do?
To compensate Mr Y fairly, Intelligent Money must:
Compare the performance of Mr Y's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.Intelligent Money should also add any interest set out below to the compensation 
payable.
Intelligent Money should pay into Mr Y's pension plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Intelligent Money is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Y's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr Y wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Y's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr Y is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr Y would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr Y £500 for the inconvenience caused as a result of the errors in 2009 and 
for the subsequent delays in dealing with his correspondence.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Intelligent Money deducts income tax 
from the interest it should tell Mr Y how much has been taken off. Intelligent Money should 
give Mr Y a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr Y asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
BSPP In the 
process of 
being 
transferredFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index20 
December 
2009Date of 
transfer 8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving 
Mr Ys  
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Its likely Mr Y would have wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some 
investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Y's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im upholding this complaint and I direct Intelligent Money Ltd to 
pay redress as set out below. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023. 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman