DRN-2141666
The complaint
Ms R says she never asked Allay Claims Ltd to act for her in a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) claim. And says she has been harassed by them.
What happened
Ms R said shes never asked Allay to act on her behalf in making a PPI claim. And said any 
information they had would have been from previous claims made with her lender several 
years before.
Allay said Ms R made an online application in July 2019 for them to carry out a free PPI 
check with her lenders. They said shed also signed a letter of authority (LoA) authorising 
them to make a PPI claim for her, should any PPI be found. 
In September 2019 Allay said they told Ms R that PPI had been found and that theyd 
submitted a claim for her. And that Ms R hadnt cancelled the agreement within the 14-day 
cooling off period. As Ms R wanted to cancel her agreement after the 14-day cooling off 
period, Allay said theyd charge her £90 for the work theyd done.
Ms R wasnt happy with Allays response and referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator said Allay had acted fairly and reasonably in what theyd done for Ms R and 
could charge their cancellation fee.
Ms R didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this  complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Ms Rs frustration as she is adamant, she hasnt asked Allay to act for her 
in making a PPI claim with her lender. Where there is a different version of events as is the 
case here, I have to base my decision on what I think most likely happened. So, Ive 
considered whether Ms R authorised Allay to act for her in submitting a PPI claim. And if she 
did, whether she let them know she no longer wanted them to work for her.  
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in July 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Ms R has given this 
service. The application also needed details of Ms Rs lenders, and these details were 
provided. A LoA would have been generated by the application, and to be submitted a 
signature had to be added and this is what happened. The supplied information is specific to 
Ms R, so on balance I think it would have been Ms R who completed the on-line application, 
and I think signed the LoA. 
Allays terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the LoA Ms R had 
agreed to them. Allays terms and conditions say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender.
I can see that in September 2019 Allay told Ms R that she did have a PPI policy with her 
lender, so a complaint was submitted. Allay asked Ms R to complete a PPI questionnaire as 
the lender needed the additional information to progress Ms Rs claim.  Allay also sent 
reminders to her about these documents. But I cant see Ms R responded to or asked Allay 
to stop calling her until December 2019.
Allays terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14-day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. To cancel your contract with us, either call Customer 
Services on 0191 462 0000, email your cancellation request to cancellations@allay.co.uk, 
download a Cancellation Form from our website www.allay.co.uk or write to us at The 
Processing Centre, Trafalgar Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 2LA.
Allay has shown they submitted Ms Rs complaint on 30 September 2019, this would have 
given Ms R until 14 October 2019 to cancel within the 14-day cooling off period. And if Ms R 
was certain she hadnt asked Allay to work for her she could have taken this opportunity to 
ask Allay about the agreement and to cancel it at no charge. I dont think it was enough by 
Ms R not engaging with Allay to consider this as her cancelling her agreement with them. I 
cant see any evidence that despite several calls and opportunities for Ms R to speak to or 
get in touch with Allay, it wasnt until December 2019 when she asked Allay to stop calling. 
And I cant see that she has specifically asked them to cancel her agreement. 
Allays terms and conditions go on to say:
If you terminate this agreement after the 14-day cooling off period and prior to an offer of 
redress, Allay reserves the right to make a reasonable and proportionate cancellation charge 
that will reflect the work undertaken by Allay in pursuit of your claim.
Charges will be calculated as follows:
For substantiation and referral of Your Claim to the Third Party, we will charge you 
£60 (inclusive of VAT where applicable).
For referral of Your Claim to the FOS, we will charge you £60 (inclusive of VAT 
where applicable).
For any manual communication e.g. an outgoing or incoming call/letter/email to or 
from either You or the Third Party, we will charge you £40 (inclusive of VAT where
applicable).
For any automated communication e.g. automated update letters or text messages to 
you, we will charge you £10 (inclusive of VAT where applicable).
Allay has said as any cancellation would now be after the 14-day cooling off period they will 
charge Ms R a cancellation fee of £90 for the work theyve done. This would be for 
submitting her claim and for three automated messages, and I think this reflects the 
examples given above. So, I dont think Allay are being unfair or unreasonable in asking 
Ms R to pay a cancellation fee as they did do work for her.
Ms R has said that she had been harassed by calls and messages sent to her by Allay, and I 
can see she said she took her landline off the hook for 10 days because of the calls she 
was getting. I think this must have been upsetting for Ms R, but I can see that as soon as she engaged with Allay they took the necessary steps to end the automated calls she was 
getting. 
I know Ms R will be disappointed with my decision, but I think she did authorise Allay to act 
on her behalf. And she didnt cancel her agreement with them within the 14-day cooling off 
period. Also as soon as she got in touch with Allay they took steps to stop further calls. So, I 
think Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in what they have done, and they can charge 
their cancellation fee of £90.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman