DRN-3636204
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos (Argos) is 
asking her to pay charges and interest on a purchase she made with her Argos Card.
What happened
In August 2021, Mrs T made a purchase through Argos and applied to pay for it using an 
Argos Card which she says was interest free. 
Mrs T says she then forgot all about the account until Argos started to contact her to repay 
the debt. Mrs T says she didnt receive any statements from Argos and didnt have any 
contact from them until around February 2022. Argos is now chasing Mrs T for repayment of 
the principle balance, interest and charges that have applied to the account.
Argos responded to Mrs Ts complaint but didnt uphold it. It confirmed that the product had 
been purchased on six months buy now pay later scheme. It said that no interest was 
payable in the first six months, however if the full balance of the purchase wasnt cleared by 
the end of the six months, then deferred interest would be added to the account. It said it 
didnt receive a payment from Mrs T, and so it applied interest and late payment charges to 
her account. It said it would refund the April 2022 late payment charge as a gesture of 
goodwill. Argos confirmed the total outstanding balance (at the time the letter was produced) 
was £381.14 and that all interest and charges had been applied to the account correctly.
The Investigator who looked into Mrs Ts complaint didnt think it should be upheld. They 
found that Argoss instructions on what Mrs T needed to do to view her statements when the 
credit facility was set up was made clear to Mrs T. They also thought Argos had made 
reasonable attempts to contact Mrs T when the account went into arrears. And they found 
that because Mrs T didnt make a payment to Argos to clear the principle balance before the 
interest free period ran out, they couldnt ask Argos to write off the interest and charges that 
had been applied to the account.
Mrs T didnt agree with the Investigators view. She thought that Argos had sent her 
statements by email which had been returned as undelivered  and she doesnt remember 
having signed up for email statements. She didnt think it was fair that Argos only started 
calling her once the debt had gone into arrears.
Because Mrs T didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on 
the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence available to me, it is my decision not to uphold Mrs Ts 
complaint. 
I can see that Mrs T bought the product on a six-month interest free buy now pay later 
scheme. This means that although she bought the product in August 2021, no interest would 
be applied to the balance until February 2022 and the first payment wouldnt be due until 
March 2022. However, this wouldnt have prevented Mrs T from making repayments before 
this time if shed have wanted to. 
The terms and conditions of the account state that if the full principle balance isnt repaid 
before the buy now pay later scheme ended, then deferred interest would be applied to the 
account, and interest charges would continue to be accrued from this point onwards until the 
balance was repaid in full.
In this case, the buy now pay later scheme ended in February 2022. Looking at Mrs Ts 
statements, I cant see that any repayments were made to the account before this time, and 
so deferred interest was added to the total balance due as per the terms and conditions of 
the account. Interest has continued to accrue since this time  again in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account also say that a £12 fee would be applied to the 
account if a payment was made late. Mrs T hadnt made any repayments to the account by 
the payment due date, and so I agree that Argos has applied the £12 late payment fee to the 
account in line with the terms and conditions. 
Overall, Argos has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account when applying 
both interest and charges. 
Mrs T says she had forgotten she had made the purchase on the card, and Argos didnt do 
enough to contact her about the amount she owed. Shes also said she didnt receive any 
email statements and based on a statement she received through the post, she thinks the 
emails it sent her had been returned as undelivered. 
I havent found there was any need for Argos to have contacted Mrs T until March 2022. 
There werent any payments due until this time, so it had no reason to get in touch. While I 
can understand that Mrs T might have found it useful for Argos to have contacted her prior to 
the buy now pay later scheme ending, I dont think Argos did anything wrong by not 
contacting her before this. 
When Mrs T took out the credit in August 2021, I can see that as part of the application 
process she would have needed to agree to electronic statements. In the box, where Mrs T 
had to accept the terms and conditions, it states We will send account information (including 
statements), documents and notices, as well as updates on your application, via text, email 
or through our self-service platforms  My Argos Card app or MyArgosCard.co.uk. You must 
register as soon as your Card arrives so that you can view your monthly statements. You 
can update your preferences at any time in these platforms or by contacting Argos Card 
Services. This information is also highlighted in blue, so I think Argos had made attempts to 
draw attention to this information.
In addition to this, Argos has sent me a copy of a welcome letter it says it would have 
emailed to Mrs T. This also states, As youve signed up to paperless, you must download 
the App to be able to view your statements.  
Argos hasnt been able to send me the actual welcome email it sent to Mrs T, but it has sent 
me a screen shot of its internal systems that shows the email was sent. It was sent to the 
same email address we hold on file for Mrs T. And so, Im satisfied the email was sent and 
more than likely received. While I dont know the exact content of the email, I think it is likely 
to be very similar if not the same as the sample template Argos has sent me. On balance, I think the welcome email is more likely to have included the same information Ive seen from 
the template on how statements can be viewed  given that this would be a vital part of how 
the account is to be managed. 
Mrs T says that she wasnt aware she had signed up to paperless statements  but I think 
the information highlighted in blue at application stage made this clear  including the 
information she received as part of the welcome email. 
Given what Ive said above, I think it more likely than not that Mrs T was given the correct 
information on what she needed to view her statements  in that she would need to 
download the Argos App to do this. It was Mrs Ts responsibility to ensure that she was 
viewing statements through the app in order to manage her account and ensure repayments 
to the account were made on time.  
I can understand that it must have been confusing for Mrs T to receive a statement through 
the post which said that the email statement had been returned as undelivered  the 
statement Mrs T has sent us is dated March 2022. Argos has explained that when a 
customer is in arrears, it will send a paper statement as is the case here. It explains that in 
order to trigger a paper statement to be sent in the post, it needs to process it as being 
undelivered. While I appreciate this must have been confusing to receive, I havent seen 
any other evidence of emails being returned as undelivered  Argos has provided 
information from its internal systems to show that no emails have bounced back. Im satisfied 
with Argos's explanation as to why the statement says this and Im satisfied that no emails 
have been returned as undelivered.
In any event, Mrs T didnt make a repayment towards the balance even when she received 
the statement in the post. So, I dont think I can fairly conclude that the non-payment of the 
balance has been as a result of Mrs T not being able to view statements. 
I appreciate that Mrs Ts credit file will now likely be negatively impacted as a result of the 
missed payments to this account. However, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont 
think this is as a result of something Argos has done wrong. Argos has an obligation to 
report accurate information to the credit reference agencies.
Overall, I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that Argos has done anything wrong in 
relation to Mrs Ts account. I agree that the interest and charges it has applied to the 
account have been done so fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the account. I 
think Argos explained to Mrs T what shed need to do to view the statements each month  
and it was up to Mrs T to do this herself. Im also not of the opinion that Argos should have 
done more to contact Mrs T about the outstanding debt, as Im aware that it has called her 
and sent her letters.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman