DRN-2316233
The complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by MotoNovo Finance Limited.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr D acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. The car 
was four years old and had a mileage of around 41,000 miles. Mr D says he noticed a noise 
coming from the front of the vehicle shortly after purchase, and when the dealership wouldnt 
help him with the issue, he contacted MotoNovo in March 2019. 
An engineer inspection was carried out in April 2019 which found no fault with the vehicle. 
Mr D was unhappy with this inspection, he says it was completed at operating temperature, 
so the fault wasnt apparent, and the engineer only spent around ten minutes looking at the 
car. Mr D and MotoNovo agreed that he would have his own independent inspection 
completed. 
Mr D says he had to save for the cost of the report, and so he had it completed in December 
2019. The engineer confirmed there was a high-pitched squeal upon starting the car, which 
became intermittent as the car was driven, but was still apparent on several occasions whilst 
pulling away from rest. The engineer concluded that the problem was likely to be a worn 
bearing, but removal of the gearbox and clutch assembly would be required in order to check 
for the cause. 
MotoNovo arranged for a third report to be completed in January 2020. That report 
confirmed there was a vibration throughout the gear selector and an abnormal noise from 
the transmission at speeds of up to 40mph. It also concluded that the problem was likely to 
be a worn bearing. 
MotoNovo responded to Mr Ds complaint to say it thought the car was of satisfactory quality 
at the time that it was supplied, as the third engineer had said they didnt think the problem 
would have been there at the point of supply. 
Unhappy with this, Mr D brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
this for Mr D. He thought that the car was likely to have been of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied. Mr D disagrees and so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. MotoNovo as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car acquired was used, with a cash price of around £8,000. It was four years old 
and had travelled 41,910 miles at the time of supply. With this in mind, I think a reasonable 
person would expect that parts of the car might already have suffered some wear and tear, 
and there is a risk that repairs, or maintenance, might be needed sooner than a car that was 
newer or less road worn when it was supplied. 
Its clear theres a problem with Mr Ds car. The latest two engineers have confirmed that 
there is an abnormal noise coming from the vehicle. Its not clear without some dismantling 
of the vehicle what is causing the noise, but both engineers conclude that the most likely 
cause is a worn bearing. 
Mr D has said that he noticed the noise from the vehicle quite early on after it was supplied. 
Ive asked Mr D for more details surrounding any early issues that he experienced, but Mr D 
hasnt provided this information. So, I havent seen any evidence that he contacted the 
dealership, or MotoNovo, prior to late February 2020, when hed had the car for five months 
and had travelled some 4,000 miles. I think that if there had been a concerning noise from 
the vehicle its likely that Mr D wouldve taken the car to the dealership or another garage to 
investigate it sooner. 
MotoNovo arranged for an inspection of the vehicle in April 2019, and the report concluded 
that there was no fault with the vehicle. Mr D wasnt happy with this report, as he said that 
the car was tested at operating temperature, and the noise occurred most when the vehicle 
was cold. The report confirms that the vehicle was tested at operating temperature.  
The two later engineers have found an abnormal noise, the same as that which Mr D 
described in April 2019. I think it would be too much of a coincidence for the car to develop 
the same fault Mr D had already described if there was no fault in April. I think its more likely 
that the fault was there, but that it was intermittent, and not evident at the time to the 
engineer. The problem has then gotten worse and so it was evident to the two other 
engineers. 
Mr D had travelled some 5,000 miles in the car at the time of the first inspection, and 
approximately a further 5,000 miles at the time that the third inspection was completed. So, 
Mr D appears to have been able to use the vehicle without any significant issue for some 
time. 
Based on the evidence available, Im not persuaded that the car was of unsatisfactory quality 
at the time that it was supplied to Mr D. He had driven a fair distance before any fault was 
reported, and he has continued to use the vehicle without major problems for a significant 
period of time after the fault first presented itself. 
The two engineers that were able to experience the fault think its likely to be a worn part, 
and I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that this is a part that wouldnt normally 
wear and require regular maintenance. Given the age and mileage of the vehicle at the time that it was supplied, and the use that Mr 
D has had of it since owning it, it seems more likely that the fault is due to fair wear and tear 
rather than an inherent defect with the vehicle. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman