DRN-2200842
The complaint
Mr L complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) was irresponsible to lend 
to him.
What happened
Mr L borrowed £500 from Lending Stream on 8 Jan 2017. It was to be repaid with six 
monthly instalments, the highest of which was £212. The final instalment was due on 30 
June 2017, but Mr L made no repayments.
Mr L says the loan was unaffordable and he had to borrow more money in order to make the 
repayments. He adds that he was unwell when he applied for the loan and is still suffering 
due to stress and the effect on his credit file.
Lending Stream says it asked Mr L about his income and expenditure and checked his credit 
file. It says that it compared the declared figures with independent data sources and, based 
on the information it had, it found the loan to be affordable. Lending Stream offered to set up 
a repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said there was 
nothing in the available information that should have indicated to Lending Stream that the 
loan was unaffordable.
Mr L says he was in very poor health in January 2017 and was not acting with full cognitive 
function. He says he had a number of other outstanding debts and County Court 
Judgements at the time and his credit score could not have been as high as Lending Stream 
suggests. He also adds that Lending Stream is impossible to contact.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
When Mr L applied for the loan, Lending Stream asked him for information about his income 
and expenditure. I have seen evidence that shows Mr L declared an income of £2,100, with 
expenditure of £1,214 per month. Although this gave him a disposable income of £886, 
based on its own checks, Lending Stream calculated Mr L had a slightly lower disposable 
income of £790. Given the highest monthly repayment over the term of the loan was £212, 
these checks showed the loan was affordable to Mr L.
Ive also seen the results of the credit check carried out by Lending Stream at the time. This 
shows Mr L had a fair credit score and, although he had one default on his account, it was 
recorded 29 months earlier.
So I dont consider there was anything in the available information that should have indicated 
to Lending Stream that it needed to do further checks and Im satisfied it was reasonable to 
conclude the loan was affordable and that Mr L was not struggling to manage his money.
I acknowledge that Mr L says he wasnt well at the time of the loan application, but I cant 
see that Lending Stream knew that at the time. However, I would encourage Mr L to contact 
Lending Stream to discuss an affordable repayment plan going forward. Although I accept 
Mr L says hes found them difficult to contact in recent months, I understand Lending Stream 
is now working more normally.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman