DRN-3416859
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Seat 
Financial Services (VWFS), reported negative information on her credit file.
What happened
In November 2020, Miss A entered into a Hire Purchase Agreement with VWFS to acquire a 
new car. The cash price of the car was around £18,158. The amount of credit was around 
£17,325. Miss A provided an advance payment of around £833, and there were 48 monthly 
repayments of around £384 followed by a final payment of approximately £6,503.  
In March 2021, Miss A requested a payment deferral from VWFS because she needed 
financial support due to being impacted as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Miss A said 
that she was informed that there will be no negative impact on her credit file as a result of 
the payment deferral. The payment deferral was eventually approved by VWFS, but later on 
Miss A said that she found out that her credit file had been negatively impacted, so she 
raised a complaint with VWFS. She said they incorrectly reported adverse information on her 
credit file which prevented her from getting credit. She is also unhappy with that amount of 
time this took to resolve and the customer service she received when dealing with this issue. 
Miss A said she had to make a lot of calls to VWFS during the deferral application process to 
get her credit file amended and because they were incorrectly sending her arrears letters. 
So, in summary, she wants VWFS to pay her compensation for the impact this had on her. 
In May 2021, VWFS wrote to Miss A. In this correspondence they explained that her 
agreement was stuck in a suspended state due to the payment deferral request, and that 
sometimes this error may occur, but they assured her that they have rectified this for her and 
amended her credit file. They have also paid Miss A £75 compensation. 
Miss A was unhappy with VWFS response, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought the £75 compensation was fair and reasonable considering the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Miss A disagreed; She was not happy with the amount of compensation because she felt 
that it didnt properly reflect the impact this hand on her and asked for a decision to be 
issued by an ombudsman. 
While the complaint was awaiting a final decision, VWFS offered to increase the 
compensation to £250. Miss A said that if VWFS make a one of payment to her of £500 she 
will accept the matter as resolved. VWFS said that they thought that £500 was excessive but 
agreed to get the complaint settled, so they paid her a further £425. Miss A was still unhappy 
as she wanted the £500 in addition to the £75 already paid.
The investigator explained to Miss A that the £500 is likely above what would be expected, 
considering the circumstances of her complaint, so he didnt think he could instruct VWFS to 
pay anymore.
Miss A was still unhappy with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to
assure Miss A and VWFS that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Miss A acquired the car under a Hire Purchase Agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. 
In April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published the guidance  Motor finance 
agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. This guidance introduced 
temporary measures for consumers whose finances had been impacted by Covid-19, and it 
builds on Principle 6: (A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly). The guidance states the following: Where a customer is already experiencing 
or reasonably expects to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of 
circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to receive a payment deferral, a firm 
should grant the customer a payment deferral for three months unless the firm determines 
(acting reasonably) that its obviously not in the customers interests to do so. 
This guidance was further updated by the FCA in July 2020, and I think it is relevant to this 
case, as it builds on the previous guidance. Also, the FCA in September 2020 released 
further guidance called Consumer credit and Coronavirus: Additional Guidance for Firms. I 
believe this guidance is also relevant because under section 4 CRA Reporting the 
guidance says that this specific section sets out FCAs expectations of firms for Credit 
Reference Agency (CRA) reporting when dealing with customers who:  have been granted 
a payment deferral under the July guidance. Im satisfied that all the above FCA guidance 
applies to Miss A, as she was provided with a payment deferral under this guidance. With 
that said, Ive gone on to look at what the guidance said about reporting information to the 
credit reference agencies. 
The FCA guidance says that firms should explain that a worsening status will not be
reported to the customers credit file in respect of any payment deferral taken under this
guidance. Im satisfied that is what VWFS had explained to Miss A. The guidance also says 
In accordance with the relevant Coronavirus Data Reporting Guidance published by the 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) in consultation with SCOR, firms should not report a 
worsening status on the customers credit file during any initial or further payment deferral 
period. So, I am satisfied that VWFS shouldnt have reported adverse information on Miss 
As credit file. But I understand that all adverse information has now been removed from 
Miss As credit file. So, the only issue remaining for me to consider is the impact VWFS 
error had on Miss A.Miss A says that she was unable to get credit while the information on her credit file was 
being incorrectly reported. So, Ive considered this, but Ive not seen enough evidence for 
me to conclude that VWFS reporting of adverse information on Miss As credit file was most 
likely the reason for Miss A directly incurring a loss. From the available evidence, I havent 
seen anything to suggest that the adverse information recorded on her credit file was why 
she couldnt obtain credit. So, I cant say that most likely its VWFS action that directly 
caused her a financial detriment.
Miss A also feels that total of £500 compensation paid to her is not enough because she 
feels that it doesnt properly reflect the impact this situation had on her. She is unhappy as 
she had to make a lot of phone calls, and she was incorrectly receiving arrears letters. So, 
Ive taken into consideration everything she told us about the impact of VWFS mistake had 
on her, and Ive taken into consideration the time it took VWFS to rectify the situation. 
Considering everything, I think VWFS errors have caused Miss A distress and 
inconvenience when she was trying to sort this out. But I think that £500 total compensation, 
that VWFSs paid to Miss A, more than fairly reflects the impact their errors had on her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman