DRN-4248804
The complaint
Mr C has complained British Gas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim against his 
HomeCare insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both Mr C and British Gas so I wont 
repeat it here. In this decision Ill summarise the complaint and focus on giving the reasons 
for reaching the outcome I have. 
Mr C suffers with his health. He contacted British Gas in 2023 after noticing a leak in the 
kitchen ceiling. British Gas attended the following day but declined to carry out repairs as the 
leak was said to have been coming from the spa bath which isnt covered. Mr C wasnt 
happy with this and complained. He says British Gas have carried out previous repairs on 
the spa bath, and the policy information he received at renewal made no mention of spa 
baths not being covered. 
British Gas responded to say the renewal information highlighted the key policy facts. But 
included in this information was the policy terms, which set out on page 12 spa baths arent 
covered. They did, however, offer to reattend, gain access and make repairs if the leak 
wasnt coming from the spa bath. And if it was, while they wouldnt repair it, they would leave 
access open for Mr C to arrange for his own engineer to undertake repairs. Mr C declined 
this and asked our Service for an impartial review on British Gas handling of matters. 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied the policy 
didnt provide cover for spa baths, and thought British Gas acted reasonably when offering to 
reattend. Mr C didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Many points have been made in relation to this matter  I havent addressed each one 
individually. In this decision Ive focused on what I consider to be the pertinent points. That 
isnt meant as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. I also 
acknowledge Mr Cs request for a phone call ahead of my decision, but I dont think thats 
appropriate here because I consider there to be enough information available to reach a fair 
and reasonable decision on the matter, which Ive set out below. 
My starting point here is the policy terms which set out under the plumbing section that spa 
baths arent covered. Im satisfied British Gas attended Mr Cs property within a reasonable 
timeframe of him reporting the problem, and the engineer considered the leak to be coming 
from the spa bath. British Gas relied on their engineers findings to decline the claim and its 
my opinion this was reasonable. 
I acknowledge Mr C says the policy renewal information received didnt make mention of spa 
baths not being covered. I agree the document hes referred to  the important product 
information document  does not state this. Thats because this document only sets out 
some key facts about the product and wont include everything. Within the renewal 
information, however, it also included a copy of the policy terms and conditions which sets 
out whats covered and whats not, amongst other things, within the contract of insurance. 
So, Im not persuaded British Gas failed to make this policy exclusion clear. 
British Gas offered to reattend to make access underneath the spa bath and leave access 
open for Mr C to employ his own engineer to attend and make repairs. I find this was 
reasonable. I could see an argument that British Gas ought to have done more during the 
2023 engineer visit to confirm the source of the leak was the spa bath. But that being said, 
as mentioned above, I find it was reasonable for British Gas to rely on the expert opinion of 
their engineer  who attended Mr Cs property  to conclude the policy didnt cover the 
problem Mr C reported, which the engineer considered arose from the spa bath. And 
currently, theres a lack of evidence to support British Gas engineer was incorrect in their 
2023 diagnosis. 
British Gas have said the option for them to reattend remains open to Mr C. As such, Mr C 
should contact British Gas if he wishes for this to happen. I, however, wont be requiring 
British Gas to take any further action. I say this because Im not persuaded based on the 
information available, theyve made an error here or should refund any premiums paid. 
I accept this wont be the outcome Mr C was hoping for, but this decision ends our Services 
involvement in attempting to informally resolve his dispute with British Gas. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman