DRN-3260559
The complaint
Mr M complains about Nationwide Building Societys actions after he raised a chargeback 
dispute. Mr M also complains that Nationwide closed his account. 
What happened
Mr M had a current account with Nationwide and used it to purchase an item. Mr M has 
explained the product he purchased didnt work as advertised so contacted the merchant 
which arranged for it to be collected. 
On 23 November 2020 Mr M raised a chargeback claim with Nationwide. Nationwide says it 
asked Mr M to provide evidence to show the date the product was collected in December 
2020 but it wasnt provided. Mr M says he sent Nationwide evidence to support his claim. 
The chargeback claim wasnt completed by Nationwide but the merchant issued a refund 
which was applied to Mr Ms account. 
Mr M complained about the process of receiving a refund and the way his chargeback claim 
had been handled. Nationwide issued several responses to Mr Ms complaint and ultimately 
took the decision of closing his account. Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M referred his case to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Nationwide had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr 
M didnt agree and said hed sent Nationwide evidence to show the item had been returned 
to the merchant. As Mr M and the investigator didnt agree, his complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has forwarded lots of evidence to show what happened after he tried to return the 
product in question. Ive seen everything Mr M has sent, including pictures of the product 
along with his exchanges with the merchant when he was trying to arrange collection. 
Nationwide asked Mr M to send evidence to show the item was collected by the merchant in 
order to process the chargeback claim. Whilst I can see Mr M has provided lots of 
information, it doesnt include evidence to show how the return delivery was completed. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I havent been persuaded Nationwide acted unfairly. In my 
view, Nationwide asked for reasonable evidence to show the item had been returned. As the 
information Nationwide requested wasnt provided, it didnt complete the chargeback 
process. Im satisfied thats reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. 
The merchant ultimately refunded Mr Ms money. I understand that took involvement from Mr 
M who found the process frustrating. But I havent found any evidence that shows 
Nationwide treated him unfairly or made mistakes in the way it processed Mr Ms 
chargeback claim. 
Nationwide took the decision to close Mr Ms account following difficult exchanges when 
talking about his complaint. Ive looked at the account terms and they allow Nationwide to 
take that step. As Nationwide gave Mr M reasonable notice of its intention to close his 
account and acted in line with the account terms, I havent been persuaded it acted unfairly.
As Im satisfied Nationwide dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman