DRN-3468583
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined their application to transfer 
or port their mortgage to another property. As a result, they incurred an early repayment 
charge (ERC).
What happened
In 2017, Mr and Mrs R took out a fixed rate mortgage with Santander. An ERC applied if the 
mortgage was repaid before August 2022.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs R applied to port their mortgage to a new property. But Santander 
declined their application. As a result, they incurred an ERC when they repaid the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs R consider that Santanders reasons for declining the application were flawed 
and based on incorrect information it held about the property they wanted to buy.
I issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings (which form part of this decision) 
were:
Santanders final response said that the decision to decline the application was because the 
property didnt meet the definition of a single dwelling, it was subject to an overage 
agreement, it included horse riding facilities and it wasnt clear if they would be used by the 
public, and the property came with an option to buy more land. It said the first two reasons 
were outside its policy and the second two may be although it would need to clarify.
Santander also said that the application failed affordability checks.
When I asked Santander for clarification, the case was reviewed by an underwriter. They 
said that the application was declined solely because of the suitability of the property. They 
said that affordability had not been assessed. That was not the deciding factor and had not 
been fully investigated because the property didnt meet Santanders policy. It was only the 
multiple dwellings and overage agreement that were issues.
That leaves the questions of whether the property was a single dwelling and if it had an 
overage agreement.
Mr and Mrs R have provided evidence to show that the property does not have an 
overage agreement. It is a copy of the title deed. It is also consistent with what they have 
said all along  that the property used to have an overage agreement and that was 
reflected in out of date sales literature. This is supported by Santanders own submissions 
that accept that it discovered the overage agreement by looking up the property online. Im 
satisfied this related to an earlier unsuccessful attempt to sell the property.
What I need to decide is whether it was reasonable for Santander to reach the conclusion 
that the property did not meet its definition of a single dwelling  its policy says properties 
with annexes and/or ancillary accommodation occupied in conjunction with the main 
residence will be treated as a single dwelling.
Mr and Mrs R have been clear and consistent that it was always their intention to occupy 
the whole house. They have provided a letter from a qualified chartered surveyor, which 
confirms the property contains an area which could be used as ancillary accommodation. 
In the surveyors opinion the property met Santanders definition of a single dwelling.
Santanders policy does not rule out properties with annexes or ancillary accommodation 
as long as it is occupied in conjunction with the main residence. I am struggling to see 
how the property did not meet the definition. It isnt in dispute that there was ancillary 
accommodation, but Mr and Mrs R have told us they intended to occupy it in conjunction 
with their main residence. There is no evidence at all to suggest they ever intended to do 
otherwise.
There is also the issue of the stamp duty multiple dwelling relief. Mr and Mrs R have 
provided evidence that at the time in question they could legitimately claim this relief and 
the property would still meet Santanders definition of a single dwelling. When I put that 
evidence to Santander it said that Mr and Mrs R told it that the property was eligible for 
that relief because it had three self-contained flats. I invited Santander if it didnt agree with 
Mr and Mrs Rs interpretation of the rules around claiming stamp duty relief for multiple 
dwellings then it should let me know why and provide evidence to support what it has said. 
It hasnt done so.
Looking at the evidence we have I consider it is likely that Santander has incorrectly 
conflated the ability to claim multiple dwelling stamp duty relief with its definition of a 
multiple dwelling. But they are two separate things. The fact that Mr and Mrs R claimed 
that relief isnt relevant in this case in determining whether the property met Santanders 
definition of a single dwelling.
The surveyor that Mr and Mrs R instructed said it would have been good practice for 
Santander to instruct a surveyor to inspect he property and give a professional opinion on 
whether it was a single dwelling or not. I agree that would have been fairer in the 
circumstances. Santander said there was no point because all it would prove was that 
there was other self-contained accommodation at the property and it had no way of 
checking that Mr and Mrs R would occupy it as part of a single dwelling. But if that was 
the case, then it isnt clear how Santander could ever satisfy itself that a property with 
annexes or ancillary accommodation was going to be occupied in conjunction with the 
main residence.
I also asked Santander what its intention was in setting this policy. In other words what 
risks was it trying to avoid. It didnt respond.
Overall, Im not satisfied that Santander has provided a cogent argument that the 
property did not, in fact, meet its lending policy or that it has applied its policy correctly 
in the circumstances of this case.
After carefully looking at all of the evidence we have, I dont consider Santander has 
acted fairly and reasonably because:
On the face of it the property met its lending policy  although there was ancillary 
accommodation Mr and Mrs R intended to occupy it in conjunction with their main 
residence. There was an outbuilding, but we have evidence this is not suitable to 
be used as a dwelling.
It based too much of its decision on speculation, assumptions and out of date and 
incorrect information. And it didnt listen to Mr and Mrs R when they tried to correct it. I consider it would have been good practice for Santander to take steps to check 
if its understanding was correct, bearing in mind the implications to Mr and Mrs R of 
their application being declined.
It placed too much weight on the fact that Mr and Mrs R were claiming multiple 
dwelling stamp duty relief.
It didnt arrange for a survey to be carried out.
It hasnt presented a persuasive case to show that Mr and Mrs Rs application was 
considered fairly and objectively. In my experience, the underwriter went further than good 
practice would require in making assumptions about Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances. While I 
agree that many of those points were valid and might need to be explored before 
Santander could approve the application, to an impartial person they look like reasons why 
the application was declined. Santander has confirmed that wasnt correct. But its own final 
response stated that affordability was a reason for the decline  and that is what I initially 
thought. Looking at the notes overall, they dont support that the application was being 
considered objectively and fairly.
I accept that Santander has a very wide discretion about what properties it considers to be 
acceptable security. I would be very reluctant to interfere in that. But it should be 
straightforward for a mortgage lender to demonstrate that it has fairly applied its policy 
when making a decision. I dont think it has done so here.
I accept that we dont know whether Mr and Mrs R would have qualified for a mortgage 
had they undergone all of the checks. They were looking to borrow almost £200,000 more. 
But they have also said that they would have been able to increase their deposit so that 
the amount of borrowing was the same as they already had. In those circumstances, 
under the relevant rules, it was unlikely that Santander would have been able to decline 
the application on affordability grounds. In any event, Mr and Mrs R have disputed many of 
the points that Santander made in regard to affordability. Bearing in mind they were able to 
source an alternative mortgage, it is likely that after completing more thorough checks, 
Santander would have found the increased mortgage was affordable. But it is difficult for 
me to undertake a full assessment here. It was Santanders decision not to fairly consider 
the application, so I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Mr and Mrs R to lose out 
as a result of that.
In all the circumstances, I consider it would be fair and reasonable for Santander to refund 
the ERC in full with interest. Its clear that Mr and Mrs R have been caused distress and 
inconvenience because of the way that Santander dealt with their application. They would 
always have had to go through a full application  but they wasted time and effort in 
pursuing the abortive application. They also had the upset of incurring a significant ERC. 
Along with the trouble of having to pursue their complaint to this extent. After looking at 
what happened and what Mr and Mrs R have said, I consider that Santander should pay 
them £350 to reflect that.
Santander should also refund any costs that Mr and Mrs R incurred in obtaining a letter 
from a chartered surveyor in respect of this complaint, if they provide evidence of the 
amount paid.
Mr and Mrs R accepted my provisional decision. Santander did not. It made a number of 
points, including:It had been correct in determining that the property was not suitable for mortgage 
purposes based on the statement by Mr R that the property contained flats.
There is no doubt that the property was more than one unit at the time of purchase. If 
a valuation had been carried out a value of not applicable would be returned, with 
only a figure for the value of the property after it had been converted back to a single 
dwelling.
It provided the guidance it issues to surveyors to consider for properties with annexes. 
The guidance said that it will consider lending on a property with annexe 
accommodation if it is appropriate to the type of property and locality. The valuer 
should take into account the relative size of the two areas of accommodation and the 
current configuration  but the prime consideration is whether the property is readily 
marketable as a single residential unit for owner occupation. If there is evidence that 
the annexe has been let to unrelated parties on an assures shorthold tenancy 
agreement it is unlikely to meet Santanders requirements.
At the point of purchase the property would not meet its policy, although the property 
could be altered to meet its policy. But no funds would be released until the property 
had been converted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have said, it is for Santander to decide what properties it accepts as security. But it 
operates a policy. For it to treat Mr and Mrs R fairly and reasonably it musty apply its policy 
in an objective and fair way. I have very carefully considered all of the evidence that 
Santander has provided. It has not persuaded me that it has interpreted (or applied) its 
policy in a fair or reasonable way in the individual circumstances of this case.
I say that because:
Santanders policy allowed properties with annexes and/or ancillary accommodation 
occupied in conjunction with the main residence will be treated as a single dwelling. Mr 
and Mrs R have always said they intended to occupy all of the property as a single 
dwelling  even though it had ancillary accommodation.
Santander didnt arrange for a survey to be carried out. It said in response to my 
provisional decision that if a valuation had been undertaken, the surveyor would have 
provided no value unless the property was converted into a single unit of 
accommodation. But Santander has not provided any evidence to support that is what 
would have happened. In fact, the evidence it has provided contradicts what it has told 
me. The policy allows annexes and ancillary accommodation where it is occupied in 
conjunction with the main residence. So it is not clear why the property would need to be 
converted. 
Further, Santander has also provided a copy of its guidance to surveyors in respect of 
properties with annexes. I am surprised that Santander has only provided this 
information at this stage of the complaint  it has had ample opportunity to give us any 
relevant evidence. But it doesnt help its case. I say that as the guidance sets out that 
properties with annexes (Ive assumed it applies to ancillary accommodation too) are 
acceptable subject to a number of factors. First, if Santander has such guidance, it goes 
against its position that there was no point in getting a survey done. Why would it have this guidance if it would never lend in these circumstances? Second, the guidance puts a 
lot of emphasis on the surveyors judgement on whether the property would be used a 
single dwelling. Mr and Mrs R have provided an opinion from a chartered surveyor that 
the property did meet Santanders definition of a single dwelling. It seems more likely 
that a surveyor instructed at the time would have reached a similar conclusion, taking 
into account the evidence available to me. Third, the guidance puts some emphasis on 
the property being marketed as a single dwelling and not being occupied by tenants. 
Santander relied (incorrectly in my view) on out of date sale literature. But the property 
was being marketed as a single dwelling. And there is no evidence that any of the self-
contained accommodation was ever let.
I consider that if Santander has acted fairly, it would have instructed a surveyor to 
determine if the property met its definition of a single dwelling. If it had, based on the 
evidence available to me, it seems more likely than not that the surveyor would have 
found that the property was a single dwelling  while it had ancillary accommodation, it 
was going to be (and could be) used in conjunction with the main residence.
Santander based too much of its decision on speculation, assumptions and out of 
date and incorrect information. And it didnt listen to Mr and Mrs R when they tried to 
correct it. I consider it would have been good practice for Santander to take steps to 
check if its understanding was correct, bearing in mind the implications to Mr and 
Mrs R of their application being declined.
Santander placed too much weight on the fact that Mr and Mrs R were claiming 
multiple dwelling stamp duty relief.
For those reasons, and the reasons set out in my provisional decision (above) I dont 
consider that Santander fairly and reasonably considered Mr and Mrs Rs application. It 
hasnt been able to persuade me or provide evidence to support that the decision it made 
was reached fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this case. It was Santanders 
decision not to fairly consider the application, so I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
for Mr and Mrs R to lose out as a result of that.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should:
Refund the ERC (which I understand to be) £58,533.79.
Refund any costs in obtaining a letter from a chartered surveyor in respect of 
this complaint  upon evidence of payment.
Pay interest on the above amounts at 8% simple per year from the date paid until date 
of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs R £350 for any distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman