DRN-1438344
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about poor advice and service given to them by an appointed 
representative of Personal Touch Financial Services Ltd, part of the PRIMIS Mortgage 
Network. Mr and Mrs B ask for compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B contacted Personal Touch in November 2018 as they wanted to re-finance 
their mortgage. They say they were repeatedly asked for more information, which they didnt 
consider necessary. And they say the adviser told them they wouldnt be offered a mortgage 
while they had £43,000 of credit card debts. 
Mr B took out a lump sum from his pension and repaid the credit card debts. When they tried 
to contact the adviser in January 2019 they found she was no longer working with Personal 
Touch. This worried them as the term of their existing mortgage was about to expire.
Another mortgage broker was able to source a mortgage for them quickly. Mr and Mrs B say 
he told them lenders werent interested in the credit card debts.
Personal Touch said it hadnt told Mr and Mrs B to repay the debts and didnt know Mr B 
intended to take money from his pension. It offered compensation of £300 for the 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs B by having to re-start the application process with a 
different mortgage adviser. Mr and Mrs B say theyve lost out by withdrawing £43,000 from 
Mr Bs pension and now have to pay the related tax of about £6,800. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said there was no 
evidence the adviser told Mr and Mrs B to clear their credit card debts. Personal Touch didnt 
know that Mr B was taking a lump sum from his pension. And while the adviser leaving 
Personal Touch caused some inconvenience, it didnt cause any loss.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. Mrs B said she couldnt find any written evidence that Personal 
Touch said a consolidation loan wasnt possible. She said the adviser dragged the whole 
process out for so long that by the time she told them they couldnt afford a consolidation 
loan they felt their only course of action was to withdraw pension funds. Mrs B said if theyd 
know the adviser had left Personal Touch in mid-December 2018 they could have gone 
elsewhere and their decisions would have been different.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Did Personal Touch advise Mr and Mrs B to repay their credit card debts?
Did it advise them to fund this by withdrawing money from Mr Bs pension?
Mr and Mrs B had credit card debts of about £43,000, costing about £1,350 per month. 
Personal Touch says while the debts were outstanding Mr and Mrs Bs monthly outgoings 
meant the maximum mortgage loan they could afford to borrow was about £45,000. This 
was less than they needed to borrow. The adviser says she told Mr and Mrs B they could 
look into consolidating the debt into a new mortgage or repaying the debts before the 
mortgage application, if they had the means to do so. 
On 13 December 2018 the adviser emailed Mrs B to say due to Mr Bs age and the level of 
debt consolidation shed need to get the case authorised internally before applying to the 
lender. She said shed need all supporting documents, including full credit card statements. 
Mrs B spoke to the mortgage adviser on 14 December 2018. The adviser says she told 
Mrs B about her options  to consolidate or repay the debts  but didnt go into detail as 
Mrs B was in shock after an accident. Mrs B says she thinks this is when the adviser said 
she wouldnt be able to get a consolidation loan, so theyd have to clear their debts. 
However, Mrs B also says she cant remember what was said as shed had an accident the 
previous day. 
On 16 December 2018 Mrs B sent an email to the adviser saying they intended to repay the 
debts before proceeding with the mortgage. The adviser replied the next day saying shed 
need evidence of the funds used to pay the credit card debts such as savings account 
statement, encashment or similar. While Mrs B says she phoned the adviser and said theyd 
be using money from Mr Bs pension, none of the emails or notes provided to me refer to this 
call. Theres no email or other record of Mrs B sending evidence of the funds (such as 
account statements), as requested by the adviser. 
On 7 January 2019 Mrs B emailed the adviser saying they expected to receive funds to clear 
the credit card debts later that week. The email didnt say where the funds would come from. 
The adviser replied saying she couldnt continue with their application as she was changing 
networks. 
The adviser told Mr and Mrs B at the outset they wouldnt be able to borrow the loan amount 
they wanted while their credit card debts were outstanding. There was a discussion about 
their options  to take out a consolidation loan or repay debts, if they had the means to do 
so. Theres no written record (such as an email, letter or notes) of Personal Touch telling Mr 
and Mrs B they had to clear their credit card debts. While Mrs B says she was told this on a 
call she also says she cant remember what was said on that call. 
While Mrs B says she told Personal Touch they intended to use money from Mr Bs pension, 
the available evidence doesnt support this. On balance, I dont think Personal Touch told Mr 
and Mrs B to clear the debts. I dont think it told them to take money from Mr Bs pension to 
fund this, and I dont think Personal Touch was aware this was what theyd decided to do.
did Personal Touch delay the application process?
Mr and Mrs B say the adviser repeatedly told them she had the information she needed, 
then asked for more. Personal Touch says the adviser had to ask for more information as Mr 
and Mrs B hadnt given her complete information about their financial circumstances and 
some of the documents they sent were incomplete. The available evidence supports what 
Personal Touch says  the adviser sent emails asking for information. I dont think what she 
asked for was unreasonable.Theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs B tried to contact Personal Touch between 17 
December 2018 and 7 January 2019. I dont think its reasonable to say Personal Touch 
could have progressed the application during this time, as Mr and Mrs B hadnt provided the 
information it had asked for.
When Mr and Mrs B contacted the adviser in January 2019 she responded to say she 
couldnt take the application forward. She returned original documents on 9 January and 
copies on 11 January 2019. Personal Touch offered to put Mr and Mrs B in touch with 
another adviser, but they said theyd already gone elsewhere.
It was unfortunate that the adviser left Personal Touch while dealing with Mr and Mrs Bs 
application. But I dont think this caused delays. Mr and Mrs B chose to repay their credit 
card debts before making the application. Having done so, they made an application in about 
the same time scale as theyd have done if theyd continued with Personal Touch.
Mr and Mrs B had to repeat some of the application process and provide documents to the 
new adviser. I think Personal Touchs offer of £300 for the inconvenience this caused is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I find the compensation 
offered by Personal Touch Financial Services Ltd is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman