DRN-3436104
The complaint
Mr T complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt match his garages brickwork when 
making repairs, following a claim on his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T made a subsidence claim for damage to his detached garage. The claim was managed 
by a third-party, who appointed a contractor for the repair. Most of the left elevation, and the 
rear elevation, were rebuilt.
Mr T was unhappy that the new bricks didnt match the existing bricks. In response to his 
complaint, UKI set out the following:
- Mr T was offered a choice of bricks, and he choose the bricks in question. The bricks 
were also on site for a few weeks before the work started, so he had an opportunity 
to view them.
- Its almost impossible to get an exact match when replacing brickwork. However, the 
new bricks will weather over time.
- UKI has proposed to extend the new brickwork to the full length of the left elevation 
and to the two undamaged front pillars, which will provide consistent brickwork to 
the visible areas of the garage.
In response, Mr T made the following points:
- Whilst he was provided with brick samples to choose from, he wasnt told the brick he 
chose would come in multiple colours. It also wasnt his responsibility to check the 
bricks once they were on site, and they were in a fenced-off area and covered.
- After the first three rows had been laid, he raised that the new bricks didnt match the 
existing bricks, with the contractors on site. He also followed up with an email to the 
project manager. However, the contractors chose to continue.
- The contractors told him the new bricks wont weather significantly. Any prospective 
buyer of the property will likely negotiate on the price due to the appearance of the 
garage brickwork.
- As a compromise, hes willing to have the left elevation rebuilt in a correct brick, that 
wont look out of place next to the surrounding properties (the rear elevation is out of 
view).
UKI declined Mr Ts suggested compromise. UKI noted the solution it had offered would 
already be at a significant cost, over and above the policy cover.
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. It was considered by one of our investigators, but 
she didnt think it should be upheld. Because Mr T disagreed, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T says only three rows of the new brick had been laid when he raised concerns about the 
colour mismatch. On the other hand, UKI says the work was halfway through and Mr T didnt 
ask the contractors to stop. In Mr Ts follow up email to the project manager he didnt say 
what stage the work was at, or that he wanted the work to be stopped. But in any event, 
given the materials were on site and the work was underway, Im not persuaded it was 
unreasonable the contractors finished the job. 
Mr T says the sample he was given for the chosen brick didnt represent the range of colours 
it came in, and the bricks were covered and inaccessible whilst they were on site prior to the 
work. Mr T also says the new contractor, who was appointed for the snagging, was able to 
match the existing brickwork. However, even if I were to accept what Mr T says, it doesnt 
lead me to the conclusion that the bricks provided were unreasonable. I say this because, 
having reviewed the photos, the existing bricks also appear to be multi-coloured, albeit 
lighter in colour.
Having thought about matters carefully, overall, I consider UKIs offer to replace the rest of 
the left elevation and the two front pillars with the new brick to be fair and reasonable. As 
I understand it, that will give the garage a consistent appearance.
I accept the garage will have a different appearance to the surrounding properties. However,
that doesnt persuade me UKI should incur further costs beyond the offer its already made, 
as there may still be a difference between any further replacement bricks and the original 
bricks.
Mr T can ask UKI if it would be prepared to cash settle the further work its offering to do, so 
he can put that money towards the work he wants done. Mr T can then arrange that work 
privately. I havent seen any reason why UKI wouldnt give Mr T the money it would have 
paid its contractor to do the further work, but if theres a dispute about that, a new 
complaint can be made. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, but for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman