DRN-3604159
The complaint
Mr B and Miss C have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
declined a claim for their locks under a home contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Miss C were locked out of their home when they both left their keys in the property. 
They phoned a locksmith who helped them gain entry to their home. Mr B and Miss C then 
contacted RSA to make a claim for the cost of the locksmith. RSA declined the claim 
because it said there wasnt any cover under the policy as the keys werent lost. When Mr B 
and Miss C complained, RSA maintained its decision to decline the claim.
So, Mr B and Miss C contacted this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said it was reasonable for RSA to decline the claim because there wasnt cover under 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
As Mr B and Miss C didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The policy provided cover for:
Accidental damage to the locks of the outside doors of your home.
Loss of the keys to the outside doors of your home.
So, Ive thought about whether the keys were lost. Mr B and Miss C knew where the keys 
were, but they couldnt get access to them because the keys were inside their home. Im 
aware that Mr B has said that lost could also mean irretrievable. He also provided a 
dictionary definition of lost as unable to be found or recovered and seemed to put 
particular weight on the word recovered. Ive looked at the dictionary definition of recover, 
which is Regain possession or use or control of, acquire or find (out) again. Mr B and Miss 
C were able to retrieve, or recover, the keys by calling a locksmith and gaining access to the 
property. So, I think it was fair for RSA to say the keys werent lost. I also dont think the 
wording or cover provided by RSA for locks and keys was unusual.
Ive also thought about whether the claim should be covered as accidental damage to the 
lock. The policy said:
By accidental damage we mean sudden, unexpected and visible damage that wasnt 
caused on purpose.
I dont think I can fairly say what happened was covered by this part of the policy. The 
damage to the lock was the result of the decision by the locksmith to deliberately drill into it 
to gain access to the property. So, that wasnt accidental damage.
Im aware of the distress and financial concerns Mr B and Miss C described and I was sorry 
to read this. But, thinking about all of the above, I think it was reasonable for RSA to decline 
the claim for the locks, as there wasnt cover under the policy. As a result, I dont uphold this 
complaint or require RSA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman