DRN-4042103
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs T complain that Vacation Finance Limited wont refund to them the money that 
they paid for a holiday club membership. Theyre being represented in their complaint by a 
legal adviser.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2023 in which I described what 
had happened as follows:
Mr S and Mrs T entered into a membership application agreement to buy a holiday 
club membership in October 2017. The membership application fee was £16,750 and 
they entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Vacation Finance for a loan of 
£11,725. Mr S also paid £5,025 using a credit card. Mr S and Mrs T agreed to make 
120 monthly payments of £152.36 to Vacation Finance but the loan was repaid in 
March 2018 as Mr S transferred £4,500 to Vacation Finance from a bank account in 
December 2017 and he then repaid £6,774.83 using a credit card in March 2018.
Mr S and Mrs Ts representative complained to Vacation Finance in July 2020 that 
the membership had been misrepresented to Mr S and Mrs T, that there had been a 
breach of contract and that the lending had been irresponsible. Claims were made 
under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and Mr S and Mrs Ts 
representative provided documents including the particulars of the complaint and a 
witness statement from Mr S. Vacation Finance didnt provide a substantive response 
so a complaint was made to this service. A complaint was also made to Mr Ss credit 
card company but that complaint is being dealt with separately.
Our investigator recommended that Mr S and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. 
She thought that the holiday company had misrepresented the membership as 
something that could be resold in the future so Mr S and Mrs T had paid for a product 
that they would otherwise not have purchased. She recommended that Vacation 
Finance should: cancel the loan and refund all of the loan repayments, with interest; 
amend any adverse markers on Mr S and Mrs Ts credit files; and refund any 
maintenance fees paid for the years in which the membership wasnt utilised, with 
interest.
Our investigator also recommended that Mr Ss complaint about his credit card 
company should be upheld and that, amongst other things, his credit card account 
should be reworked as if the payment of £5,025 hadnt been made in October 2017. 
The credit card company offered to refund £5,025, with interest, to Mr S but Vacation 
Finance hasnt responded to those recommendations. Mr S and Mrs Ts 
representative says that Vacation Finance and the credit card company are jointly 
and severally liable for the losses so the credit card company is liable to make full 
redress and an apportionment between lenders is only acceptable if both lenders 
accept the recommendations and pay the compensation.
I set out my provisional findings in my provisional decision which were as follows:
Mr S and Mrs Ts representative complained to Vacation Finance under sections 75 and 
140A and about its irresponsible lending. It said that Mr S and Mrs T were told that:
they would be investing in their holidays by securing future holidays that would be 
significantly cheaper than would be available on the open market;
there was a ready re-sale market for their membership so Mr S and Mrs T would 
be able to sell it and that there were good prospects of it increasing in value;
the offer was only available for a very limited time and that if they didnt purchase 
the offer would no longer be available; and
the resorts were exclusive to club members and werent open to the public.
Mr S also says that they were advised that theyd be paid £1,000 if they surrendered a 
holiday week.
Vacation Finance provided a detailed response to our investigator in which it said that:
it hadnt seen any evidence that Mr S and Mrs T werent able to enjoy the 
holidays which was their motivation for entering into the purchase, it provided 
their purchase and usage history and said that they visited the resort multiple 
times after purchasing their membership;
the membership wasnt sold as an asset that would increase in value;
it hadnt seen any evidence to demonstrate that Mr S and Mrs T were told that 
the holidays would be significantly cheaper than would be available on the open 
market or that the offer was only available for a limited time  and there are a 
limited number of apartments and timeshare weeks available in the resort so if it 
they were told that the offer would only be available for a limited time that 
wouldnt be untrue;
the accommodation which supports the holiday clubs is only available to club 
members (and for promotional holidays provided by the holiday company) but 
other parts of the resort can be booked directly with the resort company; and
the holiday club is now operated by another management company and Mr S and 
Mrs Ts membership and holiday bookings remain available.
Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or 
services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier (provided that certain criteria set out in that section are met). Section 
140A gives a court the power, amongst other things, to require a creditor to repay any 
sum paid by the debtor under a credit agreement if it determines that theres an unfair 
relationship between the debtor and the creditor. Im not determining the outcome of Mr 
S and Mrs Ts claims under sections 75 and 140A as only a court would be able to do 
that but Im considering whether or not Vacation Finances response to their claims was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr S has provided a detailed witness statement in which he describes the way that the 
membership was sold to him and Mrs T and the misrepresentations that he says were 
made to them. Their representative has also provided evidence from other purchasers of 
memberships about the way that the sales were made to them but theres no other 
evidence to show that the holiday company misrepresented the membership to Mr S and 
Mrs T.
Mr S and Mrs T signed the membership application agreement in five places, they 
entered into an exchange membership contract, they signed a separate standard withdrawal form which set out their right to withdraw from the agreement and they 
initialled each page of a standard information form.
The membership application agreement says: This Agreement shall constitute the sole 
agreement between the parties and supercedes all prior agreement, representations, 
discussions and negotiations between the parties with respect to the subject matter 
hereof. The standard information form says: The resale programme will be available 
with effect from 1st January 2020. In order to benefit from this facility clients would need 
to apply and agree to the Terms and Conditions on the designated form. An application 
charge of £49 per Membership Certificate applies for a years timeframe.
Ive seen no reference in the membership application agreement or the other documents 
that Mr S and Mrs T signed to the membership being an investment or likely to increase 
in value. A resale programme was to be available from January 2020 so I dont consider 
it to be likely that Mr S and Mrs T wouldve been told that there was a ready re-sale 
market for their membership and Ive seen no documentary evidence from that time to 
show that Mr S and Mrs T were told that there was a ready re-sale market for the 
membership. Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr S and Mrs T contacted the holiday 
company after January 2020 about the resale programme.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mr S was advised that the 
holiday company would pay him and Mrs T £1,000 if they surrendered a holiday week. 
Ive not seen any reference to such a payment in the agreements that they signed and, if 
that was an offer that had be made to them, I consider that it would be reasonable to 
expect them to have asked for written confirmation of that offer.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mr S and Mrs T were told 
that the accommodation would be significantly cheaper than would be available on the 
open market, that the exclusivity of the membership was misrepresented to them or that 
the membership was misrepresented to them in any other significant way. So I dont 
consider that theres enough evidence to show that Mr S and Mrs T were induced into 
buying the membership by misrepresentations made by the holiday company.
I understand that a management company related to the holiday company has stopped 
trading but the holiday company says that a new management company has been 
appointed to provide the membership services and Mr S and Mrs T have kept all of their 
contractual rights and the new holiday company continues to offer a full service for 
members. I dont consider that to be a breach of contract by the holiday company and 
Im not aware of any other breach of contract by the holiday company so Im not 
persuaded that theres been a breach of contract by the holiday company for which 
Vacation Finance would have any liability under section 75.
Mr S and Mrs Ts representative says that there was an unfair relationship between Mr S 
and Mrs T and Vacation Finance because of the alleged misrepresentations, the selling 
practices used by the holiday company (including a lengthy and confusing sales 
presentation), the documents not being clear and easy to understand, the membership 
being sold as an investment and not being suitable for Mr S and Mrs T, the foreclosure 
clause for non-payment of management fees and other unfair clauses; and a secret 
commission paid by Vacation Finance to the holiday company.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mr S and Mrs T were 
unduly pressured into buying the membership or entering into the loan agreement in 
October 2017 or that the holiday company used unacceptable sales practices against 
them. Mr S and Mrs T both signed a separate standard withdrawal form which set out 
their right to withdraw from the membership application agreement. The loan agreement also clearly set out their right to withdraw from the loan agreement without giving any 
reason within 14 days. I consider that it would be reasonable to expect Mr S and Mrs T 
to have read the agreements before they signed them and, if they didnt agree with the 
terms of the agreements, not to have signed them. They would also have been aware of 
their rights to withdraw from them and if the holiday companys sales practices were 
unacceptable to them and they didnt want to be bound by the agreements, I consider 
that it would be reasonable to expect them to have withdrawn from the agreements. But 
Ive seen no evidence to show that they tried to withdraw from either the membership 
application agreement or the loan agreement during the withdrawal periods.
It would be for a court to decide whether the terms of the agreements are unfair. I agree 
with Mr S and Mrs Ts representative that the documents arent as clear and easy to read 
as they could be, but I dont consider that that makes them unfair and Im not persuaded 
that the terms of the agreements are unfair or that its likely that a court would find the 
agreements to be unfair.
Ive not been provided with any evidence to show what commission, if any, was paid by 
Vacation Finance to the holiday company but, from what this service has seen across 
the industry, if commission was ever paid it tended to be low and of less than 10%. Im 
satisfied that Vacation Finance wouldnt have breached any duty in making any such 
payment and wasnt under any regulatory duty to disclose the amount of any commission 
paid in these circumstances. I dont consider that the level of any commission that was 
normally paid in this type of situation was sufficiently high to mean that Vacation Finance 
should have appreciated that not disclosing any commission to Mr S and Mrs T risked 
the relationship being unfair under section 140A.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the relationship between Mr 
S and Mrs T and Vacation Finance was unfair and I dont consider it to be likely that a 
court would find the relationship to be unfair.
Mr S and Mrs Ts representative says that it was irresponsible for Vacation Finance to 
have made the loan to Mr S and Mrs T. Vacation Finance hasnt provided information 
about the credit checks that it made about the affordability of the loan for Mr S and Mrs T 
but, in the questionnaire that they completed, they say that the finance was affordable for 
them. Theyve also provided evidence to show that their joint annual income is more than 
£57,000.
I consider that it would have been reasonable for Vacation Finance to have concluded 
that a loan with monthly repayments of £152.36 was affordable for them at the time that 
the loan was made to them. Mr S repaid the loan within six months and Ive not been 
provided with any evidence to show that the loan wasnt affordable for Mr S and Mrs T. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the loan wasnt affordable 
for them or that Vacation Finance lent to them irresponsibly.
Vacation Finance didnt respond substantively to Mr S and Mrs Ts representatives 
complaint letter so I cant say that its response was fair and reasonable. But I consider 
that the response that it provided to our investigator shows that it has now properly 
considered their claims and I find that it was fair and reasonable for it conclude that their 
claims shouldnt be upheld.
Although I sympathise with Mr S and Mrs T for the issues that Mr S has described in his 
witness statement, I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for 
me to require Vacation Finance to refund to them any of the money that they paid for the 
holiday club membership, to pay them any compensation or to take any other action in 
response to their complaint.Subject to any further comments or evidence that I received from any of Mr S and Mrs T, 
their representative and Vacation Finance, my provisional decision was that I didnt intend to 
uphold this complaint. Vacation Finance said that it agreed with my provisional decision and 
didnt intend to make further representations but Mr S and Mrs Ts representative has 
provided detailed responses to my provisional decision. 
It says, in summary and amongst other things, that:
this was more than a holiday product and was sold as an investment;
the investigator on a similar complaint recommended that it should be upheld and I 
havent explained why the investigator was wrong in reaching the conclusion that he 
did and it has described the obligation that this service is under when investigating 
complaints;
I havent considered Mr Ss detailed witness statement and the evidence from other 
customers of the holiday club  and no evidence has been produced to rebut it  and 
by its very nature the misrepresentations involved oral statements to induce Mr S and 
Mrs T to enter into the agreement; 
the holiday company went into liquidation in May 2020 and correspondence from the 
liquidator stated that there was no club manager and no guarantee that a new 
manager would be appointed and the resale programme was discontinued so Mr S 
and Mrs T were entitled to give notice to accept the breach of contract and terminate 
the agreement;
the resale and rental payment was clearly a key feature of the product but there was 
no viable resale market for it and the reference to resales means that the product 
was not sold purely for holiday purposes;
a breach of the timeshare regulations gives rise to an unfair relationship;
the terms of the purchase agreement and the club rules also give rise to an unfair 
relationship; 
the agreement doesnt bar out reliance placed on oral representations to induce the 
purchase and any clause purporting to bar out a claim based on misrepresentation in 
these circumstances would be unenforceable and anything said by the holiday 
company to induce Mr S and Mrs T to enter into the agreement is incorporated as a 
term of the contract; and
theres been a failure to consider the steps that Vacation Finance took to satisfy itself 
that the loan was both affordable and suitable  Mr S and Mrs Ts ages werent 
considered, the liability for annual maintenance fees was not included in any income 
expenditure calculation and they required a maintenance fee period for 2018 and 
2019 to induce them to make the purchase which was a red flag that the 
membership and loan might not be affordable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change the findings that I set out in my 
provisional decision. I issued a provisional decision because I didnt agree with the 
recommendations made by our investigator. I said in my provisional decision that Id 
considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr S and Mrs Ts complaint  and that includes Mr Ss witness statement - and I described the reasons that I didnt consider that their complaint 
should be upheld. 
I set out in my provisional decision the reasons that I didnt consider that there was enough 
evidence to show that Mr S and Mrs T were induced into buying the membership by 
misrepresentations made by the holiday company. Ive carefully considered Mr S and 
Mrs Ts representatives response to my provisional decision but I dont consider that the 
offer of a future resale programme shows that the membership was an investment. Mr S and 
Mrs T had agreed that a resale programme was to be available from January 2020 and Ive 
seen no evidence to show that they contacted the holiday company after January 2020 
about the resale programme. Im not persuaded that Mr S and Mrs T and their representative 
have provided enough evidence to show that the membership was sold as an investment or 
that it was misrepresented to Mr S and Mrs T. 
This service considers each complaint on its individual merits. I have taken account of the 
evidence that Mr S and Mrs Ts representative has provided from other purchasers of 
memberships about the way that the sales were made to them but Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that the holiday company misrepresented the membership 
to Mr S Mrs T. Mr S and Mrs Ts representative has referred to another complaint that our 
investigator had recommended should be upheld but Ive issued provisional and final 
decisions on that complaint in which I set out the reasons that I found that it shouldnt be 
upheld.
Vacation Finance said that the holiday club was without a manager for a short period of time 
but that a new club manager was been appointed to operate the club and that holiday 
bookings were available. Mr S and Mrs Ts representative has provided evidence to show 
that the holiday company also went into liquidation. I consider that the liquidation of the 
holiday company would be a breach of contract for which Vacation Finance would be liable 
under section 75  but another holiday company has been appointed to provide the services 
under the membership application agreement and other documents that Mr S and Mrs T 
agreed with the holiday company. I understand Mr S and Mrs Ts concerns arising from the 
liquidation of the holiday company but Ive seen no evidence to show that they havent been 
able to use their membership or that theyve been adversely impacted by the liquidation of 
the holiday company. I consider the appointment of the other holiday company to have been 
a suitable remedy for any breach of contract and Im not persuaded that Mr S and Mrs T 
were entitled to terminate the agreement in these circumstances.
Mr S and Mrs Ts representative says that a breach of the timeshare regulations gives rise to 
an unfair relationship and that the terms of the membership application agreement and the 
club rules also give rise to an unfair relationship. Ive carefully considered those but it would 
be for a court to determine whether or not any of the terms are unfair. I dont consider that 
the presence of an unfair (or potentially unfair) term alone is likely to mean that a court would 
conclude that it created an unfair relationship between a debtor and a creditor as the court 
would consider how the term operated in practice and whether the operation of that term 
caused the relationship to be unfair. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show 
that the terms of the documents have been applied or operated unfairly against Mr S and 
Mrs T and I consider it be unlikely that a court would conclude in these circumstances that 
the terms of the documents created an unfair relationship between Mr S and Mrs T and 
Vacation Finance.
Mr S and Mrs Ts representative says that theres been a failure to consider the steps that 
Vacation Finance took to satisfy itself that the loan was both affordable and suitable for Mr S 
and Mrs T. I described in my provisional decision the reasons that I wasnt persuaded that 
there was enough evidence to show that the loan wasnt affordable for them or that Vacation 
Finance lent to them irresponsibly. Im not persuaded that their ages, their liability for annual maintenance charges or any maintenance charge free period is enough to show that the 
loan or the membership wasnt affordable for them or that Vacation Finance lent to them 
irresponsibly.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the relationship between Mr S 
and Mrs T and Vacation Finance was unfair and I dont consider it to be likely that a court 
would find the relationship to be unfair. Vacation Finance didnt respond substantively to 
Mr S and Mrs Ts representatives complaint letter so I cant say that its response was fair 
and reasonable. But I consider that the response that it provided to our investigator showed 
that it had then properly considered their claims and I find that it was fair and reasonable for 
it conclude that their claims shouldnt be upheld.
I sympathise with Mr S and Mrs T for the issues that Mr S described in his witness statement 
but I dont consider that their complaint should be upheld so I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Vacation Finance to refund to them any of the money that they 
paid for the holiday club membership, to pay them any compensation or to take any other 
action in response to their complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman