DRN-3131569
The complaint
Mr M complains about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited, referred to as the 
business.
 
In short, he says:
The business didnt allow him to sell shares he held in Diamond Offshore Drilling 
(Diamond). 
Eventually when he was able to sell, he received less than what he wouldve got, had 
he been able to sell sooner. 
Diamond filed for bankruptcy on 26 April 2020  with shares delisted from the New 
York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on 28 April 2020  but he wasnt informed until 25 
June 2020. 
Hes unhappy about an alert that appeared when he was attempting to buy shares. 
Hes also unhappy that a large portion of his ISA investments have disappeared from 
his portfolio. It took the business five weeks to acknowledge his complaint and 
respond to the issue. 
One of his quarterly reports didnt say which holdings have been sold. For example, 
the August 2020 report shows holdings in Diamond shares and others, whereas the 
November one doesnt show any record including any transaction history.      
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Diamond filed for bankruptcy, as a result of which it was delisted from the NYSE  so 
instead, it had to trade on the Over the Counter (OTC) market. 
Whilst the business allowed for other markets, it didnt support the OTC market, so 
couldnt allow for trades on a market that it didnt have access to. In the 
circumstances, the business didnt behave unreasonably. 
The business offered Mr M the option to transfer his Diamond shares to another 
provider  that had access to the OTC market  therefore its not responsible for any 
losses arising from Diamond filing for bankruptcy and being delisted from the NYSE.
The business is an execution only service which means it doesnt offer advice, 
therefore it wasnt obliged to notify its shareholders that Diamond had filed for 
bankruptcy. The onus is on the customer to be aware of any material changes. 
Information available on its website also made clear that shares can be delisted at 
any time making it difficult or even impossible to sell shares. 
In this instance Mr M was already aware of the situation from a third-party business 
so any impact on him was minimal. 
The issue with the alert and missing holdings dont appear to be linked. It happened 
during the time that Mr M applied to transfer holdings in three companies to a 
different provider. Nevertheless, its not clear what caused it.  
The business makes clear in its terms and conditions that online services arent 
guaranteed to be available, or free of error. If a customer is concerned about 
anything, they can phone the business. 
Although the issue resolved itself a few days later, its clear that Mr M suffered some 
distress and inconvenience. In the circumstances £50 compensation is broadly fair 
and reasonable. 
Although the business took five weeks to respond, it had eight weeks within which to 
provide a final response. 
When the November statement was issued, Mr Ms holdings in the relevant 
companies had been transferred to a new provider. This didnt impact his cash 
balance.  
Its important to note that a business isnt under a regulatory requirement to show 
stock movements, however it can do so if required. In the circumstances, the 
business hasnt made an error in the report provided. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he made the following key points:
The £50 compensation offered  for when £411,000 worth of investments 
disappeared for a few days  is derisory. Hes seeking compensation for distress and 
financial damage as detailed in his complaint, not just in relation to this specific 
matter. 
The business also violated its published Order Handling Policy and behaved 
contrary to the statement on the Overseas Share Dealing page. Given this, he cant 
agree that the business behaved reasonably by not allowing him to sell his shares. 
Hes not aware of any business refusing to allow a customer to exit their existing 
position by selling  he doesnt think its ethical.  
The business is one of the largest brokers in the UK. Hell be very surprised if this 
was one of the first times that a company owned by one of their customers had filed 
for bankruptcy, it certainly wont be the last. But in this instance the business didnt 
abide by its published policy and therefore is in breach of contract.  
A phone call to its custody agent couldve facilitated the sale, but from the outset the 
business was only prepared to pass the buck. 
His believes an impediment to the sale was the business financial incentive. In other 
words, the business decided that its time could be better spent on more profitable 
trades rather than doing what Mr M asked it to do. 
Hes not seeking compensation for the company filing for bankruptcy. Hes seeking 
compensation for the damage he sustained as a direct result of the business refusing 
to sell, when first instructed to do so in May 2020. 
His claim for damages would be much higher had he not spent time and effort 
transferring the shares to another broker, who sold them immediately upon receipt. 
The erroneous alert relates to the disappearance of his holdings. Its refusal to sell 
the Diamond shares, forced him to partially transfer to another broker. With Covid-19 
there was a real possibility that many other companies would file for bankruptcy. He 
wanted to be with a broker that would respect his wishes. 
The alert came up when he tried to buy additional shares of stocks that he wasnt 
transferring, stating: "You have requested to transfer out this stock. Any further units 
purchased may not be transferred out, please contact us with any queries." 
Yet when his holdings subsequently disappeared from his ISA, leaving only cash and 
newly purchased shares, the business claims its unrelated. He finds the odds of that 
happening very low. 
He accepts that the business doesnt have a regulatory requirement to provide any 
documentation showing movement of assets in or out of the brokerage account. He 
wouldve expected the industry regulator to insist on this, as without it an account 
owner may never notice if their account has been compromised. 
He received no documentation about the movement of his assets  they simply disappeared between one portfolio valuation and the next, with no indication 
whatsoever of what happened to them, the same as what happened to the £411,000 
of assets. They disappeared on or after 21 September and not returned until after he 
complained on 30 September  they reappeared on or by 2 October.     
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
 
Hes sorry that Mr M doesnt agree with his view. 
He appreciates that Mr M was unhappy that the business was unable to sell his 
shares at the time. However, hes satisfied that the business couldnt provide that 
service for the reasons hes already explained. 
Despite the terms and conditions mentioned by Mr M, it doesnt mean that the 
business is/was able to sell the shares on the OTC market, because it didnt have 
access to it. 
As a service we wouldnt say a business has acted unfairly by not carrying out a 
service it doesnt offer.   
His view regarding there being no link between the alert and disappearance of his 
holdings remains the same. 
Mr M wouldve been concerned about his missing money  over a few days  but in 
the circumstances, and on balance, £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience is broadly fair and reasonable. 
If Mr M had any immediate concerns, he couldve called the business and it wouldve 
been able to confirm that his holdings were still there.     
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says  apart from the 
missing holdings for which the business has offered him £50 compensation  I dont think 
the business has behaved unreasonably. 
In other words:
I dont think the business behaved unreasonably by not being able to sell Mr Ms 
Diamond shares  because it didnt have access to the OTC market  therefore its 
not responsible for any losses he may have incurred by not being able to sell his 
shares sooner. 
I also dont think that the business was obligated to notify Mr M that Diamond had 
filed for bankruptcy, so I dont think it has done anything wrong by not doing so. 
Although its not clear why it happened, I understand the alert was an error. 
Nevertheless, it hasnt caused Mr M a financial loss. 
Its also not clear why a large portion of his investments disappeared from his 
portfolio. But despite what Mr M says, Im unable to say the two issues are related. 
Im satisfied that the business isnt under a regulatory requirement to show stock 
movements in its quarterly reports, therefore hasnt done anything wrong by not 
doing so. Overall, I think the £50 compensation offered for the distress and inconvenience 
caused is broadly fair and reasonable. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr M and the business, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Despite what Mr M says, Im not persuaded that the business prevented Mr M from selling 
his Diamond shares. 
I note that Diamond, for its own reasons, filed for bankruptcy which was outside of the 
business purview. I dont think its something that the business was involved in or had 
control over. I note consequently, the shares were delisted from the NYSE and could only be 
traded on the OTC market  specifically Pink Sheets  which the business didnt have 
access to. 
In the circumstances, despite what Mr M says, I cant blame the business for not being able 
to sell shares on a market that it didnt have access to. In other words, Im not persuaded the 
business refused to sell the shares when it was asked to, rather it couldnt sell the shares.  
Its a point of fact that the business using alternative dealing facilities just didnt extend to 
the OTC market, which isnt something I can blame it for. So, despite what Mr M says, Im 
not persuaded that the business prevented him from exiting his current position and 
therefore it isnt responsible for losses claimed. Im mindful he had the option to transfer his 
holdings to another provider (sooner) that had ready access to the OTC market. I note thats 
what Mr M eventually did. 
Whether or not tens of millions of diamond shares were traded by other businesses  that 
had access to the OTC market  doesnt automatically mean that the business did anything 
wrong here, even though it helped Mr M purchase the shares in the first place. Im mindful 
that the issue arose after the company filed for bankruptcy and the shares were delisted 
from the NYSE, and thats not something I can blame the business for. 
I note a financial business, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial 
judgement, is entitled to decide which service it offers and which it doesnt. Therefore, I cant 
blame the business for not offering/having access to the OTC market. Its not for us to tell a 
business how to run its affairs. 
I dont think this was the first time a company owned by one of its customers filed for 
bankruptcy, and I certainly dont think itll be the last. But in this instance, the company being 
de-listed on the NYSE and only trading in the OTC market meant the business was limited in 
what it could do. I dont think this means its passing the buck as suggested by Mr M or that 
it wasnt doing enough to help him in the circumstances. Despite what Mr M says, in the circumstances, Im not persuaded that the business didnt 
sell the Diamond shares because it wasnt lucrative enough and/or that it chose to 
maximise its profits doing other trades instead. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I agree with the investigator that the business cant be 
blamed for not carrying out a service it doesnt offer. For this reason, despite what Mr M 
says, I also dont think the business is in breach of its agreement with Mr M  in particular 
the Order Handling Policy or statements on its website. 
I note the business terms and conditions made reasonably clear that its online services 
arent guaranteed to be available or free of error, and this could be argued as falling within 
that. I note again that it gave Mr M the option to transfer the relevant holdings to a different 
provider, that could sell through the OTC market.   
As an execution only platform, Im satisfied that the business isnt responsible for advising 
customers or immediately bringing to their attention any changes. Im satisfied that its up to 
the individual customer to keep themselves up to date. I note in this instance the business 
notified Mr M in due course, but he was already aware through other means. 
Based on what the investigator says, I note the business made clear on its website that 
shares can be delisted anytime making it difficult or even impossible to sell, so Mr M knew, 
or ought reasonably to have known, that there was a possibility of this happening. 
Its not clear what happened with the alert or why his holdings werent showing at the 
material time. Its possible that it was a systems error, but this hasnt resulted in a financial 
loss to Mr M and his holdings were never in any danger. In any case I note the issue 
resolved itself within a few days and therefore I think £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience suffered is broadly fair and reasonable. Im mindful that Mr M had the option 
to call the business to raise any immediate concerns he had, and the business couldve 
confirmed the status of his holdings. 
Im aware Mr M is unhappy about the time it took the business to respond to this complaint 
point. But as Mr M will now be aware, a financial business has up to eight weeks within 
which to provide a final response, by which time the issue was long resolved, so I cant say 
the business has done anything wrong. Perhaps, it couldve better managed Mr Ms 
expectations but in this instance, this isnt reason to uphold his complaint.   
I note the business isnt under a regulatory requirement to show stock movements in its 
quarterly reports, however it can do so if required by Mr M. Based on what Mr M says, it 
seems he understands this although he doesnt necessarily agree. In this case its not for me 
to consider what the regulator should or shouldnt be doing. Like the investigator, on balance 
I cant say the business has done anything wrong in this instance.  
I appreciate Mr M will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate his frustration, Im not persuaded to require the business to do anything. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold 
this complaint and give Mr M what he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman