DRN-2661678
The complaint
Mrs O says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her mortgage Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) cover which she neither agreed to or wanted. She says she was 
unaware she even had the cover.
What happened
We now know Mrs O was sold a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1994. The mortgage closed 
around 10 years later.
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mrs O with an answer about this complaint. 
They said that they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Mrs O disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.
Whilst I dont doubt Mrs O may genuinely and honestly believe now that the PPI was mis-
sold to her, Im sure she will also understand that the sale was over 26 years ago and its 
therefore obviously possible she just may not remember everything that took place.
The sale looks to have been carried out in a branch of the business and there is no original 
documentation left to refer to after such a long time. This isnt unreasonable, or indeed 
unusual, as businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. But as Halifax is a large 
lender, Ive evidently seen quite a few cases very similar to this one and I know quite a bit 
about the type of paperwork that consumers were given.
Mrs Os main point of complaint is that she didnt even know about the PPI policy because 
shed never consented to buying it. However, I find this highly unlikely given what Ive seen 
about her case. My experience is that Halifax would have most likely given her a choice 
about the PPI when she was taking out her mortgage. And upon her agreeing to it, Halifax 
would have sent her welcome letters and policy schedules for the PPI policy in question. 
Theres no dispute that PPI was sold to her, so the insurers would have no reason, in my 
view, not to send out these details to her. My experience is that the correspondence would 
set out the policy number, the cost of the PPI and what was covered. So, all this leads me to 
say its much more likely that Mrs O agreed to the PPI and she would almost certainly have 
been able to see it had been set up to cover her mortgage borrowing.
However, Halifaxs records also show that a successful claim on the policy was made by 
Mrs O in mid-2003. Clearly, she couldnt have ever made a claim on this policy without first 
knowing she had the policy in the first place, and what it was for. All these factors point 
strongly to Mrs O having previously agreed to buy the PPI cover.
Next, I looked to see if the PPI was suitable for Mrs O because Halifax probably 
recommended this to her as part of an advised sale. I think it was suitable.
I say this because she seems to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. She may well already have had some 
sickness protection with her job, and I recognise this would have been relatively generous 
cover because of the type of work she did. But Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean the 
PPI wasnt suitable for her. I think the mortgage would have been a significant and long-
term financial commitment and secured against her home, so the consequences of not 
being able to make the repayments could have been serious. The PPI cover, on the other 
hand, was designed to pay a monthly sum for up to 12 months if shed needed to claim. So, 
Halifax putting forward a recommendation to have PPI wasnt unfair.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. As I 
say, we no longer have the actual paperwork now in respect of Mrs Os sale, but I think its 
more likely she would have known what the cover was costing and what elements of 
insurance she had agreed to. I think she probably had enough information on which to 
make an informed choice.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs O. But these events are from a long time ago and to uphold her 
complaint Id need to think it was more likely she never gave her consent or that there were 
other flaws in the sale. The evidence points strongly the other way and I think its much 
more likely she tailored the cover to suit her needs of the time and would have had a lot of 
documentation showing this. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Os complaint.
I do not direct Bank of Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman