DRN-1427329
 
The complaint
Mrs C makes a number of complaints about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax following 
her attempts to change her address.
What happened
Mrs C says she attended a Halifax branch to change her address, but Halifax refused to do 
so. She says it refused to accept the documents she had and its staff were rude and 
unhelpful. Mrs C says she made a further visit with additional documents but Halifax refused 
to accept these. She says she then spent some hours on the phone to Halifax and it refused 
to close her account. Mrs C says she has been caused distress and worry, and Halifax 
refused to process a payment for her credit card balance. She would like an apology and 
compensation as well as a refund of interest caused by its mistake. Mrs C says Halifax staff 
have lied and were aggressive towards her.
Halifax says it couldn't update Mrs C's address as she didn't have the correct identification 
documents. It doesn't accept its staff acted inappropriately and says Mrs C couldn't complete 
security to enable it to make the account changes. It also says it couldn't process the credit 
card payment as the address didn't match, but has refunded interest caused by this.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Halifax couldn't make the account changes without the correct proof of identity and 
address evidence, and so hadn't made a mistake. The investigator also thought that, as the 
address didn't match, then Halifax was entitled not to process the credit card payment.
Mrs C doesn't accept that view and says in summary that she was asked to provide a PIN by 
Halifax whilst on one call and that could have resulted in fraud. She says identification was 
provided but Halifax kept asking for more, and says its staff in branch would not help her. 
Mrs C says Halifax staff didn't deal with her complaint as they promised, and she did not act 
abusively.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mrs C will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly she feels about this complaint.
We are not the regulator of banks and building societies and so it's not our role to tell a 
business what it's security requirements are to change an address. I appreciate that Mrs C 
says Halifax increased the amount of documents it wished to see but equally Halifax says it 
followed its procedure on such matters. So i don't think it possible to fairly conclude that 
Halifax acted unfairly or made it difficult for Mrs C to change her address. And I'm satisfied 
that it's up to Halifax to be satisfied that it has the appropriate documents before making a 
change to its customers details. I also think there is a clear dispute here about what took place in branch with both side providing a different account of what took place. So again I 
think it impossible to be sure what took place and in those circumstances I can't fairly 
conclude Halifax staff were rude and unhelpful or that Mrs C behaved inappropriately.
I have listened to all the available calls between the parties and I appreciate that Mrs C 
spent a considerable amount of time on those calls. I'm satisfied that Halifax tried to help 
Mrs C and fairly explained what documents and information it needed to change the 
address. I also appreciate Mrs C's concerns about providing information about the PIN over 
the phone, but I think it was clear she was speaking to Halifax at that stage.
I don't think Halifax made a mistake by refusing to accept the credit card payment in 
circumstances where there were address differences. I appreciate that caused 
inconvenience and concern to Mrs C but that doesn't mean I can fairly hold Halifax 
responsible for that. In any event I can see that the payment was processed and Halifax 
fairly refunded the interest.
I have listened carefully to the call in which Mrs C says she was promised that a staff 
member would deal with the complaint and it would be resolved. I'm satisfied that the staff 
member said she would look into the complaint and made no promises about the outcome. 
So I don't think Mrs C was misled by that staff member.
Overall I'm satisfied that Halifax has dealt fairly with this complaint, and so I can't order it to 
do anything further. I can see that Mrs C has closed her account, and she has received the 
overpayment back from Halifax. I appreciate Mrs C is unlikely to accept my decision, but I'm 
satisfied this brings an end to what we, in trying to sort out this dispute informally, can do to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman