DRN-3116195
The complaint
Miss J complains because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a travel 
insurance claim for cutting her holiday short. 
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf.  
What happened
Miss J held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by URV. The policy was purchased 
in January 2020. 
Unfortunately, while Miss J was on holiday abroad, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) 
advised against all but essential international travel due to the circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. On 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all British travellers who were abroad to 
return to the UK. 
On 24 March 2020, Miss J was notified that her original return flight on 22 April 2020 was 
being cancelled by her airline because the government in the country she was transiting 
through had suspended all passenger flights into the country. Miss J instead returned to the 
UK early, transiting via a different country and departing on 18 April 2020, on a new flight 
which she bought with a different airline. 
Miss J made a claim under her policy with URV for the losses shed incurred. URV said there 
was no cover under the terms and conditions of Miss Js policy for the circumstances she 
found herself in. Unhappy, Miss J complained to URV before bringing the matter to the 
attention of our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He said, although Miss Js claim 
wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of her policy with URV, he thought it would 
be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for URV to accept the claim regardless. URV 
didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so Miss Js complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint.
The policy documentation
Page 1 of the Insurance Production Information Document (IPID), which summarises the
cover available under Miss Js policy with URV, says:
! Are there any restrictions on cover? 
! Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your
destination
The policy terms and conditions, at page 12 under the heading What is not covered 
applicable to all sections of the policy says:
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from: 
14. Travelling against FCO advice
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of the
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a country to/from
which you are travelling has advised against all or all but essential travel.
Page 17 of the policy terms and conditions, under the heading Section B1  Curtailment
charges set out the cover available if a policyholder has to come home early from their trip. 
The terms and conditions say URV will pay certain costs if a trip is curtailed for one of the 
following reasons:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease or complications arising as a direct result
of pregnancy of:
a) you
b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
3. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance
Services or employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that the
curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you
purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip.
4. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due
to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood,
subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
Im satisfied, based on the information Ive seen, that Miss Js trip was cut short because her
airline cancelled her return flight as a result of restrictions imposed due to Covid-19.
An airline cancelling a flight isnt covered under the terms and conditions of the curtailment
section of Miss Js policy, as its not a specific or listed insured event. Ive also reviewed the 
remaining sections of Miss Js insurance policy, but I dont think she held any cover which 
would pay a benefit in the circumstances she found herself in.
Whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstancesI have an overriding remit to make a decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of a case. Ive taken into account the relevant law and industry 
guidelines and I dont think a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions leads to a 
fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case.
At the time Miss Js original return flight was cancelled, and at the time she cut short her trip, 
the FCDO was advising all British travellers who were abroad at the time to return to the UK.  
The policy exclusion outlined on page 12 of the terms and conditions excludes cover under
any section of the policy if a policyholder is travelling against FCDO advice. This means, 
based on the information Ive seen, I think its most likely that Miss J wasnt covered by the 
policy terms and conditions at all after FCDO advice changed, advising travellers to return to 
the UK on 23 March 2020. 
But, under the terms and conditions of Miss Js policy, curtailment of a trip due to changes in 
FCDO guidance also isnt covered. This means Miss J was left in a situation where she had 
no cover while she was abroad after 23 March 2020, but she also had no cover if she cut 
short her trip. I dont think this was made sufficiently clear to Miss J in her policy 
documentation.
Miss J would need to have read the full policy terms and conditions in order to understand 
that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think this information was brought 
to her attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I dont think the combined effect of 
the policy terms were made sufficiently clear to her.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Miss J and URV. I 
think its unlikely Miss J would have purchased this policy if she had realised there was no 
cover if FCDO guidance changed after she bought the policy and/or commenced her trip. 
And, Im satisfied that travel insurance policies which did cover curtailment claims arising 
from changes to FCDO advice were available on the market at the time Miss J bought this 
policy in January 2020. So, I think its likely Miss J would have been able to buy alternative 
insurance which did cover the circumstances she ultimately found herself in.
I therefore think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for URV to accept Miss 
Js claim outside of a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions. 
Ive taken into account the comments which URV made in response to our investigators 
recommendations, but these dont change my decision.
Putting things right
I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to treat Miss Js claim as covered under the curtailment 
section of her policy. 
Union Reiseversicherung AG should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.   
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Js complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and I direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman