DRN-3239411
The complaint
Mr F complains a car supplied to him through a hire purchase agreement by MotoNovo
Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In March 2020 Mr F acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo.
The car was about six years old, had travelled about 34,000 miles and had a cash price of
about £10,000.
Very shortly after getting the car Mr F was concerned. He thought the exhaust system
needed repairing and the car had 1,800 more miles on the odometer than it should have. He
tried to address these issues with the dealership, but their relationship broke down. Matters
were also delayed by the Covid pandemic.
In June 2020, to settle things, MotoNovo agreed to pay Mr F £330.60 so he could arrange
for the necessary repairs to be completed. It also offered him £200  this was £70 to make
up for the mileage discrepancy and £130 compensation for the issues Mr F had faced. Mr F
accepted these payments as a resolution to the matter.
In August 2020 Mr F experienced further problems with the car. He informed MotoNovo,
which arranged an independent inspection. This didnt provide a clear conclusion. Mr F
arranged for a diagnosis by a third-party garage which identified a fault and advised an
Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) valve and cooler replacement. MotoNovo arranged a
second independent inspection. This identified a fault code related to the EGR and
concluded this wouldnt have been present at the point of sale, but also said the issue wasnt
commensurate with the age and mileage of the car. MotoNovo didnt uphold Mr Fs
complaint.
Mr F asked our service for an independent review. The investigator concluded, in summary,
that the car supplied to Mr F wasnt of satisfactory quality and he should be allowed to reject
it. Mr F mostly agreed with the investigators recommendation. MotoNovo didnt as it was of
the opinion it wasnt responsible for the fault with the EGR. As an agreement couldnt be
reached the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. MotoNovo is also the supplier of the goods under 
this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description 
of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely 
that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take 
into account might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history.
The quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things 
like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
MotoNovo supplied Mr F with a car that was just over six years old and had travelled 
about 34,000 miles. And the price of the car was lower than it would have been if it 
had been supplied new. So I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would 
expect that parts of the car might have already suffered wear and tear. And theres a 
greater risk this car might need repair and/or maintenance sooner than a car which 
wasnt as road-worn when it was supplied.
Based on the evidence I have from both parties, it seems likely there was/is a fault 
with the car. I say this because the dealership accepted the exhaust system needed 
repairing soon after Mr F acquired the car and because MotoNovo later paid him to 
arrange the repairs. My view, however, is that MotoNovo paying for the exhaust 
system to be repaired was a fair remedy and I note it was accepted by Mr F at the 
time. Mr F has since explained the repair to the exhaust didnt go ahead, as it came 
to light it would cost significantly more than £330.60.
In August 2020 Mr F told MotoNovo about another issue, which he initially described 
as transmission problems. MotoNovo arranged an independent inspection. I havent 
seen a copy of the inspection report. My understanding is it identified two fault codes, 
but the engineer found the car to have performed and handled well. Mr F wasnt 
satisfied the car was fault free given fault codes had been identified, so he arranged 
a further diagnosis by a third-party garage, which I understand MotoNovo paid for. 
This said:
carried out investigation into lack of power and engine management light on found 
fault with egr and cooler. advise replace egr valve and cooler
Following this MotoNovo arranged a further independent inspection. I have seen the 
report, which was completed following the inspection in mid-September 2020. It says 
during a road test the overall performance of the car was good. But there was a slight 
hesitation and fluttering from the engine upon acceleration. It further says:
We cannot confirm the exact cause at this time. However, we do suspect EGR 
issues which we do not consider are commensurate with a vehicle of this age and 
mileage.
And:Taking into consideration the time and mileage covered by the vehicle since the 
point of finance inception we do not consider this would have been present or 
developing at that point unless documented evidence can be provided to confirm this 
has been an ongoing issue since the point of sale.
From the diagnosis and second independent inspection I think its most likely there 
was a fault with the car and that the fault was most likely linked to the EGR.
MotoNovo says the fault happened too far into the term of the agreement for it to 
have been present at the point of supply. I appreciate the problems with the car 
happened a few months after the goods were supplied, and after it had covered a 
couple of thousand miles. But I need to consider how durable the car was. If parts fail 
prematurely, this might indicate there was already a problem when the car was 
supplied. The second independent report says:
we do suspect EGR issues which we do not consider are commensurate with a 
vehicle of this age and mileage.
This suggests to me the engineer thought the EGR issue shouldnt have developed 
at the point it did. MotoNovo has argued how long-lasting parts are depends on 
things other than age and mileage, such as servicing and driving style. I agree. But 
here, Mr F hadnt had the car for more than a few months and had travelled 3,272 
miles (according to the second independent report) between March and September 
2020. So I dont think Mr Fs servicing or driving style are a likely factor here.
I think theres enough information to persuade me, on the balance of probabilities, 
the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr F  in particular  
that it wasnt reasonably durable.
As I think as the car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied MotoNovo needs to 
do something to put things right. Mindful this is the second issue in need of repair, 
that MotoNovo has had the opportunity to offer to repair the EGR and has declined to 
do so, and that Mr F doesnt want repairs, I think its now fair for Mr F to be able to 
reject the car.
Mr F says he paid £200 to replace brake discs and pads. I understand why Mr F feels 
he shouldnt have had to pay for this, given a failed MOT in March 2020 recorded a 
major defect as the front brake pad(s) being worn down, and an MOT was 
subsequently passed, meaning that defect must have been corrected. But cars need 
maintenance and I havent been presented with evidence to persuade me the brake 
discs and pads Mr F had replaced was the result of anything more than expected 
wear and tear on a used car. But, as Mr F will be returning the car, Im not persuaded 
hell have the full benefit of the new brake discs and pads, so I intend to require 
MotoNovo to refund him half his outlay (£100).
Mr F also says he paid £250 for a two-year MOT and service plan, which he hasnt 
had the benefit of. I cant see that this cost formed part of the finance provided by 
Motonovo. And Mr F hasnt been able to provide a receipt. In the absence of any 
evidence to show Mr F incurred this cost I cant reasonably ask MotoNovo to 
reimburse him.
Being supplied with a car of unsatisfactory quality has caused Mr F distress and
inconvenience. Hes had to liaise with the dealership and MotoNovo over the 
problems hes experienced and has had the added inconvenience of taking the car 
into garages for repair quotes and diagnosis reports. Hes also had the uncertainty of whether he would remain responsible for a car which needed repairs. In the 
circumstances I intend to require MotoNovo to pay Mr F £100 in recognition of the 
impact this matter has had on him. This is further to the £130 compensation 
MotoNovo previously paid him in recognition of the impact the exhaust and mileage 
discrepancy issues had on him.
Putting things right
I intend to require MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
1) End the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr F;
2) Refund Mr Fs deposit of £500 plus 8% simple interest* per year calculated 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement. MotoNovo may deduct 
£330.60 from this sum because it paid this amount to Mr F to arrange repairs 
which didnt take place;
3) Pay Mr F £100 as a partial reimbursement for the brake discs and pads 
replacement; and
4) Pay Mr F a further £100 compensation.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require MotoNovo Finance Limited to put things 
right as set out above.
MotoNovo didnt respond to my provisional decision by the deadline I set. Mr F responded, 
saying, in summary:
- The £200 MotoNovo paid him was for the issue with the excess mileage, and not for 
the excess mileage and the inconvenience he was caused; and
- Hes concerned the settlement I proposed will mean he cant afford a deposit on a 
replacement car and that he may be better off settling the agreement by trading in 
the car.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive revisited MotoNovos submissions and Im satisfied the £200 was for the mileage 
discrepancy and compensation for the issues Mr F experienced.
I understand Mr Fs concerns about getting a replacement car, but my role here is to put him 
in, or as close as practically possible to, the position hed have been in had he not been 
supplied with this car. This means, broadly, ending the agreement and refunding his deposit 
 which is what my proposed settlement achieves. 
If Mr F thinks hell achieve a better result trading the car in (with MotoNovos permission) and 
settling the agreement hes free to explore that option before deciding whether to accept or 
reject my final decision.
Putting things right
MotoNovo Finance Limited should:
1) End the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr F;2) Refund Mr Fs deposit of £500 plus 8% simple interest* per year calculated from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement. MotoNovo may deduct £330.60 from 
this sum because it paid this amount to Mr F to arrange repairs which didnt take 
place;
3) Pay Mr F £100 as a partial reimbursement for the brake discs and pads 
replacement; and
4) Pay Mr F a further £100 compensation.
*If MotoNovo Finance Limited consider that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr F how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr F a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  
My final decision
I require MotoNovo Finance Limited to put things right as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman