DRN-2441335
The complaint
Mr W and Ms F are unhappy that Amtrust Europe Limited declined a claim made on the legal 
expenses insurance (LEI) section of their home insurance policy (the policy). 
Theyre also unhappy with the service they received. 
All references to Amtrust include its claims handlers. 
What happened
Mr W and Ms F moved into a rented property towards the end of 2019 (the property). They 
say their move was delayed by a couple of weeks because of the condition of the property. A 
few months later the Local Authority served an improvement notice on the landlord of the 
property due to several defects. 
In or around May 2020, Mr W and Ms F received a statutory notice from the landlord, 
seeking possession of the property. 
It was around that time Mr W and Ms F made a claim on the LEI to pursue a claim against 
the landlord of the property for breach of contract, on the basis that theyd not carried out the 
requested repairs. And they were looking to recover the financial losses they say theyd 
suffered against the landlord due to the disrepair of the property. That claim was declined by 
Amtrust; it said a rental agreement didnt amount to a consumer contract and so wasnt a 
claim covered under the LEI.
Mr W and Ms F also said their claim should be covered under the property infringement 
section of the LEI. Amtrust said it couldnt assist with a claim of this nature unless the 
disrepair actions amounted to a nuisance infringing their legal rights.
Amtrust subsequently asked for further information from Mr W and Ms F about the details of 
the nuisance claim and asked them to forward any documents that had been filed at Court. 
After Mr W and Ms F confirmed they hadnt commenced Court proceedings, Amtrust 
instructed a law firm (the law firm) to advise on whether the claim amounted to a nuisance, 
and potentially covered under the LEI.
In July 2020, the law firm advised that the claim could amount to a nuisance but as the 
subject matter of the claim had arisen out of a lease or licence to use the property, it was 
excluded under the terms of the LEI.
Relying on that advice, Amtrust notified Mr W and Ms F that it wouldnt be covering the claim 
under the LEI. 
Mr W and Ms F dont think Amtrust has fairly applied the terms of the LEI when declining 
their claim.  Theyre also unhappy with the service they received. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W and Ms F disagree so their complaint has 
been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
Amtrust has an obligation to handle complaints fairly and promptly. And it mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim.
Declining the claim:
Under the policy, the LEI can cover legal costs to:
 pursue legal action following a breach of a contract you have for buying or renting 
goods or services for your private use. This includes the purchase of your main 
home. The contract must have been made after you first purchased this insurance.
Mr W and Ms F say that renting a property constitutes goods and the responsibility of the 
landlord to maintain the property is a service. 
The LEI can also cover legal costs to pursue:
legal action following a nuisance or trespass against the person infringing your 
legal rights in relation to your main Home.
I can see Amtrust considered Mr W and Ms Fs claim against these insured incidents. But 
even if the claim made under the policy did fall within one of these insured incidents, the 
claim was ultimately declined on the basis that:
there is no cover for any claim directly or indirectly arising from 
A lease or licence to use property or land. 
Ill refer to this as the exclusion.
Im satisfied that Amtrust has fairly and reasonably relied on that exclusion to decline the 
claim, given the nature of the claim Mr W and Ms F wanted covered.
Confusion over the policy terms relied on by Amtrust:
When corresponding with Mr W about whether the claim is an insured incident, and the 
exclusion relied on to decline the claim, Amtrust referred to certain pages of the policy 
document. Mr W and Ms F say the pages quoted didnt match up with the policy document 
they had in their possession. 
It appears that both parties were referring to two different policy documents; one was the 
standard policy (consisting of 104 pages), and the other was for the platinum policy 
(consisting of 108 pages). Im satisfied that the LEI section of both policy documents 
contains the exclusion and sets out the same insured incidents relevant to this complaint. 
However, they are set out on different pages.  
From the communications Ive seen between Mr W and Amtrust between May and July 
2020, I can see that he was clearly confused and frustrated by being referred to page 
numbers, purporting to contain certain policy terms which didnt match the page numbers on 
the policy document he had. I can see that Amtrust was trying to ascertain from Mr W why, and how, he had a different 
policy document to the one it was referring to. But Amtrust accepts that this caused Mr W 
some confusion. It offered Mr W and Ms F £25 compensation for this and I think that sum 
fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused.
Not disclosing the identity of the law firm:
Mr W and Ms F are also unhappy that Amtrust hasnt disclosed the identity of the law firm, 
whod advised in July 2020 that even if Mr W and Ms Fs claim fell within the property 
infringement section of the LEI, the claim wouldnt be covered because of the exclusion. 
Amtrust provided Mr W and Ms F with an extract of the advice it received without confirming 
the identity of the law firm. I can understand why Mr W and Ms F might want to know who 
provided that advice; and whether they were experienced and qualified to do so. 
However, in the circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded Amtrust has unreasonably 
declined to disclose the identity of the law firm. I say this because the law firm hadnt been 
appointed under the terms of the policy to represent Mr W and Ms F in their claim. Amtrust 
obtained the advice to assist it to determine whether the claim Mr W and Ms F sought cover 
for was an insured incident under the LEI. 
Not responding to correspondence within a stipulated timeframe:
Mr W and Ms F are also unhappy that Amtrust didnt reply to Mr Ws email dated 26 May 
2020, within the time frame he requested. 
In that email, Mr W raised concerns about the way in which Amtrust had interpreted the 
terms of the policy. He maintained that the claim should be covered under the consumer 
contract section of the LEI.  Hed asked for a reply by 4pm on 28 May 2020 because he said 
he had a strict court deadline to comply with. Amtrust didnt reply until 2 June 2020. 
However, I dont think Amtrust acted unreasonably by not replying within the timeframe 
stipulated by Mr W. He subsequently confirmed to Amtrust that he hadnt issued a Court 
claim, so I dont think there was a need for an urgent reply. And, in any event, Mr W received 
a reply to the points hed raised within four working days. I think thats reasonably prompt in 
the circumstances  and within Amtrusts service standards of five working days.
Other issues:
Mr W and Ms F are also concerned that the policy was mis-sold to them. 
Amtrust didnt sell the policy. So, Mr W and Ms F would need to pursue a complaint against 
the business who did. And that would involve raising their concerns directly with that 
business in the first instance.  
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr W and Ms Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman