DRN-2931157
The complaint
Mr T says Link Financial Outsourcing Limited, trading as Thesis Servicing, has treated him 
unfairly in the way it has applied arrears to his account.
What happened
Earlier in July this year I issued a provisional decision saying that I was minded not to uphold 
Mr Ts complaint. I then invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before 
I reached my final decision. Both parties have responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Thesis has agreed with my provisional decision. It has noted that Mr Ts account exited its 
latest deferment period on 28 January 2021 and payments have been due since then and 
not paid, so further arrears have accrued.
Mr T has noted that that my position is in contrast to that of the Investigators. This is correct. 
I see that in Mr Ts response he has not said that the events Ive described in my provisional 
decision are wrong. Nor has he sought to demonstrate my rationale or individual arguments 
are flawed. Rather he has simply made clear that he is lost for words and considers this an 
utterly terrible outcome. I have not concluded that Thesis has been perfect throughout. And 
clearly the relationship here could have been better. But ultimately in the circumstances it is 
clear to me that Thesis has treated Mr T fairly in the application of arrears to his account in 
the two periods mentioned.
Accordingly, considering my findings in my provisional decision and the responses from both 
parties I see no persuasive reason to change position on this matter. So Mr Ts complaint is 
not successful.
From what Mr T has said and from his applications for deferment it is clear he earns below 
the threshold amount and has done so for many years. It seems likely that the significant 
arrears will not be easy for him to pay. And if he is in financial difficulty then he should inform 
Thesis of this so that it can treat him positively and sympathetically in relation to this 
significant debt he owes. 
In Italics now follows the key aspects of my provisional decision.
Mr T took out student loans many years ago. Thesis has been administering these loans 
since 2008 on behalf of the Student Loans Company. Due to Mr Ts income being beneath 
the threshold set each year, Mr T has been applying to defer payment of his debt on a regular 
basis since 2008.
There has been a lot of correspondence between Mr T and Thesis over the administration of 
this debt over the years. Thesis says his account was not in a deferment period and payment 
of his monthly instalments was not maintained during two periods, namely 28th January 2017 
to 27th July 2017 and from the 28th July 2018 to the 27th November 2019. Thesis says non-
payment during these periods when his repayments were not deferred has led to arrears 
accumulating on his account.
Mr T says that he properly applied to have his payments deferred throughout and that its 
Thesis fault that his account wasnt maintained properly. He points to issues and complaints 
prior to these two periods, to support his position that these issues have arisen due to failings 
on Thesis part. He doesnt think it fair and feels these periods of arrears on his account 
should be removed because he was always earning less than the threshold amount where he 
would have to start repaying the debt.
Mr T complained to Thesis about what happened, and it said that it had treated him fairly 
overall. Mr T disagreed, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator decided that Thesis had treated Mr T unfairly and that the arrears should be 
wiped off. Thesis felt this was unfair and not supported by the evidence it had supplied. 
Accordingly this complaint comes to me for a decision.
Thesis and Mr T dont agree to some of the key issues here. So I can only make my decision 
based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short I must decide what is most 
likely to have happened. Or in other words, what happened on the balance of probabilities.
I should start by saying both parties have made extensive and detailed submissions about 
what has happened between the two parties over a protracted period of time. I have 
considered everything that has been said but will limit my comments on this to the key issues 
of the complaint. That being specifically the fairness of the application of arrears to the 
account in the two periods Ive detailed. Because I wont address every nuance of every 
argument made by both parties doesnt mean I havent considered them. It just means that I 
do not see them as key to coming to a fair decision on the crux of this complaint-was the 
application of arrears in these periods fair?
It is important to set out here that Thesis does not own this debt and that they only administer 
it. The Student Loan Company are responsible for the administration of the deferment 
process and the success or failure of applications for deferment. Thesis has no authority on 
such issues and must rely on what the Student Loan Company tell it in such matters. Its role 
is to administer the accounts of those who took out such loans such as Mr T.
It is also worth noting that the rules around this are set by The Education (Student Loans) 
Regulations 1998 which govern the terms and conditions of these loan agreements generally 
and in relation to deferment specifically in Schedule 2 (Terms of Loans) Part 1 section 10 
which states:
10. Each deferment period will last for 12 months beginning on a date the lender tells 
the borrower. This date will be not more than three months before or two months after 
the date the lender accepts the borrowers deferment application..
Mr T has made many arguments about both the rules governing these issues and also the 
Student Loans Company. I will not be dealing with those in this decision. This decision is 
solely about Thesis and what it did and didnt do. I cannot hold it responsible for what the 
Student Loans Company did or didnt do, or the legislation enacted by Parliament (and any 
subsequent statutory instruments where applicable).
Having considered matters here there are two observations I should make. Firstly it is clear 
that the working relationship between Mr T and Thesis isnt as both parties would like it. 
Secondly it is clear that Thesis has accepted it could have done things better in the past and 
has applied payment holidays to the account and accepted issues have arisen in the 
administration of this account. So Mr T saying that Thesis having made amendments to the 
account after he raised issues in the past is true. Before I consider this it is key to remember that the starting point is that this debt is repayable 
and if Mr T doesnt successfully apply for deferment then repayments fall due each month, 
and if these are not paid, arrears accumulate. So the onus is on Mr T is to apply each year for 
deferment (if he wishes to) as per the rules as set out year to year. Thesis isnt responsible for 
ensuring Mr T does apply for deferment. 
In addition, I understand that if a borrower is already deferring repayments on a loan the 
Student Loan Company will get in touch a couple of months before the deferment is due to 
end, but it will not do so if the loan repayments are not currently being deferred  the onus 
then being on the borrower (Mr T here) to initiate the process.
I should also state that on file is a wealth of correspondence between Mr T and Thesis 
covering a number of years prior to this period in question. It is clear from this that Mr T had 
been told the process and that he was informed that the onus is on him to apply for deferment 
and that it is the Student Loans Company who manage the deferment application and 
decision process. It is also clear that Mr T had been unhappy with the administration of his 
account and believed things had gone wrong before. And it is also clear that Mr T had applied 
for deferment successfully on a number of occasions prior to this period. So I think it fair to 
say Mr T was experienced and to some degree knowledgeable in these matters. I shall now 
turn to the relevant periods.
28 January 2017 to 27 July 2017
I can see that Mr Ts previous period of deferment ended on 27 January 2017. I can see 
evidence saying that a Deferment Application Form (DAF from now on) had been issued to 
Mr T on 2 December 2016 by the Student Loans Company which is in line with what I 
understand is the norm in this situation. So payments become due on 28 January 2017 (the 
day after deferment period ended). 
But as the legislation has the mechanism within it for three months of backdated deferment to 
be applied to the account, passing the date of payments becoming payable is not immediately 
pivotal as there is this window of opportunity to repair the situation after that date. And I can 
see Mr T was aware of this three-month backdating mechanism as he refers to it in 
correspondence from before the time of these arrears.
From Thesis correspondence log I can see Mr T called it on 20 March 2017. During this call 
the correspondence log created at that time says that the Thesis representative tells Mr T that 
his account is accruing arrears and that he is not in a deferment period. There is discussion 
about the deferment application made and whether further evidence had been asked for. The 
call note ends with Mr T saying hes going to review the evidence he has. There then follows 
a second call that day between Mr T and Thesis about the application and the Thesis 
representative says hell check with the Student Loans Company.
So at this stage Mr T is on notice that Thesis think hes not in deferment and that arrears are 
accruing according to Thesis. But from the evidence its also clear that the parties know that 
the situation is remediable as they have time to get a DAF reapplied and backdated so that 
deferment continues seamlessly. So Thesis have made Mr T aware of the situation and has 
made clear it is willing to help sort this situation. So I think its treated him fairly on these calls 
on this day.
Four days later there is another call (24 March 2017). Here Thesis tell Mr T that the issues 
around the application may stem from a change of Mr Ts address. There is no persuasive 
evidence of Mr T telling Thesis about changes in contact details before the 20 March. So I 
dont think its made a mistake here. I note Mr T makes the comment that due to redirection 
services he received post after moving address. That may be the case, but it doesnt mean 
that Thesis hadnt done anything wrong by contacting the old address (because Mr T hadnt 
told them hed moved).
There is a further call between Thesis and Mr T on the 27 March 2017. Here all contact 
details are checked again and the need for the DAF to be completed is discussed. On the 28 March 2017 Thesis send Mr T another DAF by email. So at this point Mr T is on notice there 
is an issue and is aware that if he supplies the required application and supporting evidence 
there will be no arrears accrued as theyll be wiped away by the backdating DAF application. 
So up until this point Ive seen no persuasive evidence of mistake by Thesis regarding this 
period of arrears accrual. And even if there had been a mistake by it the situation could be 
remedied as it had put Mr T on notice of the situation as it saw it. And although Mr T 
throughout all the correspondence often treats Thesis and the Student Loans Company as 
one and the same, it is clear they hold distinct roles here. And I think its fair to expect Mr T to 
act in his own interests. And as hes on notice that his account is accruing arrears I think 
Thesis has treated him fairly.
On the 24 April 2017 there is another call note on the Thesis correspondence log. This notes 
that Mr T is in possession of a DAF and is aware that arrears are continuing to accrue. This 
call is shortly before the three month point from when the previous deferment period ended. 
Once three months elapse then the three-month backdating mechanism can no longer wipe 
away all the arrears accrued if Mr T isnt making repayments. This is because the mechanism 
is clear on it only being able to work for three months.
I can also see on its correspondence log that Thesis then calls Mr T on his registered number 
on eight occasions between 18 May and 30 June, but these calls are unanswered. So at this 
point arrears are accruing that cannot be wiped away through the three-month backdating 
mechanism. Im not persuaded Thesis had done anything wrong at this point but even if it had 
made a mistake originally (and Im not persuaded it did) I dont think it makes a difference. 
This is because through these calls Mr T is on notice that Thesis thinks hes not in a deferral 
period and has been put on this notice with such time to remedy the situation with the 
assistance of Thesis if need be. But no successful DAF was submitted in time to stop arrears 
accruing and the Student Loans Company didnt tell Thesis Mr T was in deferment or that 
Thesis position was wrong on that matter.
On the 20 October Thesis call Mr T again according to the correspondence log. His registered 
number is answered but the person answering Mr Ts phone number refuses to identify 
themselves. The correspondence log notes this person asks for correspondence in writing. Mr 
T later makes requests for correspondence in writing. Mr T makes the point that he often asks 
for correspondence in writing. Im not persuaded that this happened until later than this period 
in question. But even if such a request was in place from the start of the period in question 
here (28 January 2017 to 27 July 2017), bearing in mind the time critical nature of the 
situation, that Mr T had provided Thesis his phone number and that there had been numerous 
calls between the parties already, I am not persuaded that Thesis treated Mr T unfairly here 
by trying to talk to Mr T.
In October 2017 the Student Loan Company accept Mr Ts submitted DAF and back date it to 
27 July 2017. Having considered everything that has happened in this time period in question 
Im satisfied Thesis have treated Mr T fairly.
I note Mr T has commented to this service on Thesis arguments here. For the period of 
January to July 2017 he passes no comment on the telephone calls between him and Thesis 
and only refers to the written correspondence he says he received. I think there are two 
important points to make here. One is neither Mr T or Thesis are responsible for postage 
services in this country. So in the event of the postal system losing post then that is not the 
fault of either party if Im satisfied it was sent. And in the absence of contrary persuasive 
evidence a contemporaneous record of it being created suggests it was likely to be sent. 
The other point is that Thesis correspondence record is a real time record of entries made on 
its systems when its representatives are working on that case. And much of this log is 
supported by other paperwork and events. I have no persuasive reason to consider it 
unreliable. Accordingly Im satisfied the record of the calls happening here with Mr T are 
reliable and I think an important issue in my considerations of this case for the reasons Ive 
explained.28 July 2018 to 27 November 2019
During early 2018 there is a lot of correspondence between Thesis and Mr T. Mr T complains 
during this time and disputes the presence of arrears for the period Ive already covered. Also 
in relation to this period Mr T has asked Thesis not to telephone him but prefers to have a 
written trail of correspondence bearing in mind previous issues.
On 01 June 2018 with the end of his deferment period approaching I can see evidence that a 
DAF is issued by the Student Loan Company to Mr T as is the standard practice.
On the 12 and 19 July 2018 I can see from Thesis correspondence log it emails Mr T asking 
him to contact it. The Thesis correspondence log shows that in response Thesis receives Mr 
Ts out of office email replies. And this shows that Mr Ts email address is still valid albeit 
hes not immediately available.
In September and early October 2018 I can see from the correspondence log that Thesis 
emails Mr T and asks him to contact it. On the 16 October Mr T emails Thesis in response to 
its email of that day where it outlines the arrears on his account. He emails back that day and 
disputes the arrears on his account and asks for a DAF form. It should be remembered that at 
this point the three-month period from when the last deferment period ended is coming to an 
end. And I think the Student Loan Company had made clear in its earlier correspondence with 
Mr T when that was. The Thesis correspondence log shows a further DAF was sent to Mr T 
that day.
On the 10 January 2019 Thesis again email Mr T asking him to contact it. Mr T responds 
asking why it is contacting him. On 15 January 2019 Thesis arrange for another DAF to be 
sent to Mr T. I can see further emails from Thesis to Mr T in March and April 2019. In 
September 2019 Thesis emails again and Mr T responds for the fourth or fifth time now what 
do wish to speak to me about? So I think its clear that Mr T has been receiving emails in the 
interim and is aware that Thesis has been contacting him.
On 3 October 2019 I can see a letter from the Student Loan Company saying his DAF 
application isnt sufficient and I can see following correspondence from Mr T to the Student 
Loans Company disputing this. But it must be remembered that Thesis isnt responsible for 
the actions of the Student Loan Company or the application for deferral process criteria-these 
issues sit solely with the Student Loan Company. 
I can see from the correspondence as a whole a substantial amount of frustration on Mr Ts 
part with the deferral process itself, the need to apply annually, the changing supporting 
evidence required and other associated issues. But as has been explained that is entirely the 
responsibility of the Student Loan Company and the rules and legislation it works with. These 
things are not the responsibility of Thesis. So although I can imagine this was time consuming 
for Mr T, this isnt the fault of Thesis. And although Mr T wasnt earning above the threshold, 
Mr T always had the option of making payments if he could or refinancing with other lenders if 
he so wished.
Mr Ts DAF was approved 01 April 2020 and backdated the three months as per the 
mechanism as Ive described. So having considered what has happened during this period I 
can see that Thesis has tried to engage with Mr T repeatedly and been unsuccessful. It did 
this during the key three-month period where backdating would have allowed deferment 
periods to continue seamlessly and afterwards where it could try to stop arrears accruing 
further. I see no persuasive evidence of fault on its part. So I dont think Thesis treated Mr T 
unfairly in relation to this period of arrears either, for much the same reasons as the previous 
period. Mr T wasnt in a deferred period based on what it knew so Thesis made efforts to 
liaise with Mr T about this to enable a successful DAF to be submitted to Student Loans 
Company. Which was, in both cases, eventually done successfully. 
Ive not seen in either period persuasive evidence from the Student Loans Company that it 
had told Thesis that Mr T was in deferment when he wasnt or vice versa. And Ive not seen from Mr T evidence that he was making payments during these times which havent been 
applied to his account. So Im not persuaded it has treated him unfairly.
Other matters
Mr T raises the issue of whether there were arrears on his account prior to 27 January 2017. 
And argues that there were not and quoting Thesis paperwork to support this. I appreciate Mr 
Ts logic here and certainly Thesis explanation of the situation isnt overwhelmingly clear. 
However Thesis has confirmed that the only periods where arrears accrued on Mr Ts account 
are the two periods Ive addressed already. I should add that in its submissions to this service 
Thesis has pointed to payment holidays it has applied to Mr Ts accounts where it thought it 
appropriate. I see this as meaning it was the fair thing to do. But whether or not Thesis 
treated Mr T fairly before the periods Ive addressed doesnt mean it has or hasnt in the 
periods Ive described. And as those are the only periods having arrears and one of Mr Ts 
key arguments is around whether his debt will be written off when he reaches a specific 
milestone age (as the rules allow in certain circumstances) then I think its fair to consider 
these two periods as the crux to this dispute.
Mr T refers to correspondence which at best described as a barrage of pestering, intimidating 
and repeated phone calls, emails with no substance whatsoever, other to call Thesis. I can 
see Thesis increased its level of contact with Mr T when he wasnt in a deferral period or 
paying the payments due. Bearing in mind this was in his interest I see no failing here. And I 
see no persuasive evidence of intimidation or harassment. Thesis records show he wasnt in 
deferment or paying so I think it fair it tried to contact him.
Mr T refers to many weeks of delays have been engineered by Thesis and SLC (Student 
Loan Company) due to their disconnection. Ultimately the administration of accounts has 
been outsourced to Thesis. What the Student Loans Company does in relation to its 
processes sit with it. Thesis can only be held responsible for what it is responsible for.
Mr T also says my main basis of complaint(s) is that the deferment process  and more 
particularly  what is deemed as acceptable evidence of earnings, has constantly and 
repeatedly changed. It is evident that over the years the requirements have changed. But 
these rules are not the responsibility of Thesis.
Mr T argues that hes been under the threshold throughout so no arrears should be applied in 
any case. But this isnt for Thesis to decide. Its role is to administer accounts within the 
parameters set. And these include that when accounts are not in deferment they are payable. 
And if payments not made then arrears accrue. And I think Thesis has done this fairly.
I have considered all that has happened here. My current thinking is that Im not persuaded 
Thesis has treated Mr T unfairly for the two periods of arrears described above. In both cases 
when its records showed Mr T wasnt in deferment or paying his payments as required, it 
made efforts to deal with this by contacting Mr T. It often told him his account was in arrears 
and it supplied DAFs to help him apply. So I dont think it has treated him unfairly at this time 
in recording these periods of arrears accruing. So I currently think this complaint shouldnt 
succeed.
My final decision
For the above reasons and those described in my provisional decision (italics) I have 
decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint about Link Financial Outsourcing Limited, trading as 
Thesis Servicing. Accordingly it has nothing further to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-ThomasOmbudsman