DRN-4249711
The complaint
Mr J complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) irresponsibly granted him three personal 
loans (in 2018, 2019 and 2022) that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In September 2018, Mr J took out a loan of £7,500 (account number ending 0808), over a 
term of 60 months, with a monthly payment of £137.55. In July 2019, he took out a further 
loan of £21,500 (account number ending 7835), again over 60 months, with a monthly 
payment of £413.12. Both of these loans were repaid in February 2021. Just under a year 
later, in January 2022, Mr J took out the third loan (account number ending 5311), this time 
for £20,000. Again it was over 60 months, and the monthly payment was £366.81.
I should say here that Mr J had another, earlier, loan with Lloyds (taken out in 2006), and 
although another ombudsman at this service determined that Mr J was within the time limits 
we have to apply in making his complaint about it, neither party could provide any details of 
the loan and therefore Mr J agreed that it would not be looked at further. So this decision is 
only concerned with the three loans detailed above.
In summary, Mr J told us that he had other loans and credit card debts when he took out the 
loans detailed above, and that he ended up with his outgoings exceeding his income, and 
this severely affected his mental health. He borrowed money from family members to repay 
his debts in 2021, and he increased his mortgage and took out the loan in January 2022 to 
repay them.
Lloyds said it had carried out appropriate checks before granting the loans, and told Mr J 
that it did not uphold his complaint. Mr J then brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr J didnt agree, and asked for 
it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month, in which I explained that I disagreed with 
our investigators conclusions and proposed to uphold Mr Js complaint in part. Mr J 
responded to say he had nothing further to add. Lloyds said it accepted my conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided to uphold part of Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering matters such as the type and amount 
of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and 
the consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether Lloyds completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr J would be able to make the repayments on 
each loan account in a sustainable way.
In my provisional decision I set out my reasoning as follows:
Lloyds sent in copies of Mr Js loan agreements, loan statements and his current account 
statements for the relevant periods. Mr J provided a copy of his credit report and information 
about his circumstances when taking out the loans.
Lloyds said that, when granting the loans, it took into account the information given by Mr J, 
what it already knew about him, and information from credit reference agency checks, which 
included credit scoring. It also said it completed checks about affordability, using Mr Js 
monthly income or take-home pay and deducting items such as his share of housing costs, 
any monthly minimum repayments on any debt he already had and an amount for day to day 
living costs. It said Mr J stated his monthly income and share of housing costs, and it then 
used information it held about him and from credit reference agencies to estimate the 
monthly minimum repayments on what he already owed. It estimated expected day-to-day 
living costs using data from the Office of National Statistics Family Spending Survey.
Lloyds said Mr J passed all of its checks, which is why it agreed to lend him the money, and 
it was comfortable with the lending it provided to him.
There were three loans, so Ive looked at each in turn.
Loan ending 0808 (September 2018)
Lloyds records of the loan showed Mr Js monthly income as £2,600, and his mortgage 
payment as £1,050 (although Mr Js bank statements show slightly less than that at £1,016). 
I can see from Mr Js bank statements and credit report that he used most of the loan to pay 
down his credit card balance with Lloyds.
Mr J told us that he was responsible for the full monthly mortgage payment, and this is 
consistent with Lloyds records. From what I can see on Mr Js credit report, at the time of 
taking out this loan, he had a Lloyds credit card with a £7,100 credit limit (held since 2016), 
and a balance which was virtually at the limit, and another credit card with another lender, 
with a limit of £1,600 (I have no information on the balance on that card).
He also had two personal loans with other lenders, with monthly payments totalling just 
under £500. One of these loans had been taken out only ten months earlier, and also used 
to pay down the Lloyds credit card, as well as clear the overdraft on his Lloyds current 
account - Mr J had previously been overdrawn for some while. So the credit card balance 
had increased back to the limit over that ten-month period, with Mr J only making minimum 
payments as far as I can see. I also note that Mr J had had a number of cash advances on 
the credit card in the months leading up to taking this loan.
His average income, based on his statements, was £2,500 over the preceding six months, 
although it looks as though in one of those months Mr J received a bonus, thus increasing 
the average. I note that Lloyds used an estimate for living costs (including things such as 
groceries) but whats on Mr Js bank statements looks higher.
On this loan, Im not satisfied that Lloyds carried out proportionate checks  it seems to me 
that Mr Js borrowing behaviour ought reasonably to have prompted a more detailed review 
of his income and outgoings.If Lloyds had done such a review, I think I wouldve shown that the monthly repayments on 
the new loan were unlikely to be sustainable. I say this because, taking account of the 
commitments detailed above (which seem to me to be higher than the figures used by 
Lloyds), the increase in the credit card balance over the ten months since the earlier loan, 
and the pattern of transactions on his current account (Mr Js balance was frequently very 
low just before being paid), Im not satisfied that he was left with enough disposable income 
to manage those repayments sustainably. So I dont think Lloyds acted fairly in granting this 
loan to Mr J.
Loan ending 7835 (July 2019)
Mr J took out the next loan of £21,500 in July 2019. It was in addition to the loan described 
above, so this left Mr J with four loans overall  the two personal loans with other lenders, 
and two loans with Lloyds.
I can see from Mr Js credit report that, just before taking out this loan, he had also taken out 
a second credit card with Lloyds, with a limit of £6,300, giving him three credit cards in total. 
Part of the loan - £7,000 - was used to repay the balance on one of his credit cards, but the 
rest remained in Mr Js current account and was used over time.
Lloyds records showed Mr Js monthly income as £2,365, and mortgage payment as £600. 
However, Mr J said he was (as with the first loan) responsible for the full mortgage payment 
of just under £1,020 as Mrs J was on maternity leave at that point. That is consistent with 
whats on Mr Js bank statements and what was taken into account on the earlier credit card 
application.
Mr Js average income for the preceding six months, based on his statements, was £2,850 
although again it looks as though Mr J received a bonus that increased the average.
Again, Im not satisfied that Lloyds carried out proportionate checks when granting this loan. 
It was a relatively large amount taken out only ten months after the previous loan, and with 
another credit card only recently having been granted. So I think Lloyds should have carried 
out a more detailed review of Mr Js income and outgoings here too.
If it had done so, I think the repayments on this loan too would have shown as 
unsustainable. The mortgage payment was just under £1,020, and the existing loan 
repayments were £630. When added to an amount to cover repayments on the three credit 
cards, and an amount for living expenses, I cant see that Mr J wouldve been left with 
enough disposable income to sustainably cover the monthly payment of £413.12. So I dont 
think Lloyds acted fairly in granting this loan to Mr J.
Loan ending 5311 (January 2022)
The third loan of £20,000 was granted to Mr J in January 2022. He said that it was taken to 
repay family members after having borrowed from them the previous year to deal with his 
financial difficulties. I can see from Mr Js bank statements that in February 2021, large 
amounts were paid into his bank account, and then transferred out to repay the personal 
loans and the credit cards. The credit record shows all of these accounts as being closed at 
that time.
In January 2022, Lloyds record of this loan showed Mr Js monthly income as £2,374 and 
mortgage payment as £625.Mr Js bank statements show his monthly income as around £2,307. It seems that Mr J had 
increased his mortgage shortly before his application for this loan, so the monthly mortgage 
payment on the bank statements was just over £1,200. The mortgage was in joint names, 
but Mr J told us he was responsible for the full mortgage payment. Mr Js credit report and 
statements dont show any other credit cards or loans having been taken out since he 
cleared everything in February 2021.
On this loan, I think Lloyds checks were proportionate. It was two and a half years after Mr 
Js previous loan application, and nearly a year since he had repaid all of his loans and 
credit cards. Mr Js current account was generally in credit. So I cant see that Mr Js 
circumstances would have prompted a more detailed review. Ive taken account of Mr Js 
mortgage payment, in that, even if he was responsible for the full payment, I still think Mr J 
would have had enough disposable income, after considering living costs, to manage the 
repayments sustainably. So I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in granting this loan.
I further said in my provisional decision that, having carefully considered all of the evidence 
and information, my conclusion was that Lloyds acted unfairly in granting the loans in 
September 2018 and July 2019, so I proposed to uphold Mr Js complaint with regard to 
these two loans. But I didnt propose to uphold his complaint about the third loan.
As I noted above, Mr J said he had nothing further to add, and Lloyds said it accepted my 
provisional decision. So on that basis I have no reason to change my conclusions and I am 
therefore upholding Mr Js complaint about the loans granted in 2018 and 2019, but not his 
complaint about the loan granted in 2022. 
Lloyds asked that I direct that the compensation be applied to the current loan to reduce Mr 
Js borrowing. However, it has confirmed that there are no arrears on the loan, and therefore 
there is no reason for me to accept this request. So the compensation should be paid 
directly to Mr J. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr J to repay the capital that he borrowed in 2018 and 
2019, because he had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on 
loans that shouldnt have been provided to him. Lloyds must put this right, so it should:
Refund all interest and charges Mr J paid on the loans granted in 2018 and 2019.
As reworking Mr Js loan accounts in this way will result in him having effectively 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, Lloyds should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement.
Remove adverse information (if any) recorded on Mr Js credit file in relation to the 
loans granted in 2018 and 2019.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr J a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr Js complaint about the loans granted in 2018 and 2019, but not 
the loan granted in 2022. Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr J the compensation Ive 
described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman