DRN-3860427
The complaint
Mr J complains about the repairs that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited made to his car 
following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to write off his car and pay 
him its value. 
What happened
Mr J was involved in a non-fault accident and Admiral took his car to its approved repairers 
for repair. But Mr J was unhappy with the standard of the repairs. He wanted Admiral to pay 
him the cars value. He listed various problems with the car.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
should have its approved repairer examine the car and consider Mr Js concerns and rectify 
them or pay him the cars value, as it saw fit, if they were accident-related. He also thought 
that if Mr J remained unhappy, then he should obtain an independent engineers report to 
show that the repairs were inadequate. 
After the complaint came to us, Admiral had an independent engineer inspect the car. He 
recommended further repairs should be made. Admiral offered to return the car to the 
approved repairer to complete these. Or it offered that Mr J could obtain his own repairs 
estimate and it would pay him a cash sum to cover this. It also paid Mr J £400 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused and its poor communication with him. 
Our Investigator thought Admiral had made two reasonable offers to rectify the repairs to the 
car. He couldnt say that Admiral needed to declare the car to be a total loss as it was 
repairable. And he thought Admirals offer of compensation was fair and reasonable for the 
trouble and upset caused by it not completing the repairs adequately the first time. 
Mr J replied that his concerns about how the car handled and rattling noises from the rear 
hadnt been investigated. He declined Admirals offer and asked for an Ombudsmans 
review. So his complaint has come to me for a final decision. Mr J provided videos of his car 
to show his concerns.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Js accident. I can understand that it must have been a 
traumatic experience and that it has left him stressed. I can see that its now a year later and 
Mr J is still unhappy that his car hasnt been fully repaired. I can understand that this must be 
frustrating for him. I can also understand that it must be upsetting to be in this position 
following an accident that was no fault of his own. 
Mr J wanted Admiral to declare his car a total loss and make him a cash payment for its 
value. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mr Js policy states on page 13 of the policy booklet:
What we will pay
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either pay.
 to repair your vehicle
 a cash sum to replace the damaged vehicle
So I think Admirals entitled to decide how to deal with the claim. And in this case, it has 
decided to repair Mr Js car even though this was at considerable cost. But the repair costs 
were still much less than the cars market value. I cant require Admiral to deem the car to be 
a total loss if its repairable. 
Admiral has agreed that it didnt complete the cars repairs fully the first time around. It 
instructed an independent engineer to inspect the car and he found that further accident-
related work needed to be done. And it gave Mr J two options to complete these repairs and 
Mr J took the car back to the repairer for further work. Admiral also declined to repair 
damage to the other side of the car as this was pre-existing. I think thats fair and reasonable 
as Admiral is only responsible for repairing accident-related damage under the claim.
After the car was first repaired, from what I can see, Mr J raised concerns about the repairs 
but didnt then take the car back to the repairer for investigation. I would expect this to be the 
first step he would take to get matters resolved. And I can see that Admiral has accepted 
that it should have been more proactive to get this done. 
After the complaint came to us, Admiral instructed the independent engineer to inspect the 
cars repairs. He carried out a visual inspection. The further accident-related repairs he 
identified were then carried out. Mr J then corresponded with the repairer about further 
issues when he drove the car and hes provided us with these emails. In these, Mr J 
reported that the repairer had driven the car and didnt note any problems. 
Mr J said he had the car serviced, but I cant see that this identified any issues with its 
driveability. Mr J took his car back to the repairers, for a road test. But he said the technician 
said the car was fine. Mr J has provided us with videos demonstrating a noise when the car 
brakes and a rattle. But were not engineers and its not for me to decide whether or not 
these concerns are related to the accident or previous repairs. 
But Mr J thinks there is mechanical damage caused to his car by the accident or the repairs 
that hasnt been repaired. I can see that, at the start of the claim, Mr J raised his concerns 
with Admiral saying that he didnt feel safe driving the car. And he continues to be worried by 
this. But I havent seen any engineering evidence to show that there are mechanical 
problems with the car that are related to the accident. 
Following the independent engineers report, Admiral agreed to carry out a full vehicle health 
check on the car. I think this would identify any mechanical issues that were accident-
related. And, if it does, then I would expect Admiral to repair them under the claim. 
If Mr J remains unhappy, then I think its for Mr J to show that his concerns are claim-related. 
Admiral has already instructed the independent engineer and he found the car to be 
roadworthy but recommended the vehicle health check. The repairer took the car for a road 
test and found the car to be fine. Our Investigator recommended that Mr J should obtain his 
own independent assessors report if he remains concerned. 
The Investigator also recommended that if the report shows that further accident-related 
repairs are needed, then Admiral should either pay for these or pay Mr J cash to have them 
done. And it should then also reimburse Mr J for the cost of the report and pay him £150 
compensation for the trouble caused. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I agree that Admirals repairer should have completed the work fully when it first carried out 
the repairs. And Im satisfied that the options Admiral gave Mr J are fair and reasonable, and 
in keeping with his policys terms and conditions. Im also satisfied that Admiral should have 
communicated better with Mr J, including telling him about the planned independent 
inspection. And I think its payment of £400 compensation for this and its service failings is 
fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do the following, as its already agreed to 
do:
1. Carry out the rectification work identified by the independent assessor, including the 
vehicle health check, and any further accident or repairs-related damage this identifies. 
2. Consider any independent engineers report provided by Mr J if it shows that there are 
further accident or repairs-related issues yet to be rectified. It should then either pay for 
these repairs or pay Mr J cash to have them made, reimburse Mr J for the cost of the 
report, and pay him £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.  
3. Pay Mr J £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling 
of his claim, as its already done. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman