DRN-3004680
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) decision to decline her home insurance
claim for storm damage.
What happened
In October 2020 Ms S reported damage to her home as a result of water coming through her
roof to AXA, the provider of her home insurance policy. She reported the damage to AXA on
13 October 2020 but said this had been caused by the heavy rain on 2 October 2020 which
she had first noticed on 3 October 2020.
AXA declined the claim as it didnt believe the weather conditions at the time the damage
appeared were consistent with a storm as set out in the terms and conditions. They also
considered the quotes and images Ms S provided and said that they thought the damage
was likely due to wear and tear. Ms S also didnt have accidental damage cover under her
policy, so couldnt claim for that either.
Ms S was unhappy with AXAs claim decision and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. He looked at the weather
records and he thought storm conditions were present on or around the time the damage
was noticed. He also didnt think that AXA had done enough to prove that the exclusion of
wear and tear applied in this case. So, he asked AXA to look at the claim again.
Ms S accepted the investigators view, but AXA disagreed saying under the policy terms,
storm conditions werent present at the time the damage occurred, and that wear and tear
was the likely dominant cause.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my findings, before I reached my final decision.
My provisional findings
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it will disappoint Ms S, Im minded to reach a
different outcome to our investigator. But I think its important to acknowledge here 
its clear theres damage to Ms S property which has no doubt caused a great deal of 
upset.
Whats in dispute here is whether the damage to Ms S home was caused by an 
insured event under her policy. So, its for me to decide whether AXA acted fairly and 
reasonably when declining her claim.
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality that could occur. Insurers are free to 
decide what events they want to provide cover for. They can also include exclusions 
in policies for events they dont want to offer cover for.
In this case the policy does provide cover for storm damage if there are storm 
conditions. But it also doesnt cover damage caused by wear and tear, deterioration, 
or loss or damage that happens gradually over time. AXA has relied both on the lack 
of storm conditions as defined in the policy, and the wear and tear exclusion, when 
deciding not to pay the claim.
Ms S says there was very bad weather around the time she noticed the ingress of 
water and she thinks these specific weather conditions caused the damage to her 
home.
AXA initially looked at the possibility of a storm, which is an insured event, being the 
cause of the damage. When we look at complaints about storm damage we consider 
three questions. If the answer to all three is yes then its likely we will say the claim 
should be paid. But if the answer to any is no, then its unlikely a claim would 
succeed.
Were there Storm Conditions?
Ms S has said there was bad weather with wind and rain at the time she discovered 
the damage. Bad weather itself isnt an insured event, it needs to be a storm. AXA 
has said the weather conditions around the time Ms S noticed the damage didn't 
constitute a storm under her policy terms.
Mr S policy defines a storm as,
A period of violent weather defined as:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph)
or
Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour
or
Snow to a depth of at least one foot (30cms) in 24 hours
or
Hail of such intensity that is causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks 
glass.
Ms S has said she first noticed the damage on 3 October 2020 following bad weather 
the day before. Ive checked the weather conditions for around that time. There was 
some heavy rain the morning Ms S says she noticed the damage but no high winds. 
Although I accept it was heavy rain, this doesnt seem to have been intense enough, 
on its own and in the absence of high winds, to cause damage to an otherwise well-
maintained roof that wasnt suffering from any existing issues. And the level of rainfall 
itself was less than that defined as a storm in Ms S policy.
Ive also checked the weather reports to see if there were any storm force winds 
and/or rainfall leading up to when the claim was made. However, none of the reported weather would meet the definition of a storm under the policy or be what I 
might reasonably consider to be a storm in the weeks before the damage was 
reported.
Given this, and whilst I accept there was heavy rainfall alone, in the absence of any 
strong winds, Im not persuaded that there were storm conditions at or around the 
time Ms S noticed the damage, or that there has been a storm as defined in the 
policy either. So, Im not minded to conclude AXA has acted unfairly in declining Ms 
S claim on the basis there wasnt a storm. However, its important to note this wasnt 
the only reason AXA declined the claim, so Ive also considered that further below.
Is the damage of a type consistent with that caused by a storm and was that the main
cause?
Water entering a home through a damaged roof more generally could be considered 
storm type damage. And its clear damage has been caused when the internal ceiling 
became wet. Ms S said that it got worse to the point it then collapsed.
Here however, there doesnt appear to be any external roof damage which then led 
to water entering. Ms S roofer has quoted for removing six rows of tiles and refitting 
them. They havent said that theres been any storm damage, which then resulted in 
the water entering.
And theyve quoted for what, in my view, is maintenance type work for a longer-term 
issue thats been highlighted by the weather at the time. Theyve included removing 
the moss from the six rows of tiles, and then re-attaching the tiles and sealing them 
with tile sealant to ensure the roof is water tight.
Theyve said that the membrane is compromised, but theyve not identified how thats
happened. And the works theyve quoted for dont seem to indicate any missing or 
damaged tiles. Its not clear how the membrane would have been compromised and 
split in several areas by rainfall alone, given its designed to make the roof under the 
tiles waterproof, unless there were historic issue with it.
The quote also includes replacing rotten battens. And that type of damage, rot, is 
more likely to occur over a period of time, than as a result of a one-off storm event.
So even if there were storm conditions, Im not satisfied, based on what Ive seen, 
that there has been storm type damage to the roof. Water has entered the property, 
thats not disputed. But I dont think a storm has occurred, and there isnt any 
external damage consistent with storm type damage which has then led to that 
either. Ms S also doesnt have accidental damage cover under her policy, so couldnt 
claim for this either.
AXA has said it thinks the damage was caused by water entering the property as a 
result of wear and tear to the roof. They say its likely the tiles have moved due to the 
build-up of moss, which has then allowed water to enter.
A surveyor completed a video survey of the internal damage and a number of 
photographs were provided of the inside of Ms S home including in the roof space. 
But I can only see that the one external photograph of the roof was provided, which 
doesnt show storm type damage as Ive outlined. Ms S attempted to get a roofers 
opinion on the cause of the damage but was unable to do this.As I said, the photo of the roof doesnt show any signs of damage that would usually 
be consistent with the type of damage usually caused by storm conditions, but it does 
show a significant amount of moss. In addition to this, Ms S has obtained a quote for 
the roof, which is more consistent with maintenance type works, rather than damage 
as a result of rainfall alone.
The surveyors opinion was that wear and tear was the likely cause of the water 
ingress. So, the damage would have come about as a result of wear and tear with 
the main roof that was highlighted by the bad weather when the rain came through, 
rather than the damage being a result of the bad weather itself. And on balance, 
having considered the quotes, images and video recording, Im inclined to agree with 
this position. Therefore, even if there were storm conditions (which Im not persuaded 
there were) the damage wouldnt be covered under the policy as the wear and tear 
exclusion set out under the policy would still apply.
So, having considered everything provided by both parties, and unless anything 
changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, Im minded to 
conclude the claim has been fairly declined under the terms of Ms S policy by AXA.
So, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint or to ask AXA to do anything further.
The responses to my provisional decision
AXA responded to my provisional decision and said they had nothing further to add.
Ms S responded, she said she was disappointed with my provisional findings but noted the 
reasoning behind it. She also provided information surrounding the weather at the time 
across the country. 
Ms S also said that prior to when she reported the damage, she didnt have any issues with 
her roof and had maintained the gutters over the previous years since purchasing her home. 
She feels this is evidence that her roof has suffered storm damage. Ms S also said she first 
contacted her insurer a few days prior and was waiting for a roofer. She also commented on 
the weather at the time and that this coincided with the damage.
In addition, Ms S also said she noted I said she didnt have accidental damage, and shed 
raised a separate mis-selling complaint about this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, and 
whilst I do appreciate it will disappoint Ms S, I havent reached a different outcome.
Firstly I should clarify that Im not disputing there was bad weather, including heavy rainfall 
across the country, and in the area, at the time damage was caused to Ms S home (and 
neither are AXA). But bad weather isnt an insured event under Ms S policy. Rather it needs 
to be a storm which has caused the damage being claimed for, and then no exclusion under 
the policy which applies. As Ive outlined, based on the weather records for the time of the 
loss, there werent weather conditions which reached those defined as a storm in Ms S 
policy. But AXA didnt just decline it on this basis. I do agree there was heavy rainfall, and a high level over the course of the day. But the 
weather records for the area dont indicate the wind levels Id generally expect to see 
accompanying heavy rainfall during a storm that would cause damage to a property. And in 
the absence of this, I wouldnt ordinarily expect heavy rainfall alone, even a high amount 
over the course of a day (which I dont dispute occurred), to cause damage to, or to allow 
ingress through, an otherwise well-maintained roof that wasnt suffering pre-existing issues. 
So I think here the weather at the time highlighted an existing issue with the roof, and an 
ingress of water then caused damage. I think this is supported by the type of works required 
in the quote Ms S obtained for her roof, without any actual damage caused to it which is 
consistent with storm type damage.
When reaching my findings, I do also acknowledge Ms S has had the gutters cleaned 
regularly. But as I said in my provisional decision, the quote shes provided for repairs is 
more along the lines of maintenance works, rather than damage caused by a one-off storm. 
The report doesnt say how or why there is storm related damage. Instead it quotes for 
removing and refitting tiles after weather sealing them and removing moss. And it says the 
membrane is compromised in several areas, but its unclear in the absence of actual 
reported damage to the roof itself, how that wouldve been caused unless there was an 
existing issue with it. 
The quote also includes replacing rotten battens inside the roof, which indicates, given they 
are rotten, that this has been caused over time by water ingressing, rather than due to the 
level of rainfall in isolation at that specific time. So in my view, this also supports that there 
was an existing issue with the roof, which was then highlighted during a period of bad 
weather and heavy rainfall. And that it was due to this that water then entered causing 
damage, rather than due to the level of rainfall at that time alone.
I do note Ms S comments that Id mentioned she didnt have accidental damage and her 
views on this. But I mentioned this because I was also considering if there were any other 
parts of her policy which might be able to cover the damage. But Ms S unfortunately doesnt 
have accidental damage cover under her policy. I note Ms S comments surrounding the sale 
of the policy, but thats a separate complaint against the seller of the policy and not 
something which I can consider here against AXA. As Ms S doesnt have additional 
accidental damage cover, then I cant ask AXA to consider a claim for damage on that basis 
either.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman