DRN-4418277
The complaint
Miss M complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus lent 
irresponsibly when it approved her credit card application. 
What happened
In August 2021 Miss M applied for a credit card with Cashplus. In the application, Miss M 
said she had an income of £30,000 a year. Cashplus carried out a credit search and says it 
found unsecured credit in her name. Cashplus says that when it applied its lending criteria it 
found Miss M had £268 disposable income after her living costs and commitments were 
paid. Cashplus approved Miss Ms application and sent her a credit card with a limit of 
£1,500. 
Earlier this year, Miss M complained that Cashplus had lent irresponsibly when it approved 
her credit card. Cashplus issued a final response but didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Ms case and upheld it. They thought that 
Cashplus shouldve carried out better checks when it was looking at Miss Ms credit card 
application. The investigator said that if Cashplus had carried out more comprehensive 
checks, like looking at Miss Ms bank statements, they would most likely have declined her 
application. 
Cashplus asked to appeal and said a thorough credit search had been completed that didnt 
return information showing adverse credit. Cashplus also said Miss Ms credit file didnt show 
any evidence of credit searches carried out in the previous 12 months and no evidence of 
payday loans. As Cashplus asked to appeal, Miss Ms complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
Ive looked at the evidence supplied by Cashplus. I can see it asked Miss M for her personal 
details and income. But theres nothing in the information provided that shows Cashplus 
asked Miss M about her residential status or other regular outgoings. With that said, I note 
Cashplus says that after it deducted Miss Ms regular expenses and credit commitments she 
was left with around £286 a month as disposable income. 
Cashplus also says it carried out a credit search to get a detailed picture of Miss Ms 
outgoings. Our investigator noted Miss M already had a reasonable level of credit, including 
short term loans, when she applied to Cashplus. In response, Cashplus said there was no 
evidence of other credit searches carried out against Miss M in the 12 months before she 
applied. But Ive looked at Miss Ms credit file and can see various new credit commitments, 
including a secured loan, unsecured loans and credit card all opened in the 12 months 
before she applied to Cashplus. 
Whilst I note Cashplus response, I think the amount of new debt Miss M had incurred in the 
period before her credit card application indicated she was reliant on credit to make ends 
meet. I think the information on Miss Ms credit file shouldve caused it to carry out more 
comprehensive checks before proceeding. 
Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. Obtaining evidence of a borrowers 
income or reviewing their bank statements are options available. Miss Ms sent us her bank 
statements for the months immediately preceding her credit card application. I can see that 
Miss M wasnt receiving pay in line with the figure given in the application form. And the bank 
statements show evidence of further borrowing at a reasonable level from other lenders in 
the months leading up to the credit card application as well. Im satisfied Miss Ms bank 
statements show she was reliant on credit and likely unable to support further borrowing. In 
my view, if Cashplus had carried out better checks, like looking at Miss Ms bank statements, 
it wouldve most likely found that further borrowing wasnt sustainable for Miss M and 
declined her application. 
Having considered all the available evidence, I agree with Miss M that Cashplus lent 
irresponsibly. As a result, Im upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited trading as Cashplus to settle as follows: 
- Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied from inception
- If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss M along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Cashplus should also remove all adverse information regarding 
this account from Miss Ms credit file
- Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Cashplus should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Miss M for the remaining amount. Once Miss M 
has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from her credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashplus to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. 
If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman