DRN-4333878
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to protect her from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money once shed 
reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In March 2022, Mrs P saw an advert on social media about a police officer who had made 
£10,000 profit from investing £250 in cryptocurrency. She clicked on a link which took her to 
a sign-up page, which she completed. She was then contacted by someone claiming to work 
for a company Ill refer to as F, who explained the process and assured her that if the 
investment didnt work, shed get her money back.
Mrs P felt the broker was charismatic, confident, and knowledgeable. She searched for 
reviews about F online and discussed with the broker his personal circumstances and how 
the opportunity had given his children the best possible life. He told her to first purchase 
cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company and then load the 
cryptocurrency onto her online wallet. He also told her to download Anydesk so he could 
complete trades on her behalf by remotely accessing her device.
On 19 April 2022, Mrs P made a payment of £7,000 to an account she held with W, 
followed by a further payment of £1,000 on 20 April 2022. She tried to make a further 
payment of £195 on 30 April 2022, but the payment was blocked.
Mrs P contacted Monzo when she realised shed been the victim of a scam, but it refused to 
refund any money. It said the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code didnt apply 
because it had been sent to an international account and it had executed the payments in 
accordance with her instructions. It also said it provides education in relation to scams and 
she didnt take sufficient steps to verify the investment was genuine. It said the fact she 
learned about the investment online should have raised concerns and she didnt search 
Trustpilot or check if the broker was registered with the FCA.
Mrs P wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service. She explained she didnt think 
the social media platform would allow scammers to advertise and the payments were 
unusual so Monzo should have intervened to give her an effective warning. She said the 
highest transaction on her account in the three months prior to the scam was for £606.12 on 
18 April 2022, and her general spending is low value, so the payments were unusual. 
Her representative explained Mrs P had never invested before and had believed the story 
shed read on social media. They said the payments were unusual when compared to Mrs 
Ps general spending habits, as she uses her account for small spending and to pay bills via 
direct debit. These were international payments through W, which Mrs P had to pre-fund 
from an external account. They said Monzo should have contacted Mrs P and had a 
conversation after which it would have been apparent that she had fallen victim to a scam.
They also said she didnt receive an effective pop-up notification or scam warning when she 
made the payments and the messages she received were generic. They said Monzo should 
have asked questions around the purpose of the payment, including how she found out 
about the company, whether shed done any research, whether shed checked the FCA 
register, whether shed been promised unrealistic returns, whether shed received any 
withdrawals, whether there was a third party involved and whether shed downloaded a 
screensharing device, and with this information it should have realised Mrs P was falling 
victim to an elaborate investment scam. 
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She said the first payment was high 
when compared to Mrs Ps usual account activity, using up almost her entire available 
balance and it was to a new, international payee. She didnt think the information on Monzos 
website was sufficient and Monzo ought to have contacted Mrs P to ask probing questions 
and give a full scam warning.
Our investigator was satisfied that if Mrs P was asked about the payment, she wouldve 
explained the payments related to cryptocurrency and shed downloaded Anydesk for her 
broker to make investment choices on her behalf. And with that information Monzo should 
reasonably have identified this had the hallmarks of a scam and taken steps to provide a 
warning, which might have prevented her loss.
Monzo has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. Its said the 
payments arent covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code and it 
didnt need to flag the payments just because they were higher amounts to an international 
payee. It said it partners with W, so it isnt unusual for customers to send money 
internationally.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mrs P says shes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo has said the CRM code didnt apply in this 
case because the disputed payments were international payments, and Im satisfied thats 
fair.
Im also satisfied Mrs P authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Mrs P is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Mrs P didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did 
authorise the disputed payments. Monzo is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Monzo could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity, but Monzo had an obligation to be 
alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I need to 
consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mrs P when he tried to make the 
payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect Monzo to 
intervene with a view to protecting Mrs P from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Monzos systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mrs P 
normally ran her account and think they were. The first payment was for £7,000, which is 
significantly higher than any of the payments she made in the months prior to the scam. And 
it was an international payment to a new payee. So, I think this payment was unusual and 
that Monzo did miss an opportunity to intervene. 
I think Monzo should reasonably have blocked the payment and contacted Mrs P before 
releasing the payment. During the call I would expect it to have asked some probing 
questions around the purpose of the payment, whether there was a third party involved, how 
she met the third party, whether shed done any checks and whether shed been told to 
download remote access software, in response to which I think its likely shed have 
explained she found F online and the fact shed been told to download Anydesk.
Im satisfied that if Mrs P had been asked these questions, shed have answered truthfully 
because theres no evidence of her having misled the bank before or that she was told to do 
so by the scammers. And so, Im satisfied that Monzo would likely have gathered enough 
information to suggest the investment could be a scam. I would then expect Monzo to have 
warned Mrs P about the risks associated with the investment and explained that the 
circumstances had the hallmarks of a common investment scam. Id also expect it to discuss 
with her the nature of the checks shed undertaken and to give some advice on additional 
due diligence.
There were no regulatory warnings about F with either the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) or International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), but I havent 
seen any evidence that Mrs P was keen to take risks and she didnt have a history of high-
risk investing. So, I think that if shed had any inkling this might be a scam, its likely shed 
have chosen not to go ahead with the payments.
Because of this, I think that Monzo missed an opportunity to intervene in circumstances 
when to do so might have prevented her loss. Consequently, Im minded to direct Monzo to 
refund the money she lost.
Contributory negligence
Ive considered whether the settlement should be reduced for contributory negligence, but I 
dont think it does. Mrs P has explained that the scammer appeared knowledgeable and 
competent, and she genuinely believed this was a genuine investment opportunity.Having considered the circumstances of this scam, Im satisfied it was sophisticated and I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs P to have thought it was genuine. Shes said she did 
some basic online research, and this left her feeling confident about the investment. 
Consequently, whilst there may be cases where a reduction for contributory negligence is 
appropriate, I dont think this is one of them.
Overall, Im satisfied Monzo missed an opportunity to intervene when Mrs P made the first 
payment and so it should refund the money she lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that Monzo Bank Ltd should: 
refund £8,000.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If Monzo Bank Ltd deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Mrs P with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman