DRN-3641050
The complaint
Mr C says the advice given and the arrangements made by Attanta Limited to switch his 
personal pension with Prudential into the Pointon York (PY) Self-invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP), with a discretionary fund management (DFM) arrangement though Reyker Securities 
(RS) and the resulting portfolio of investments, was unsuitable.
Mr C is represented by Mendelsons Solicitors (MS)
What happened
Mr C was approached by a firm called IPS Invest Ltd to undertake a review of his pension 
arrangements. It then referred him to Attanta (trading as Harrison Charles Wealth 
Management) for financial advice. In October 2016 it held a telephone conversation with Mr 
C. It recorded that he wanted to switch his Prudential pension as he was disappointed with 
its performance.
Mr Cs objectives were recorded in the following terms:
You have confirmed that your main objective is to ensure that your pensions are working as 
hard as they can for you. You want to maximise the growth potential of your pensions whilst 
maintaining investmentsin line with your balanced attitude to risk. You are aiming to retire 
once you reach age 65 and expect that with the retirement provisions you currently have, 
you should be able to live in the same comfort you currently enjoy.
You have accrued benefits over your working life from various occupational pension 
schemes, you currently have 3 pensions and would like to be able to eventually consolidate 
these into the one plan. All 3 of these plans are paid up (frozen) and you don't intend to 
make any future contributions.
Your employer has recently introduced a workplace pension scheme which you will be 
enrolling into, you have stated that you wouldn't want to transfer any of your current plans 
into this due to the restrictive investment choice.
we have agreed toimmediately look at the Prudential plan. The Guinness Mahon 
pension plan is invested in investments that don't mature for another 3-4 years and as such 
this is to remain as is.
Attanta produced a suitability report for Mr C dated December 2016. In summary it 
recommended he should:
- Switch his existing Prudential personal pension into a PY SIPP.
- Invest the funds in line with his assessed balanced attitude to risk through a 
DFM arrangement with RS and its Real Assets Balanced Portfolio.
Attantas recommendations were implemented. The suitability report indicates a transfer 
value for Mr Cs Prudential pension of around £97,200. After initial fees and charges 
around £94,700 was said to have been invested in his new SIPP.  
In July 2020, on behalf of Mr C, MS raised several concerns with Attanta about what had 
happened to his pension arrangements in 2016. It cited a failure to meet its regulatory 
obligations. It said the advice to move from his existing pension had been unsuitable. He 
had a low tolerance for risk. It said the investments made with his pension funds had been 
inappropriate. It said Mr C had suffered significant financial detriment as a result of its 
actions.
Attanta responded to Mr Cs complaint in September 2020, refuting all the points raised. It 
said its advice had been suitable for him.
The Investigator reviewed Mr Cs complaint and upheld it. He had concerns about the 
advice Attanta provided, in particular in relation to matters such as costs of the new 
arrangement; the prospects for him to have been better off as a result of the transaction 
and aspects of his exposure to risk.
Attanta disagreed with the Investigators findings and conclusions. It maintained its advice 
had been suitable, appropriate for Mr Cs objectives, circumstances and risk outlook. It had 
performed proper due diligence on the DFM and SIPP provider and that he should direct 
any claim via the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS)
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Cs complaint was passed to 
me to review afresh and to provide a decision. This is the final stage of this Services 
involvement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, 
my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Cs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Attanta for Mr C. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G 
in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
- Principle 3 - which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control 
its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of it s 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at 
the relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Attanta. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment 
business carried on for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business 
includes arranging (bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the 
advice was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information 
regarding: the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to 
the advice; their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at 
their circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those 
wants or needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the 
switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mr Cs best interests to make the 
advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made between 
his former pensions and the recommended new arrangement.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted 
four key issues it thought should be focussed on:
-Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive 
than their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good 
reason? This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a 
guaranteed annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their 
recorded attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a 
need for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in 
place.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about 
SIPPs. For example, in April 2014 it issued an industry alert which said:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, 
then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be 
held within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as 
it will not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.Further, when considering the use of a DFM, the regulator has made clear that 
amongst other matters, firms need to take into account issues such as:
- Likely cost: do the overall costs justify the potential for improved performance?
- Size of funds under management: once a consumer has a moderately-sized fund, 
they may benefit from a model portfolio which is rebalanced automatically by a 
DFM ranging all the way up to bespoke arrangements for clients with larger funds.
- Investors knowledge and experience: FCA has said the adviser needed a 
reasonable belief that the investor could understand the nature of the risks of 
the underlying investments the DFM might make.
- Level of disclosure: whether the benefits vs cost of the arrangement were 
explained to the investor in terms they were likely to (or appeared to) understand.
The regulator was clear there was a positive obligation on the adviser to carry out 
research, rather than supplying the DFM with a risk rating and hoping all will be right in 
the end. They were recommending a DFM as a solution to their clients needs and that 
meant looking under the bonnet.
Did Attanta meet the regulatory obligations it was bound by when advising Mr C?
I dont think Attanta met the requirements placed on it in this case. Ill explain why.
There are several documents relating to Attantas transaction with Mr C that are 
important to my consideration, these include the fact-find, risk appetite questionnaire, 
pension replacement analysis form and the suitability report.
Attanta recorded that Mr C was 53 at the time of the advice. He was in good health and a 
non-smoker. He was married with two children. One child was at university while the other 
was in employment and soon to be married. 
Mr C was employed as an IT manager with total annual income of around £79,000 per 
annum and had been in the same employment for 20 years. His household had total monthly 
net income of about £4,100 with monthly commitments of around £3,800. Mr C and his wife 
had total assets of £227,000 and investments of £30,000. Their home was subject to a small 
outstanding mortgage of approximately £32,000, with five years remaining.
In terms of pension provision, Mr C had a money purchase occupational pension through his 
employer with a current value of about £57,000 into which his employer was paying 4% of 
salary. He had a SIPP with Guinness Mahon valued at £190,000. And he had a personal 
pension with Prudential, which was recorded as being worth £85,000. 
Mr Cs main objective was recorded in the following terms (bolding is my emphasis):
During our meeting we discussed the importance of addressing specific objectives, giving 
thought to specific target amounts required and the time in which you have to meet 
these targets. 
You have confirmed that your main objective is to ensure that your pensions are 
working as hard as they can for you. You want to maximise the growth potential of your 
pensions whilst maintaining investments in line with your balanced attitude to risk. You are 
aiming to retire once you reach age 65 and expect that with the retirement provisions 
you currently have, you should be able to live in the same comfort you currently 
enjoy.There are some basic problems with the information Attanta has provided. For example, I 
cant see evidence of modelling carried out which shows how the advice it gave Mr C in 
2016, came together to deliver his income requirements in retirement.
I cant see Attanta conducted a full comparison between his existing Prudential plan and 
the arrangement it was putting in place. And how this contributed to achieving his 
retirement objectives. I think such analysis wouldve been important to his being able to 
take an informed decision about what to do with his personal pension. 
Attantas role wasnt simply to facilitate what Mr C was said to have wanted. Its role was 
to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised him about what was in his best 
interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many years are to 
provide for a retirement income.
So, these fundamental problems with Attantas approach undermined the rationale for the 
switch of Mr Cs personal pension. It recommended he switched into an PY SIPP, with a 
DFM arrangement though RS and to invest in a balanced portfolio of assets. There are a 
number of serious specific weaknesses with its advice.
Charges
The charges for the new plan were disclosed as an annual fund charge of 0.9% equating to 
£848.65 and annual platform charge of £150 + VAT. Costs and charges between the new 
SIPP and the existing Prudential plan were compared. This showed the new arrangement 
would be slightly cheaper.
There are a couple of problems here. Firstly, I note that the RS portfolio Mr C was investing 
in also carried a dealing charge of 0.2%, this was omitted from the suitability report. But 
more significantly, on top of product charges, there would be adviser charges.
Attantas charges were set out clearly in the suitability report. There was an initial fee of 3% 
of Mr Cs fund value which equated to around £2,900. And an ongoing annual adviser 
charge of 1% of his fund, equating to about £970. These charges were to be taken directly 
from the new SIPP.
So, in reality the charges Mr C faced flowing from Attantas recommendations were actually 
around 1% higher than he incurred under his previous arrangements. That meant in order for 
the proposed switch to be in his best interest, his new RS portfolio needed a realistic 
prospect of outperforming his Prudential personal pension  firstly to recoup the higher level 
of charges and then to deliver better returns to him.
Mr C wanted his pension to work hard and to maximise potential growth, while 
maintaining investments in line with his balanced attitude to risk. It was recorded hed 
been very disappointed with the performance of his Prudential pension. Obviously, it 
wasnt for him to be the judge in terms of the prospects for improved investment returns 
under RSs management nor how this compared with his existing plan. Attanta needed 
to provide its assessment.
I cant see that Mr C was informed by Attanta about the performance of his former personal 
pension. In order to exceed the drag of increased costs and then provide an improved 
return on investment, there needed to be a reasonable prospect of significant performance 
improvement under the new arrangements. Further, Ive not seen that he was provided 
with a comparison against the yield being targeted by RLs balanced portfolio.On reviewing the factsheet for the Real Assets Balanced Portfolio recommended by Attanta, 
it shows a target return of 5 to 5.5% per annum. Analytic data summarised by Harrison 
Charles Wealth Management on 11 November 2016 shows that Mr Cs existing Prudential 
pension plan delivered the following discrete annual performance: 2011  0.82%; 2012  
11.02%; 2013  19.33%; 2014  8.81%; and 2015  6.09%.
As the Investigator noted in his view, this showed that in four of the preceding five years Mr 
Cs existing pension investments had outperformed the return being targeted by his new 
SIPP investment. Further, his existing investments over that period had significantly 
outperformed the benchmark  FTSE All Share  Dec 85, whilst also being marginally less 
volatile.
Whether Mr C told Attanta that hed been very disappointed with the performance of his 
Prudential pension, or as he remembers it Attanta telling his funds could be better invested 
elsewhere, the analysis indicates a fundamentally different picture. And it was Attantas 
responsibility to have conveyed this clearly to him because it had to act with skill and care, 
and in his best interest.
Attanta hasnt responded effectively on this matter. It follows that it hasnt done enough to 
satisfy me there was a clear potential for Mr C to be better off, compared to his then 
existing personal pension, as a result of its recommendations, given the fees and charges 
he was incurring and the nature of the investment strategy it was recommending. The basis 
for its recommendation for him to switch was flawed.
Risk
Mr C completed a risk appetite assessment. Attanta said he was a balanced investor. It 
went on to describe this in the following terms:
The Balanced investor may be somewhat concerned with short-term losses and may shift to 
a more stable option in the event of significant losses. The safeties of investment and return 
are typically of equal importance to the Balanced investor.
Id start by noting that Mr Cs former Prudential pension appears to have been a reasonable 
fit with his assessed appetite for risk, invested in funds with a volatility rating somewhat 
lower than the FTSE 100 index. 
I think the assessment Attanta conducted of Mr Cs risk appetite was a reasonable starting 
point. Mr C wasnt a novice in investment matters. Mr C wanted his pension funds to work 
hard and to achieve capital growth. And he had over 10 years until his planned retirement 
age.
The RS Real Assets Balanced Portfolio factsheet shows a 42.8% weighting towards 
property, 11.9% was equity related with the remainder being invested in alternative assets, 
other real assets, fixed income and cash. It shows a tolerance to volatility of 4 on a scale of 
1-7. The time horizon for the investment was around 5 to 7 years and the loss capacity was 
indicated as somewhere between low and medium. Attanta Limited judged this investment to 
be consistent with Mr Cs balanced attitude to risk.
Taken in isolation, the investment recommendation made by Attanta appears to be a 
reasonable fit for Mr Cs risk outlook. But it needed to look more deeply and broadly.
The suitability report states that Mr C had previously invested in a range of products and had 
taken an active interest in following investment markets and reviewing his financial plans. Mr 
C says he had no investments outside of his pensions. The fact-find shows most of his available funds were in a bank account. His wife had £6,000 in a PEP or an ISA. The fact-
find also shows a combined total of other investments to the value of £14,000.
Given the available evidence, I think it somewhat overstates the case to say Mr C was an 
experienced investor or knowledgeable about pensions. Of course, thats why he sought 
professional advice from Attanta.
Turning to Mr Cs capacity for loss. The suitability report records he confirmed his financial 
position was such that any loss of capital would not impact on his standard of living or his 
objectives. He had sufficient resources in place that he could use for current everyday 
needs, and he was taking a long term view on retirement planning.
Mr C had less than £400,000 in pension provision at the time of the advice. He was also in 
the process of enrolling in his employers workplace scheme. Given his objective was to 
maintain his current lifestyle in retirement, his capacity for loss was infact limited. As the 
Investigator noted, he mayve had sufficient resources for current everyday needs, however 
access to a pension income was not a current need and it was misleading to suggest he had 
sufficient capacity for loss on this basis. 
The recommended transfer equated to more than 25% of Mr Cs overall pension wealth. His 
other personal pension with Guinness Mahon was also heavily reliant on property assets. 
This meant, he had a lot of eggs in one asset basket. Theres a potential lack of 
diversification across his pension provision Attanta shouldve been alert to and managed. Mr 
Cs capacity for loss shouldve been explained and explored on this basis, and in the context 
of his other modest available assets.
Unfortunately, Attanta didnt provide an analysis of what level of income Mr C wanted in 
retirement, and how much his pensions would provide of that. And it didnt help him 
understand the balance between the investment risk he was taking and the fulfilment of his 
retirement provision, which he might have had to live off for up to 30 years.
Ongoing fund management
Mr C was said to have required active management of his pension. Id note his Prudential 
investments were in four managed funds. Its not clear he wouldve appreciated this from 
the suitability report Attanta provided. Nor that he couldve chosen up from around 40 
funds. Ive already noted the relatively good performance of his investments.
The DFM arrangement was introduced by Attanta. There was a duty of care on it to make 
sure the firm it was recommending was appropriate for him. But its not clear to me he 
wouldve had a clear idea about the added value being provided by RS and Attanta 
respectively. Yet he was paying a lot of money for both services.
A key element of Attantas recommendation for Mr C to switch his personal pension into 
the PY SIPP appears to have been the expectation the DFM investment portfolio would 
perform better than his existing plan. But that flies in the face of what we know about the 
targeted yield from the RS portfolio he was placed in compared with the performance of 
his former personal pension.
Mr C had limited investment experience, but he wasnt a sophisticated investor. His 
Prudential plan was modest at less than £100,000. Attanta hasnt done enough to 
demonstrate the recommendations it made to Mr C to establish a SIPP, with a DFM facility, 
investing in vehicles he had limited experience of, which also required its ongoing advice 
service, was suitable.The arrangements Attanta put in place were over-engineered, complicated, relatively 
expensive and it wasnt clear they were reasonably likely to be able to produce a better 
return than his personal pension.
In responding to the Investigators views Attanta noted the role of both RS and PY in what 
happened to Mr C. It says he should pursue those organisations for their failings. And that 
he could do so via the FSCS.
Where a firm concludes that it may be jointly liable along with another firm for the 
investors loss then generally the firm that gave the first advice should review the whole 
period (including the period after the other firm became involved) and then seek to obtain 
redress from the other entity, as appropriate. But where a firm believes the causal link 
between the advice it gave and any ongoing loss has been broken, then the first firm may 
need only consider the period up to the second advice.
Ive already highlighted some failings in the approach Attanta took with Mr C given his 
circumstances and objectives. These are around the basic rationale for switching, 
charging, the prospect of Mr C being better off as a result of its recommendations, its 
approach to risk assessment and the fund management arrangements.
Given Attantas role which has seen Mr C switch his personal pension into a SIPP with his 
funds being invested through a DFM in funds that were said to be a match for his risk 
appetite, which Ive found to be unsuitable for several reasons, its fair and reasonable for it 
to provide compensation for any losses arising in this case.
Of course, it is a matter for Attanta if it wishes to pursue RS and PY for any acts and 
omissions which it believes gave rise to any element of the redress costs it now faces.
Putting things right
Mr C cant benefit from double recovery of losses and compensation in respect of 
substantively the same case. As such, if he accepts this decision, hell need to give an 
undertaking to assign any rights he has to take action against RS and PY and any 
associated redress, including from the FSCS, over to Attanta.
Im upholding Mr Cs case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been 
in now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I 
hold Attanta Limited responsible for.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think fair compensation should be calculated 
as set out below. My decision is Attanta Limited should pay Mr C the amount produced by 
that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Attanta Limited pays Mr C the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Attanta Limited doesnt have 
to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr C can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.
If Attanta had provided suitable advice, I dont think Mr C wouldve switched his Prudential 
personal pension into a PY SIPP. It follows that I dont think hed have taken on an RS 
investment portfolio. 
So, Attanta Limited needs to provide redress as follows.
1. Calculate a notional loss Mr C has suffered as a result of making the switch of his 
personal pension
In respect of Mr Cs former Prudential pension, Attanta should obtain its notional value as 
at the date of calculation. So, as if it hadnt been transferred to the PY SIPP. It will need to 
obtain the value of the plan as previously invested.
Attanta should then find the current (actual) value of his PY SIPP, including investments 
and any cash held. Concerning the valuation here  the approach to be taken is set out 
in step 2.
Im not aware if Mr C made further contributions to his PY SIPP. Nor whether hes taken 
any benefits from it. After confirming the detailed position, then the value Attanta obtains or 
the calculations it makes should assume these adjustments would still have occurred and 
on the same dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mr 
Cs former personal pensions and the current value of his SIPP will be his basic 
financial loss that Attanta needs to redress.
2.Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed
To close Mr Cs SIPP and avoid ongoing fees, the investments need to be crystallised.
If, at the date of settlement, any residual investment is illiquid (meaning it cant be readily 
sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, 
the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Attanta should 
take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance 
paid as above.
If Attanta is unable to purchase the residual investment the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. It may wish to require Mr C provides an 
undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. This 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. Attanta will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Had Attanta done what it ought to have done then there wouldnt have been a PY SIPP. 
So, it wouldnt be fair if Mr C continued to have to pay SIPP fees because of illiquid 
holdings preventing it from being closed. Ideally, Attanta would take over any illiquid 
holdings, thus allowing the SIPP to be closed. But third parties are involved, and I cant 
tell them what to do.
So, to give certainty to all parties, if there are illiquid holdings and Attanta is unable to buy 
them from the SIPP, then its fair that it should pay Mr C an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This gives a reasonable 
period to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
3. Pay an amount into Mr Cs pension pot so the value is increased by the loss 
calculated (resulting from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally 
adjusted for tax.
If compensation is paid into Mr Cs SIPP, payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief, so that he is in the same position as if hed stayed in his original 
personal pension scheme.
If paying compensation into Mr Cs SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and Attanta takes on his investments, then it should 
pay his compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to 
allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional deduction should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if hes likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at 
the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if he wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Attanta Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which this 
Service informs it that Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment 
at 8% a year simple.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Attanta considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should tell Mr C how much has been 
taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Attanta Limited should also pay Mr C £250 for the stress and aggravation caused by 
persistently having to engage with a number of parties in order to attempt to resolve his 
concerns around the loss of his pension entitlement.
Attanta Limited should provide the details of the calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Further information
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by typing compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our 
website: www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Attanta Limited must 
now put things right in the way Ive outlined. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022. 
Kevin WilliamsonOmbudsman