DRN-2875647
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the handling of a claim under a home emergency insurance policy 
with Aviva Insurance Limited. Aviva use agents to handle complaints on its behalf. But as 
Aviva is responsible for the policy, I will refer to it throughout this decision.   
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in March 2021, part of which is copied below: 
The policy Mr C has covers a property that he lets out. In March 2020, Mr C made a claim 
as his tenant told him the downstairs toilet in the property was blocked. Aviva sent a 
contractor out who replaced some parts in the cistern and also raised the cistern. A problem 
was then reported with the upstairs toilet and a contractor went back out. He said there was 
a problem with scale, so applied some scale remover and left it to work for 12 hours. He 
apparently said if this didnt work then a new toilet might be needed. The tenant reported that 
this had not worked and so another visit took place on 25 March 2020 with a plumber and 
drainage engineer, who I understand removed the toilet to clear a blockage and replaced the 
pan connector. Aviva says they reinstated the toilet. 
The tenant then contacted Aviva again on 3 April 2020 to say there was still a blockage. A 
plumber and drainage engineer attended a few times after this, used a camera to investigate 
and removed the toilet again but could not find a blockage. There was a final visit on 14 April 
2020 during which again no blockage could be found and Avivas contractor said the 
problem was a build-up of limescale in the pipework. 
Mr C says he asked that the contractors call him before entering the property but they didnt 
and his toilet was removed without permission, causing damage to the toilet housing and 
floor in the bathroom. Mr C says if the contractor had called him, he would not have needed 
to remove the toilet and he would have told him where the manhole was so he could use this 
to rod the pipework. He made around 14 phone calls about this but didnt get a response 
until May 2020. 
Mr C also disputes that limescale is the cause of any issues, as the toilets had been cleaned 
and no limescale was found not long before this and his own contractor didnt find any 
limescale. His contractor rectified the issues with the toilet and damage at a cost of £145, 
which he wants Aviva to reimburse. Mr C says the toilet housing unit still needs to be 
replaced and this will cost around £1,000. Mr C also says the toilet has been working 
properly since then, which means Aviva was wrong about there being a limescale problem. 
Aviva says that it would not normally call the policyholder before attending such a call out. It 
requires an adult to be present during any attendance and the tenant was there and gave 
permission for the toilet to be removed. However, Aviva acknowledged that it didnt respond 
to Mr C and couldve done more. It offered £15 compensation for not returning his calls. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld, as he thought Aviva had done all it could to find the cause of the problems with the 
toilets and rectify them. He said replacing toilets which are damaged by limescale isnt 
covered by the policy and even if there was no limescale in February 2020 (when Mr C had 
them cleaned) it doesnt mean there was none at the time of the claim. The investigator also 
said the independent plumber didnt provide any report to say limescale was not the 
problem. He said that if Mr C could provide a report to confirm this, Aviva would reconsider 
the matter. The investigator also said that it is likely removing the silicone sealant around the 
toilet was necessary for repair on the first occasion, as the reports indicate the problem was 
temporarily rectified after this. Aviva used qualified contractors and had they not needed to 
remove the sealant for the repair, based on a balance of probability it seems unlikely they 
would do so. 
Mr C does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Was it necessary to remove the toilet? 
As the investigator said, it seems to me that any plumber and drainage contractor would 
know there would be a manhole giving access to the waste pipes on the property but they 
decided to access the pipes by taking the toilet out. Mr C is adamant this could have been 
avoided but I have not seen any convincing independent evidence to support that. In the 
absence of any such evidence (i.e. that the upstairs toilet could have been cleared and 
proper flushing restored without removing it) I cant conclude that this was not necessary and 
should and could have been avoided. 
Should the toilet have been removed without Mr Cs express permission? 
The policy says that access which could cause damage to surrounding areas of a home 
(such as tiles and flooring) might be necessary sometimes and that if it is, a disclaimer will 
be asked for. No disclaimer was signed by the tenant until after the toilet was removed. 
Aviva says that it didnt get a signature from her on the day due to Covid restrictions but that 
she did give consent. I am satisfied that the tenant could give authority on Mr Cs behalf. But 
even if this was not right, as there is no convincing evidence the issue with the upstairs toilet 
could and should have been dealt with without removing it, I am not persuaded that this lack 
of disclaimer would have meant the situation would have been any different. I say this 
because if it was necessary to remove the toilet to investigate and rectify the problem (and 
as stated, there is no convincing evidence to dispute this) then even if Mr C had been 
spoken to first, it is more likely than not that the toilet would still have been removed. 
Should Aviva have made good the silicon around the toilet and the toilet housing? 
While it seems to me more likely than not that the toilet would still have been removed, it 
does seem to me unreasonable that Aviva left the toilet as it did. The toilet pipework was 
reconnected but from the photos provided, the toilet was not properly fixed back into place 
and it was left with a gap between the toilet and the housing without new silicon being 
applied. I can also see that a small area of the wood and/floor is chipped. The policy refers 
to temporary reinstatement of excavations for drains etc and the possibility of damage to 
tiles/flooring to gain access but doesn't say anything about what would happen if an area 
required making good after a repair such as happened in this case. I don't think it is 
reasonable to not make clear that it would not replace the silicone to position the toilet back 
properly and that a consumer would always have to get another contractor out to do this 
even after a claim is covered. Aviva says the silicon is purely cosmetic and so it would not 
apply new silicon. While I accept that the toilet is usable as it was left, I disagree that it is purely cosmetic as it helps to keep the toilet in place. I do not think it is reasonable to say the 
toilet has been reinstated, when the silicon has not been applied. 
Overall, I do not consider the policy is  clear enough about this and so I think Aviva should 
pay the £145 Mr C paid for this work, together with interest at our usual rate. 
Mr C has also said the entire toilet housing needs replacing at a potential cost of around 
£1,000. Ive not seen any evidence to support this and the photographs do not show any 
significant damage. Even if it were established that the housing needed to be replaced, I am 
not persuaded this would necessarily be covered, as this would fall more squarely within the 
policy exclusion for damage caused in order to gain access to carry out necessary repairs. 
However, if Mr C has any further evidence about this, I will consider it before issuing my final 
decision.
Limescale 
I can understand Mr Cs concern that the issue is being blamed on limescale, given the toilet 
was not that old and he had apparently specifically had it cleaned of any limescale not long 
before this claim. Ive also not seen any photos or other independent evidence to establish 
that this was the cause of any problems. However, I do not think this changes the outcome 
of the complaint. Mr C has not provided any detail of what his own plumber did to resolve the 
issue and restore proper flow. I am not persuaded there is enough evidence that this was a 
misdiagnosis by Aviva. 
Service provided and compensation 
Aviva acknowledges it didnt keep Mr C informed about the claim, as he had asked and he 
had to chase it up several times. Aviva offered £15 compensation for this. Overall, I consider 
a total sum of £100 (to include the £15 already offered) is appropriate, to reflect the fact Mr C 
had to arrange his own contractor to reinstall the toilet properly, the way this was left and the 
failure to communicate with Mr C. 
My provisional decision 
I intend to uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited and require it to do the 
following: 
 reimburse Mr C the cost of repairs of £145, together with interest at 8% simple per annum, 
from the date he paid for the repairs to the date of reimbursement; and 
 pay Mr C the sum of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of his claim (this is to include the £15 already offered, so if this has already been 
paid, Aviva now only needs to pay the balance of £85). 
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Aviva has confirmed it does not agree with my provisional decision. Aviva says again that it 
is not responsible for any costs, as the policy does not provide for making good after access 
has been made to deal with a claim; the silicone was for the unit at the back of the toilet and 
not required to securely fix the toilet back into place. Aviva also says that in any event, there 
is no invoice to confirm the work Mr C says he had done.Mr C has not responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has restated that the policy terms mean it did not have to replace the silicon around 
the toilet. In my provisional decision I explained why I do not think the policy is clear enough 
about what would happen in situations such as this. While the policy refers to temporary 
reinstatement of excavations for drains etc and the possibility of damage to tiles/flooring to 
gain access, it doesn't say anything about what would happen if an area required making 
good after a repair such as happened in this case. Aviva has not provided any new 
information or arguments about this point. I therefore remain of the opinion that it is 
unreasonable for Aviva to not make clear that it would not replace the silicon to position the 
toilet back properly, and that a consumer would always have to get another contractor out to 
do this even after a claim is covered. 
I also still consider that the silicon is not only cosmetic and do not think it is reasonable to 
say the toilet has been reinstated, when the silicon has not been applied. Given this, I also 
remain of the opinion that Aviva should reimburse Mr C for the cost of this and pay 
compensation. Mr C did write to Aviva on 1 June 2020, referring to having had this work 
done and says he had provided Aviva with the invoice for it. I have not seen an invoice for 
this work but I have no reason to doubt that Mr C had this work done and that this is what it 
cost him. This letter says the work had been done by 1 June 2020. So in the absence of any 
other evidence of the date this was paid for, it seems to me reasonable that the interest 
should be calculated from 1 June 2020, to the date of reimbursement. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited and require it to do the following: 
 reimburse Mr C the cost of repairs of £145, together with interest at 8% simple per annum, 
from 1 June 2020 to the date of reimbursement; and 
 pay Mr C the sum of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of his claim (this is to include the £15 already offered, so if this has already been 
paid, Aviva now only needs to pay the balance of £85). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman