DRN-3193357
The complaint
Miss S complains that Santander UK Plc acted in error when she tried to switch her account 
to another provider. She also complains that it discriminated against her. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Instead Ill summarise what happened and focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
- Miss S tried to switch her account from Santander to another provider on 8 July 
2021.
- The new provider contacted her on 14 July 2021 to let her know the switch hadnt 
completed and shed need to get back in touch with Santander.
- The switch hadnt completed as Miss S held a joint account with Santander but was 
trying to switch to a sole account with the new provider. Santander said it had notified 
the other provider of the reason for the rejection of the switch and said it was their 
responsibility to inform Miss S of this.
- Santander wrote to Miss S in a letter dated 2 August 2021 and said shed need to 
submit a new application with account details matching her existing account, or 
switch to a sole account with Santander before applying to switch again, or close her 
Santander account and open her new one manually. 
- Miss S said shed been given conflicting information about what she needed to do, 
and that Santander had ultimately made up a rule requiring both account holders to 
provide original ID in branch. She said that, despite both account holders providing 
ID, Santander wouldnt allow the change to a sole account. 
- Miss S told us that on 9 August 2021, a branch manager had shouted at her and 
discriminated against her and refused to accept her application. She said that she 
had reason to believe the customer before her hadnt had to follow the same 
process. Santander provided an alternative version of events for the branch visit on 9 
August. It said she had been very agitated and angry, refusing to provide ID. 
- Miss S believes there should be a clear written process for how to change from a 
joint account to a sole account. She feels Santander kept changing the process, 
showed her a privacy notice instead of its policy, wrongly asked for original ID 
documents when they already held copies on file, and humiliated her. She would like 
compensation for harassment and discrimination.
- System notes show that the account was changed from a joint to a sole account on 
19 August 2021, and that Santander offered £100 for any inconvenience suffered in 
not being able to change her account sooner, though it doesnt believe there was any 
error or discrimination.
- Our investigator considered this complaint. He didnt think Santander acted unfairly 
by not proceeding with the switch, or that it was Santanders responsibility to notify 
Miss S of the reason the switch didnt work. He also didnt think it was incorrect or 
unusual to expect both parties to provide ID. He didnt feel there was enough 
information to fairly say that Santander did something wrong during the branch visit. 
And he wasnt provided with enough evidence to suggest Miss S had been treated 
differently to other customers. So, he felt that £100 was a fair reflection for the delays 
in changing the account and for any incorrect information Miss S was given. 
- Miss S disagreed. She expressed that her complaint was purely about being 
discriminated against by way of Santander making up rules that only applied to her, 
refusing to accept ID that had already been provided and insisting on additional 
branch visits to provide ID, rather than allowing copies via WhatsApp or email. She 
strongly believes this is unfair treatment and an unreasonable request. And she 
reiterated that she wasnt shown a written process for changing her account, instead 
being shown the privacy notice.
- So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal 
processes or how they operate generally - thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. So, it isnt for me to say that Santander should have a written policy about 
changing accounts from joint to sole, or about the way ID should be presented. 
While there appears to be some written information online about changing the 
account, and reference to the ID that would need to be provided, I cant see that 
Santander has made it clear how it must be presented and who must provide it. But 
Santander offered £100 to compensate for the delays in changing the account over 
and for any incorrect information. I think this is a fair reflection of any unclear 
information or miscommunication. 
Miss S has indicated that it doesnt form part of her complaint but, for completeness, 
Id note that there wasnt an error here in the switch not taking place. The process of 
switching requires the account details to match, which they didnt in this case as the 
account was changing from joint to sole. 
Miss S has raised that shes been discriminated against. Shes said that she was 
asked to provide ID twice whereas all other Santander customers are only required to 
provide it once. And she said she was singled out to provide ID in person whereas 
others have the option to send it via post as well. As there isnt a full written process, 
I cant safely say that Santander asked Miss S to do more than other customers 
would have been required to. Its unclear why it was necessary for ID to be provided 
more than once. But it seems more likely than not that this was due to a breakdown 
in communication and human error, rather than a deliberate attempt to treat Miss S 
differently or unfairly. And Santander has acknowledged the process wasnt as 
straightforward as it should have been by compensating £100.
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to have asked the joint 
account holder to provide their own ID. I say this because its important the person 
being removed was fully aware of this, given that they would no longer have access 
to the account or any joint savings, if applicable. 
For the reasons given above, I cant safely say that Santander acted in error or that it asked 
more of Miss S than it would have asked of other customers. But it has offered £100 for the 
delays and any misinformation and Im satisfied this sufficiently reflects the situation. My final decision
For the reasons give above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman