DRN-3860941
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs S have complained about the way in which ERGO Versicherung 
Aktiengesellschaft (ERGO) dealt with a claim on their property insurance policy after their 
home was extensively damaged by fire - and about ERGO refusing to renew the policy while 
repair work was ongoing. 
What happened
In summer 2020, Mr As and Mrs Ss neighbour was working in their loft.  While he was 
doing this, an electrical fault ignited a fire which spread from their property to Mr As and Mrs 
Ss home.  Both properties suffered extensive damage as a result of the fire and from the 
water used to extinguish it.
Mr A and Mrs S appointed their own loss assessor and submitted a claim to ERGO for the 
costs of rebuilding and for contents that had been damaged or destroyed.  And they claimed 
for the cost of alternative accommodation while they couldnt live at home. 
The rebuilding work was put out to tender before a contractor was employed.  Mr A and   
Mrs S took the opportunity to ask for remodelling work, over and above reinstatement of their 
property, to be included  which they paid for themselves.
About two months after the fire, Mr As and Mrs Ss policy became due for renewal.  But they 
were told by their broker that, because of the ongoing claim, ERGO wouldnt renew the 
policy.  They made enquiries but couldnt find alternative cover.  They spoke to their loss 
assessor, who contacted ERGOs loss adjuster to see what could be done.  
As a result, their broker offered them three months cover, which they told Mr A and Mrs S 
could be extended for three months at a time for as long as needed.  But, when they tried to 
extend the cover, their brokers told Mr A and Mrs S that no further extensions could be 
offered.  So their property was uninsured.
By this time, building work had started.  Mr A and Mrs S were told the contractors had cover 
for their work onsite.  But Mr A and Mrs S were concerned there was no cover for hazards 
such as fire.  So they complained to ERGO.
In response, ERGO explained that they hadnt decided not to extend cover.  But the 
agreement they had with the agents whod underwritten the cover had ended.  So it had 
been impossible for them to extend it any further.
A short time after ERGOs response, Mr A and Mrs S made a number of additional 
complaints about the way the claim had been handled.  They complained about the level of 
the settlement of their contents claim, delays in processing payments, that ERGO didnt 
include all costs Mr A and Mrs S felt were part of their claim and that further damage was 
caused by the contractors scaffolding, which ERGO didnt cover.
ERGO replied and explained that all claims are validated before they are settled.  And this 
was done at each stage of the claim in line with the scope of works and policy terms.  But 
they accepted there had been some small delays in the process, including reimbursing costs 
Mr A and Mrs S had paid.  They offered Mr A and Mrs S £350 compensation for these.  Mr A 
and Mrs S didnt accept and asked our service to look into their complaints.
Our investigator did so, and concluded ERGO needed to more to resolve them.  She was 
satisfied that ERGO had extended the policy when they could, and that theyd not done so 
again because they couldnt  rather than choosing not to.  And she said ERGOs decisions 
relating to the settlement of the contents claim, losses not covered and scaffolding damage 
were reasonable.  
But the investigator felt that the sum offered for delays wasnt enough to compensate Mr A 
and Mrs S.  She said £500 (including the £350 ERGO had previously offered) was a fairer 
reflection of the impact the delays had had on them.
Mr A and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr As and Mrs Ss complaint.  But Im not asking ERGO to 
do any more to resolve it than our investigator said they should.  I know theyll be 
disappointed by my decision.  Ill explain why Ive made it.
Mr A and Mrs S sent the investigator a large number of documents in response to her view 
which they say support the assertions theyve made about five complaints.  Ive studied 
these documents.  They refer to many issues throughout the claim.  But they dont suggest 
the five elements identified by the investigator are wrong.  So thats what Ive based my 
decision on.
Renewal of the policy 
Ive thought first about what Mr A and Mrs S have said about not being able to get alternative 
cover.  I understand this would have been worrying for them, particularly in circumstances 
where they were pursuing a significant claim as a result of a risk against which people 
usually insure.
My starting point is that theres no obligation on an insurer to provide cover.  But it is the 
case that an ongoing claim makes it more difficult for someone to find cover.  So I think it 
was reasonable to expect a certain level of cover would be provided.
But Im satisfied ERGO provided that cover for as long as they could.  ERGO have explained 
that their agreements with their underwriters ended  so it wasnt possible for them to 
provide cover for any longer.  Its unreasonable for me to say they should have entered new 
underwriting agreements to provide cover.  So I cant say they should have done any more.
And, while I acknowledge it was a worry, Mr A and Mrs S didnt have cause to make a claim 
during this period.  So I cant say they were disadvantaged by having no insurance in place.
Claim handling
In terms of their handling of the claim, ERGO had a duty to deal with that promptly, fairly and 
in line with the policy terms.  That means they dont have to cover every eventuality  only 
those covered by the policy.  And theyre entitled to verify the claims made before settling 
them.Settlement of contents claim
Mr A and Mrs S have complained that their contents claim was settled for less than they 
thought it should be.  At the time they claimed, the sum insured for contents was £54,236.  
An excess of £100 applied.  So the maximum settlement they could have received was 
£54,136.  ERGO settled the contents claim for £48,305.17 (net of the excess).
ERGO have said that Mr As and Mrs Ss claim exceeded the sum insured.  ERGO valued 
the contents at around £22,000-£23,000.   
Two claims conditions contained in the policy are relevant here.  They say:
6. You must provide us with evidence of value or age (or both) for all items involved in a 
claim. It is your responsibility to prove any loss therefore we recommend that you 
keep receipts, valuations, photographs, instruction booklets and guarantee cards to 
help with your claim.
9. To help prove your claim we will require you to provide original purchase receipts, 
invoices, bank or credit card statements, instruction booklets, photographs, utility 
bills, pre-purchase surveys or plans and deeds of your property.
I think these make clear that its for the policyholder to provide evidence that items have 
been lost and how much those items are worth, and that they wont just pay the sum insured.  
ERGO have said they only received invoices for replacing contents of about £10,000.  
I appreciate it would have been difficult to supply evidence, given the circumstances of the 
claim.  So I think it was fair for ERGO to have paid more than that.  But theyve shown that 
Mr A and Mrs S received payments totalling £30,290, as well as £4,145 for carpets, and 
restoration of two expensive items which were salvaged, at a total of £4,200.  
This is well in excess of ERGOs valuation of the claim.  The evidence Mr A and Mrs S have 
supplied hasnt shown me this was clearly deficient.  So Im satisfied ERGOs handling of 
this part of the claim was fair.
Delays
As Ive mentioned above, insurers have a duty to deal with claims promptly.  But that doesnt 
mean theyre necessarily responsible for all the delays that occur during a claim  or that 
they have to settle some or all of it without reasonable verification.
This was a complex matter with many different parties involved.  And I have to take into 
account that the project didnt just involve reinstating the house to its former state, because 
Mr A and Mrs S took the opportunity to make modifications.  
They were entitled to do that.  But it did increase the overall amount of work which was 
required.  And, from the documents theyve sent me, I can see some of the pressure for 
funds was due to Mr A and Mrs S needing to pay for these additional works.  I cant say 
ERGO should be responsible for that.
But I have noted that ERGO accept there were some delays in the claim.  And I agree with 
our investigator that Mr A and Mrs S should be compensated for those.  Ill address that in 
the Putting things right section below.
Costs not included in the claimMr A and Mrs S also complained theyd received no payment for additional travel and 
laundry costs theyd incurred as a result of having to move into their last alternative 
accommodation (a caravan).
Ive thought carefully about this.  I understand the logic behind Mr A and Mrs S believing 
they could claim for this.  But  as our investigator explained  the policy doesnt cover every 
eventuality.  It covers loss or damage directly caused by the fire.  And it provides for the cost 
of alternative accommodation while Mr As and Mrs Ss home was unhabitable.  I dont think 
these costs fall within either of these categories.  So I dont think its fair for me to say ERGO 
should reimburse them.
Scaffolding damage 
Mr A and Mrs S wanted to include a claim for damage caused by the erection of scaffolding 
to their decking and damage to slabs.  ERGO have said that this was caused by contractors 
appointed by Mr As and Mrs Ss loss assessor.  And that the decking had been in a poor 
condition before the fire.
I can only say ERGO are responsible for the work of their contractors.  In this case, the 
contractors who caused the damage were appointed by Mr As and Mrs Ss agents.  So I 
cant say ERGO were responsible for their work  or lack of care.
Im pleased to see that ERGO contributed £2,000 towards rectifying these issues.  But I cant 
say they should do any more.  
Putting things right
As Im satisfied there were delays in dealing with payments in the claim, Ive thought about 
whether the £350 ERGO offered in respect of these was reasonable to compensate Mr A 
and Mrs S for the impact those delays had on them.
Ive explained that ERGO were entitled to verify payment requests before they were made.  
So its inevitable that they wont be made immediately theyre requested  particularly as, in 
this case, each request was relayed through several parties.  And I cant say ERGO should 
compensate Mr A and Mrs S for not being able to make payments theyd committed to in 
expectation of a settlement payment being received.
But I do think they were impacted by delays in authorising payments for alternative 
accommodation when they had to vacate their first alternative.  That would be worrying for 
anyone  and its clear from what Ive seen that Mr A and Mrs S were very worried about the 
prospect of having nowhere to live  so resorted to borrowing money from relatives that 
should have been available under the alternative accommodation sections of their policy.
ERGO havent made clear exactly what delays they offered £350 compensation for.  But I 
think they should compensate Mr A and Mrs S for this.  I agree with our investigator that 
£500 is a fair amount for what has happened.  And its consistent with the guidance 
published on our website that an award at this level, which says it reflects:
considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and disruption 
that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. Typically, the impact lasts over many weeks or 
months.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr As and Mrs Ss complaint about ERGO 
Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft and directing ERGO to pay them £500 compensation (inclusive of the £350 previously offered) for the distress and inconvenience theyve been 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 January 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman