DRN-2175468
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
a used car was supplied to Mr M under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance that he electronically signed in September 2018;
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality at that time - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality 
will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the 
price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr M was more than nine years old, had been driven for 
118,600 miles and had a price of £5,000;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Mr M complained to the dealer and to MotoNovo Finance about issues with the car in 
October 2018  and hes provided photos showing the fault codes that were 
generated; 
MotoNovo Finance acknowledged his complaint in October 2018 and said that it was 
investigating the matter  but Ive seen no evidence to show that it properly 
responded to his complaint;
he continued to have issues with the car and he says that there were ongoing 
discussions with the dealer  but no repairs were made;
the car failed an MOT test in July 2019 because of an oil leak from the transmission 
and an engine management warning light but those issues were repaired and the car 
passed the MOT test later that month when its mileage was recorded as 122,591;
Mr M says that the issues with the car continued so he stopped using it and made a 
statutory off-road notification about the car later in July 2019  and hes provided a 
quote for repairs to the car, some of which refer to the same faults that were 
identified in October 2018, of £3,890 plus VAT;
Mr M complained again to MotoNovo Finance and then to this service;
our investigator was adequately convinced that the car had several problems that 
were present and/or developing at the point of sale so it shouldve been either 
repaired or rejected  and he recommended that MotoNovo Finance should: end the 
agreement; amend Mr Ms credit file; refund all payments made by Mr M since the 
MOT failure, with interest; refund him for the following costs: solenoid pack and 
replacement - £182.10 and £368.40, accelerator pedal - £65.99 and automatic 
transmission filter  £31.90; and pay him £200 compensation;
MotoNovo Finance hasnt responded to the investigators recommendation but I 
consider it to be more likely than not, on the basis of the evidence that Ive seen, that 
there were faults with the car soon after it was supplied to Mr M and that it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at that time because of those faults;
Mr M complained to the dealer and to MotoNovo Finance about the faults but no 
repairs were made and he says that he stopped using the car in July 2019 when he 
made the statutory off-road notification; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mr M to be able 
to reject the car and for MotoNovo Finance to take the actions described below.
Putting things right
I find that MotoNovo Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the 
car to be collected  both at no cost to Mr M. I find that it should also remove any information 
about the agreement that its recorded on Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M was able to use the car to drive about 4,000 miles between September 2018, when it 
was supplied to him, and July 2019, when it failed the MOT test. I find that it would be fair 
and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to refund to Mr M the monthly payments that hes 
made under the agreement since then, with interest, but it can keep the payments that he 
made before then as payment for the use that hes had from the car. 
Our investigator recommended that MotoNovo Finance should reimburse Mr M for repair 
costs totalling £648.39. I consider that to be fair and reasonable and that it should pay 
interest on those amounts.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr M. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to pay him £200 to compensate him for 
that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I order FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as 
MotoNovo Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected  both 
at no cost to Mr M.
2. Refund to Mr M the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement since 
the car failed an MOT test in July 2019.
3. Pay £648.39 to Mr M to reimburse him for the repair costs that hes incurred.4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Ms credit file.
6. Pay £200 to Mr M to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that 
hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. MotoNovo Finance must give Mr M a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman