DRN-3175662
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that AWP P&C SA declined a claim they made on their travel
insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr and Mrs G booked, and paid a deposit for, a villa abroad for the period 9
and 16 April 2020.
They paid the balance due for the villa at the start of 2020. And around the same time, at the
end of January 2020, Mr and Mrs G took out a premier, single-trip travel insurance policy -
covering Europe - underwritten by AWP P&C SA (the policy).
The policy covered the period 9 and 16 April 2020; the dates of their trip. Mr and Mrs G 
cancelled the trip on 19 March 2020 as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential international
travel on 17 March 2020, which initially was said to be for 30 days. That guidance was in
place at the time Mr and Mrs G cancelled their and was still in place when they were due to
travel abroad on 9 April 2020.
Mr and Mrs G made a claim on the policy to cover the irrecoverable cost of the villa theyd
booked and paid for (approximately £4,300).
AWP declined the claim because the reason which led to the trip being cancelled wasnt
covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. It said the cancellation section of the
policy listed specific reasons for which AWP would provide cover, and the circumstances
surrounding Mr and Mrs Gs claim didnt fall within those reasons.
Mr and Mrs G didnt think that was fair, so complained to our Service.
Our investigator upheld their complaint. Although, the trip was cancelled for a reason not
listed in the cancellation section of the policy terms, there was also an exclusion in the policy
limiting cover if theyd travelled against the advice of the FCO. So, our investigator didnt
think it was fair and reasonable for AWP to decline the claim for the reason it did. He
concluded that it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to treat the claim as covered under
the cancellation section of the policy. And he recommended AWP pay the claim.
AWP didnt agree. It didnt dispute that, given the FCOs advice, Mr and Mrs G were right to
cancel their trip. However, it didnt accept that the exclusion in the policy limiting cover if Mr
and Mrs G had travelled against the advice of the FCO had any bearing on the insured risks
provided for under the cancellation section of the policy.
So, Mr and Mrs Gs complaint was passed to me to look at everything afresh to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 8 November 2021 explaining why I was also intending to
uphold this complaint. An extract of which appears below:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for
Business) say a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to:
-act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
customer;
-handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an
informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
Appropriate information includes the information that must be set out in an Insurance
Product Information Document (IPID) which gives customers an at a glance summary of
their cover. This includes a summary of the insurance cover, including the main risks
insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, the geographical scope and summary of
excluded risks.
Relevant regulatory guidance (the FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors
for the Fair Treatment of Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions 
or inactions  on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID):
The IPID says at the top of page 1 that:
This document is a summary of what this insurance does and doesnt cover.
Complete individual pre-contractual and contractual information is provided in your
policy documentation. You are responsible for reviewing full policy terms and
conditions.
Under the heading What is insured? the IPID says:
Cancellation, curtailment and trip interruption - Up to £5,000 in total for loss of 
prepaid travel and accommodation expenses.
And, under the heading, what is not insured on page 1 of the IPID it says:
Travel against Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice.
The policy terms and conditions:
At page 7 of the policy terms and conditions, and subject to the remaining terms of the
policy, AWP sets out that it will pay a claim, if a trip in cancelled as a result of the following:
- the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close relative
             or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
- you being called for jury service or as a witness in a court of law (but not as an 
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend 
court); or- your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of
employment for a minimum of 2 continuous years and that you were not aware of any
impending redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
- your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding 
or fire; the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary 
at your home; or
- your passport, or the passport of any person you were intending to travel with, 
being stolen during the 7 days before the start date of your booked trip; or
- you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee
being ordered to return to duty.
The general exclusions are set out at page 13 of the policy terms and conditions. It says at
clause 16 that AWP wont pay any claim directly or indirectly caused by:
your travel to a country or specific area or event which the travel advice unit of the
Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised
against all, or all but essential travel
Ill refer to this as the FCO exclusion.
On page 6 of the policy under the heading: geographical location, the policy terms and
conditions also say:
Please note:
No cover is provided for trips where you have travelled to a specific country
or to an area where, prior to your trip commencing, the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office have advised against all (but essential) travel.
Was it unreasonable for AWP to decline the claim?
I think its fair and reasonable for AWP to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation
section of the policy in this particular case because:
Mr and Mrs Gs trip was effectively cancelled because of the global impact of the
Covid-19 pandemic. Thats not something that is covered under the terms and 
conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. However, taking 
into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair 
and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go onto 
explain.
If Mr and Mrs G had travelled abroad they wouldnt have followed FCO advice. And 
because of the FCO exclusion they wouldnt have been covered by the policy terms 
and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, changes in FCO 
guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently 
clear to Mr and Mrs G in this case and I think that is a relevant consideration here.
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about 
the policy in a way thats easy to understand. And the IPID does say the policy 
doesnt insure travel against FCO advice.
Mr and Mrs G wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that this 
information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I dont think the combined effect of the exclusion within the IPID and policy terms was 
made sufficiently clear.
Mr and Mrs G wouldve needed to go further into the detail of the policy wording to 
establish whether they were able to claim if they had to cancel their trip because of 
changes to FCO guidance after theyd bought their policy. And even when they 
reached page 7 of the policys terms and conditions - which sets out the available 
cover if their trip is cancelled  a claim arising from a change in FCO advice isnt 
specifically listed as an exclusion. Instead, this section is silent on whether this is 
something which is covered under the cancellation section of the policy.
The section of the policy explaining what will be covered if theyre unable to travel, on 
page 7, is in plain English. But the FCO exclusion isnt presented in the same place 
or specifically mentioned in the cancellation exclusions  although the general 
exclusions are referred to. But the general exclusions are at the end of the policy, at 
page 13. The consumer would need to cross refer these sections of the policy  
along with the geographical information on page 6 of the policy - to comprehend how 
these terms all interrelated to one another. And to understand the effect of the FCO 
exclusion.
Overall, I dont think it would be obvious to a consumer that there would be no cover 
under the policy if FCO advice changed in respect of their destination after they 
purchased their policy. And even with a cooling-off period, I think a consumer might 
not be able to easily understand the full effect of the policy. I think the way in which 
the cancellation section of cover, the geographical information and the FCO 
exclusion are presently separately under different sections of the policy means their 
combined effect isnt clear in this case.
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr and 
Mrs G and AWP, shifting the rights and obligations under the policy significantly in 
AWPs favour. I think its unlikely they wouldve purchased the policy if Mr and Mrs G 
realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCO guidance changed after 
theyd bought the policy.
When making this finding, I accept that its not practical for the terms and conditions of a
policy  or an IPID  to list every possible insured peril and/or every possible exclusion. Ive
also considered that its common for the cancellation section of travel insurance policies to
list the specific insured perils that are covered. However, the issue Im considering in this
case is whether the specific exclusion from cover of cancellation claims arising from a
change in FCO travel advice was clearly sign-posted to Mr and Mrs G in this particular case
based on the policy documentation. And, for the reasons set out above, I dont think it was.
Ive also taken into account that theres an exclusion set on in the cancellation section of the
policy (on page 7) which says AWP wont cover any claims arising from: prohibitive
regulations by the government of any country.
However, I dont think this exclusion is relevant here. Im satisfied that as of 19 March 2020 
when Mr and Mrs G cancelled their trip  neither the UK Government nor the country theyd
intended to travel to on 9 April 2020 had issued any prohibitive regulations which led to the
cancellation of the trip. Im satisfied that the trip was cancelled in response to the FCO
advising against all but essential international travel for at least 30 days. As Mr and Mrs Gs
trip was due to take place within 30 days of that advice being issued, I can understand why
they chose to cancel it when they did. But Im not persuaded that the FCO advice issued on
17 March 2020 amounted to a prohibitive regulation issued by the UK Government. At thatstage, it was simply guidance which wasnt enforceable.
Response to my provisional decision
I gave the parties an opportunity to reply. AWP didnt respond and Mr and Mrs G didnt 
provide any substantive comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any new arguments or presented any new evidence theres no 
reason for me to reach a different conclusion to that which I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
So, for the reasons already set out in my provisional decision  an extract of which appears 
above - I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Putting things right
I direct AWP to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. AWP 
should assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy including 
(but not limited to) the financial limits of the policy and the applicable excess.
  
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint against AWP P&C SA and direct it to put things right in 
the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman