DRN-3709926
The complaint
Mr L is complaining about the service he received from Nationwide Building Society when he 
spoke to them about a making a fraud claim.
What happened
Mr L had disputed some payments on his account with Nationwide, which were being 
considered by their fraud team.
On 10 August 2022 Mr L contacted Nationwide by phone and asked to raise a fraud claim. 
He made this call shortly after speaking to a member of the fraud team, who had explained 
why his claim had been declined. During this call Mr L had sworn at the member of the fraud 
team, and had told him he would call Nationwide to raise the same fraud claim repeatedly, 
despite having already been given the answer.
The adviser told him his claim about the payments he had mentioned were already being 
considered by the fraud team, so couldnt be logged as a new issue. Mr L said hed already 
spoken to the fraud team who had told him his claim had been declined. The adviser said 
there was nothing further she could do if the transactions had already been considered by 
the fraud team.
Mr L told the adviser he wanted to speak to a manager. The adviser said, there wasnt a 
manager available to speak to him at that time and even if there was, they wouldnt be able 
to tell Mr L anything different. She offered to log a complaint for Mr L, but he continued to 
insist that he wanted to speak to a manager. He asked the adviser to log a complaint that 
hed asked to speak to a manager seven times, but shed refused.
The adviser logged a complaint during the call, but when Mr L continued to ask to speak to a 
manager, she said there was nothing more she could do, and ended the call.
Nationwide responded to Mr Ls complaint to say, they didnt feel the adviser had made an 
error in not transferring Mr L to a manager, and that they couldnt comment on what other 
businesses had done in similar situations. Mr L referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong. She said Mr L had 
already received an answer to his query, and given the reasons for his call she didnt think 
the adviser had been unreasonable in how she handled it. 
Mr L didnt agree. So his complaint has been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls complaint about the outcome of the fraud claim he made is being considered 
separately. So, my decision is only about the complaint hes raised about the customer 
service he received from Nationwide during this call of 10 August 2022.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but Im not upholding this complaint.
Ive listened to the call between Mr L and Nationwide and I dont think the adviser gave Mr L 
a poor service. Mr L had already been told why his claim had been declined in the earlier call 
with the fraud team. The adviser spoke to Mr L politely and correctly explained the situation 
around the fraud claim. She was reasonable in saying that as the claim had already been 
considered it couldnt be logged again. 
Mr L asked to speak to a manager about what the adviser had said, but the adviser 
explained that there wasnt a manager available - and if there was, they wouldnt give a 
different answer. I dont think the adviser acted unfairly or unreasonably in not referring Mr 
Ls call to a manager, even if there had been one available, because she had been able to 
answer his question during the call. I agree that it was unlikely a manager would be able to 
add anything to what had already been said.
Nationwides explained that they dont feel the adviser made an error by not transferring Mr L 
to a manager, and that their process may be different from other businesses in this respect. 
Ive not seen details of Nationwides process to say if this is the case or not, but I dont think 
this makes a difference. 
This is because, bearing in mind how the earlier conversations had gone, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the adviser to want to limit any further conversations between Nationwide 
and Mr L about this particular point, even if this wasnt Nationwides usual process.
Overall, I dont think Mr L received a poor service during this call, and I dont think he was 
treated unfairly by not being put through to a manager. So, I dont think Nationwide need to 
do anything else here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman