DRN-4055548
The complaint
Mr D complains Revolut Ltd (Revolut) blocked and then closed his account. He also 
complains Revolut sent an indemnity to his other bank, but erroneously told him it wasnt 
holding those funds. 
What happened
In October 2020, Revolut blocked Mr Ds account whilst it carried out a review. As part of its 
review, Revolut asked Mr D for information about the source of his funds, and for related 
evidence. 
Revolut say it then asked Mr D for more information in early December 2020, to which he 
responded. Later in December 2020, Revolut decided to close Mr Ds account with 
immediate effect. Mr D was given access to his account for a day, allowing him to remove 
his funds. 
Later in February 2022, Revolut received £1,780 through an indemnity sent to Mr Ds 
account with his third-party bank.
Unhappy with Revoluts actions, Mr D complained. Revolut didnt uphold his complaint, so 
Mr D referred it to this service. One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint. In 
summary they found: 
- Revolut had reviewed Mr Ds account in line with its obligations and terms of account. 
And Revolut isnt obliged to give any notice nor explanation whit reviewed and 
blocked the account 
- Revolut caused unnecessary delay with its review between 19 October 2020 and 
2 December 2020, when it asked for further information. Revolut acknowledged it 
had caused a delay, so it should pay Mr D £100 compensation 
- Revolut acted in line with its account terms when deciding to close Mr Ds account  
and it doesnt have to give him an explanation why it did so
- As Revolut has the discretion to choose its customers in the same way a consumer 
can choose who it does business with, it doesnt have to take Mr D back as its 
customer 
- Revolut had told Mr D that it had not recalled his funds from the third-party bank. But 
later Revolut told this service it was holding £1,780. Revolut had agreed to return 
these funds to Mr Ds nominated account 
- To put things right, Revolut should pay Mr D 8% interest on £1,780 from 
28 February 2020 up until theyre returned. It should also pay him £551 for having to 
take his external bank to court for funds he believed it was holding. And it should pay 
Mr D £200 inconvenience caused to Mr D  
Revolut accepted what our Investigator said. Mr D said he wouldnt send in any further 
representations until his funds were returned. After some time the funds were returned to 
Mr Ds nominated account. Mr D then made the following key points: 
- Revolut should provide Mr D with its explanation as to why it blocked and reviewed 
his account 
- Mr D had made a Data Access Subject Request to Revolut, and the information 
showed it had partly closed his account as it was unable to find an online profile for 
him, and because large sums of money had been paid through his account. He can 
provide responses to all of this 
- Revolut has stopped him using its products and systems unfairly. He has proven 
Revolut had non-existent proof that an indemnity claim was made, and they were 
unable to reply to any mitigations around clear evidence that he is a real person and 
had not misused the account 
- Revoluts actions caused him to lose his relationship with his third-party bank, 
especially as he had to take them to court due to the false claim it was not holding 
indemnified funds  
As Mr D did not agree, his complaint has now been passed to me  an Ombudsman - to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mr D and Revolut have said 
before reaching my decision. Its important to note, my decision focuses on Revoluts actions 
regarding Mr Ds current account.  
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from regulated financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for 
example, if it contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of 
the information Revolut has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
Account review, block and closure 
Financial businesses in the UK, like Revolut, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means Revolut 
needs to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, its customers accounts.
Ive looked at Revoluts reasons for carrying out its review and blocking Mr Ds account. And based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied it has acted in line with the obligations it has to follow 
by doing so. 
But I do agree that it couldve carried out its investigation more promptly by around two 
months. This wouldve have caused Mr D avoidable inconvenience and distress given he 
was regularly chasing Revolut. So Im persuaded Revolut should compensate him for this.
Revolut is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before it closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
Having looked at the information given to me by Revolut, Im satisfied it was entitled to close 
the account in the way that it has done  and that it was in line with the terms of the account. 
I note Mr D feels strongly about Revolut disclosing the exact reasons it acted in this way, 
and I can see that he has raised a data subject access request to help him understand this. 
I have already said that some of the information Revolut has provided is information we 
consider should be kept confidential  and that the rules we must follow allow us to do this. 
Id also add that I am not aware of any obligations that either I or Revolut are under to 
disclose this. So I will not be commenting on any of the reasons Mr D has put forward. 
Indemnified funds  
Revolut says it didnt tell Mr D that it had recalled funds from his external bank. But Ive seen 
two online chat logs between Mr D and Revolut which, in short, shows he was told it had not 
recalled any funds. 
Revolut later told this service it was holding onto £1,780 for which it had sent an indemnity to 
Mr Ds bank. Ive seen technical evidence which shows this money was sent to Revolut on 
28 February 2022. 
Revolut has not been able to show whether the funds it recalled related to Mr Ds personal 
account  which is the subject of this complaint  or one of his business accounts. Because 
of this our Investigator said he would treat it as part of his personal account. I think this is 
reasonable given the lack of evidence Revolut has about this. 
Revolut agreed to return these funds to Mr D, and as I understand it the funds have now 
been returned to his nominated account. But as Revolut havent been able to show enough 
reason as to why it took this action, Im satisfied Mr D was deprived of his funds and should 
be compensated for this loss. 
Mr D says he has incurred court costs for having to act against his third-party bank to 
recover funds he was erroneously told by Revolut it wasnt holding. Mr D has sent 
information which shows he had to pay £551 altogether in court fees. Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for Mr D to have taken these steps given what Revolut had told him. 
So because of that, Revolut should compensate Mr D by paying him £551. 
Mr D says Revoluts actions caused him to lose his relationship with his third-party bank, 
especially as he had to take them to court due to the false claim it was not holding 
indemnified funds. However, I cant know with any degree of probability why Mr Ds bank 
decided to end its relationship with Mr D. I also note Mr D had access at least two other bank 
accounts  so he hasnt lost access to banking facilities as a result.    
Lastly, and for the sake of completeness, as I dont think Revolut did anything wrong by closing Mr Ds account, I wont be asking it to re-open its account facilities to Mr D.    
For the delays in its investigation, and for the impact of Mr D relying on Revoluts position 
that it hadnt recalled the funds from his bank, Ill be awarding £300 compensation. This 
takes into account the distress and inconvenience Mr D has suffered in chasing Revolut 
about its investigation for longer than he ought to have, and for the impact of pursuing his 
bank for funds Revolut said it wasnt holding.    
Putting things right
To put things right. Revolut should: 
- Pay 8% simple interest on £1,780 from 22 February 2022 up until the funds were 
returned to Mr D if it hasnt already* 
- Pay Mr D £551 for the court fees hes incurred in taking action against his bank 
- Pay Mr D £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered in 
relation to Revoluts delay in carrying out its review, and for giving him erroneous 
information about the indemnified funds
*If Revolut considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. Revolut Ltd should now put things 
right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman