DRN-3284767
The complaint
Mr P complains that British Gas Services Limited mis-sold him his home emergency 
insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
again here, but Ive summarised events below.
 
In July 2021 Mr P had the annual service on his boiler. He was told by British Gas 
that the flue on the boiler didnt meet the requirements to be covered under its policy. 
Mr P says the boiler was inspected in 2015 when he first took out cover with      
British Gas but he wasnt told about any issues with the flue.
Mr P has said the boiler has been serviced every year and hes not had any issues 
before. 
Mr P also said that the term related to flues over one metre in length, but he felt his 
flue was less than one metre internally so didnt accept how British Gas could apply 
the term.
But because British Gas said the flue is excluded Mr P feels he was mis-sold the 
policy when he initially took it out. He says hes been paying for a service that doesnt 
meet his requirements. 
British Gas looked into his complaint but didnt agree as it felt the policy terms and 
conditions were clearly set out. And because the flue in total was over one metre this 
wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr P brought the complaint to this service  he maintained the policy had been mis-
sold as it didnt provide the cover he was expecting. Mr P said he hadnt been 
informed of the issues with the flue during the initial inspection and if he had been, he 
would have opted for a policy that met his needs. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She felt the policy terms were clear and 
didnt think the policy was mis-sold. She also didnt think that British Gas were 
unreasonable in refusing to cover the flue as it didnt meet the length requirements 
set out in the policy terms.  
Mr P didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mr P took out the policy in 2015, and it was renewed every year. Looking at the policy terms 
neither the initial terms nor the terms provided at each following renewal said that a boiler 
flue over one metre would be covered.  
Mr P has told us that he thinks the policy was mis-sold to him, and had he been told the flue 
wouldnt be covered he would have taken a policy more suitable for him. British Gas have 
said Mr P purchased the policy online in 2015 and have provided documents in support. So 
the sale of the policy wasnt an advised one. 
As this wasnt an advised or recommended sale British Gas didnt need to check if the policy 
was suitable for Mr P. It needed to provide Mr P with enough information so he could make 
an informed decision of whether the policy was suitable for him. Having looked at the policy 
documents the terms are clear and set out what is and isnt covered by the policy. The terms 
and conditions were provided with the initial sale and each renewal, so it was for Mr P to 
decide if the policy met his needs. For these reasons, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
Mr P said he should have been advised about the suitability of the policy at the initial visit, 
but I dont agree. I say this because the initial visit was for British Gas to see if his boiler and 
flue were fitted to gas safe standards and legislation and not to go through or advise on the 
cover hed taken out. 
I understand Mr Ps strength of feeling about this, and Im sure he was extremely frustrated 
when realising his flue wasnt covered. But I think it was fair for British Gas not to provide 
cover for something that was specifically excluded under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. And because I dont think the British Gas mis-sold the policy I dont think it has to 
refund any of Mr Ps premiums.   
Ive also thought about what Mr P has said about the flue being under one metre. He says 
the part of the flue inside the room is less than one metre and as the policy refers to a room 
sealed flue needing to be larger than one metre he feels it should be covered. I must 
explain here that the term room sealed is in reference to the type of flue and is not referring 
to the length of the flue inside his room. So when taking this into account British Gas needs 
to consider the full length of the room sealed flue not just the part that is visible inside the 
room. So I dont think British Gas have acted unreasonably here either. 
I realise Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, but because I dont think British Gas 
mis-sold him the policy I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before11 March 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman