DRN-1791946
The complaint
Mr K complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited misled him and provided contradictory 
information regarding a car finance agreement.
What happened
Our investigator has set out the background at some length in his view letter and I trust both 
parties will understand that I have not felt it necessary to repeat that detail here. In summary, 
Mr K entered into a hire purchase agreement to purchase a car in December 2017. The sum 
borrowed was £1,700 and was payable over some two years.  Mr K says that he wasnt 
given the full documentation at the time of the purchase and he was given confusing and 
conflicting information about the payments he had to make. 
Mr K contacted MotoNovo and it rejected his complaint. He says that the matter was handled 
badly. He brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He noted the paperwork Mr K had been given and the full agreement which he only received 
later. Our investigator agreed that some of this could be confusing with a reference to 25 
months and also to 23 monthly payments, but he considered the money sought by 
MotoNovo to be correct. He said that there was reference to various fees in addition to the 
capital and interest which were payable by Mr K and while this may not have been as clear 
as it could have been, he didnt think MotoNovo had made a mistake.
Mr K had asked for a breakdown of the admin fees in the contract which MotoNovo had 
refused to provide. Our investigator didnt think it acted unreasonably in not doing so.
On the matter of the incomplete contract given to Mr K at the point of sale he said he had to 
consider was most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is available and the 
wider surrounding circumstances. He didnt think Mr K had been unfairly induced into 
entering the agreement. Mr K didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ks strength of feeling on the is matter but I do not consider I can uphold his 
complaint I will explain why.
Mr K entered into a contract which was made up as follows:
Amount Borrowed £1,700
Admin Fee Part A £199
Admin Fee Part B £149
Interest £276.84
Option to Purchase Fee £10
Total £2,334.84.
The contract he received states that he will pay 23 instalments of £90.66 and a final payment 
of £249.66. This totals £2,334.84. This the sum he has paid per the statement I have seen. I 
recognise that the contract refers to it being for 25 months, but that doesnt mean that he has 
to pay 25 instalments. 
I am satisfied that the information made available to Mr K was sufficiently clear. I cannot say 
what was said by the salesman, but the paperwork he was given sets it out as clearly as is 
necessary. In short, he agreed to pay £2,334.84 in exchange for borrowing money to buy a 
car which he had been able to make use of. That is what the business has expected him to 
pay and that is what it has asked him to pay. I cannot say that it has done anything wrong
I cannot comment on the handling of his complaint as that is not a regulated activity and not 
within my remit, but I would add that I dont see the need for Moto Novo to provide an 
analysis of its admin charges
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman