DRN-4084597
The complaint
The estate of Mr W complain that Premier Plus Limited (Premier Plus) have made errors, 
resulting in financial loss to the estate and incorrect payments being received. 
What happened
The late Mr W passed away in April 2021. Premier Plus are the advisory firm assisting the 
estate with financial matters.
The estate received proceeds on one plan on 26 October 2021. Mr W held a second plan 
termed an inheritance bond with the same provider. Which consisted of a whole of life 
policy and an endowment policy. They received proceeds from the whole-of-life part of the 
plan on 27 October 2021. 
The provider subsequently noted that distributions had incorrectly been paid to the estate in 
June and September 2021. Premier Plus acknowledges that this is because they didnt 
make the provider aware of Mr Ws date of death until September 2021, despite having the 
necessary details prior to this. 
The provider asked the estate to repay the distributions (approximately £9,100) before they 
release the remaining value of the second plan (approximately £3,700).  The estate of Mr W 
were unhappy with this. They said it wasnt their fault the distributions had been made and 
argued that the delay had caused them financial loss, so they complained to Premier Plus. 
Premier Plus accepted their error had caused the distributions to be paid incorrectly. Whilst 
they didnt agree to repay the funds themselves, they offered to compensate the estate for 
the delay in receiving the total funds from the second plan. They calculated this to be 
£2,702.44 and also offered the executors of the estate, £200 each for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
The estate of Mr W wasnt happy and brought the complaint to our service for review. An 
investigator looked into it. After some initial clarification, she said that the offer Premier Plus 
had made (including the interest calculation) was fair in the circumstances. 
The estate of Mr W remained unhappy, they said that the compensation wasnt enough and 
that they shouldnt be required to repay the distributions paid because of Premier Plus error. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Premier Plus acknowledges they caused a delay to the estate of Mr W receiving due 
proceeds from the provider. This was because they didnt pass Mr Ws date of death to the 
provider until September 2021. They also incorrectly requested and waited for a grant of 
probate from the estate, despite a trust being in place and it not being needed. 
Premier Plus have said the proceeds could have been paid out a month after they were 
asked to help by the estate in May 2021. I think this is reasonable and I agree with the 
period of delay that they have identified of 127 days. 
In some circumstances we can calculate the loss to an estate and this is one of them. This is 
because the estate have made clear what they would have done with the proceeds had they 
received them sooner, and thats pay into an account with a rate of return of 2%. This was 
quoted to the business when the complaint was raised, we have evidence of it. Therefore, I 
am satisfied that the financial loss calculated and offered by Premier Plus is fair. 
The estate has had the benefit of approximately £9,100 they shouldnt have received from 
the provider, due to Premier Plus not informing them of the date of death sooner. Whilst I 
acknowledge the error, the estate isnt entitled to these distributions. It doesnt follow that 
Premier Plus should repay this amount instead and I wont be asking them to do so. 
Premier Plus has separately made an offer of compensation to both executors for the 
inconvenience caused. However, this service cant make such an award to an estate or 
executors. That is because the eligible complainant is the late Mr W and the estate brings 
the complaint on his behalf. They individually are not eligible complainants and as such I 
cant make an award to them. They should contact Premier Plus directly regarding these 
separate offers. 
In summary, I am satisfied with the calculation of the length of delay and calculation of 
financial loss made by Premier Plus and think it is fair in the circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision for the reasons set out above, is that the offer already made by Premier 
Plus Limited is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. They should pay the estate of Mr W 
£2,702.44 if they havent already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman