DRN-4467362
The complaint
Mr S has complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) unreasonably 
refused to provide temporary cover for an additional car he wanted to add to his two policies 
at varying times. 
Hes also complained that the renewal premiums for his policies are too high. 
What happened
Mr S has two policies with UKI. He also has a car that he treats as a classic car which he 
adds on to either policy at varying times. 
UKI said Mr S had added this car on to his policies too many times as it only allows such 
temporary cover five times in any one policy year. It said Mr S surpassed this on both of his 
policies and therefore declined to agree any further instances of temporary cover for this car 
in the relevant policy year. 
As regards the premium increase, Mr S is of the view UKI the premium increase on both 
policies is far in excess of what any increases the motor industry is facing, and he 
considered them unfair. He also thought UKI reduced the price once it knew he had brought 
his complaint to us. UKI on the other hand said it offered an extra discount which was the 
best it could do on talking to Mr S, which had nothing to do with the complaint being brought 
to this service. And it said there was nothing wrong with its renewal letter or the details on 
the portal which Mr S also complained about. 
As Mr S remained dissatisfied, he brought his complaint to us. The investigator ultimately 
didnt uphold it. She could see that UKI didnt make Mr S aware of the limit on how many 
times in a policy year, temporary cover for another car could be made, but as UKI 
compensated Mr S for this by paying him £20 compensation, she didnt think it had to do 
anything further in this regard. 
Concerning the premium increase, the investigator was of the view that UKI hadnt done 
anything wrong in dropping the price when Mr S said he could buy a policy cheaper. 
Mr S didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
Dealing first with the issue of temporary cover for Mr S car which he only drives 
occasionally. I consider its fair and reasonable that there would be a limit as to how many 
times adding another car to a policy is permitted. Its a concession to be used in an 
emergency rather than how Mr S used it for a car which he only drives occasionally. 
Therefore, I dont consider UKI did anything wrong in refusing further on-going instances of 
this temporary cover for this car when he had exceeded the number of times he could do so.  
I do however think UKIs wordings in Mr S policies should have made it clear he was limited 
to using this temporary cover to five times in any one policy year. So as that wasnt the case, 
I consider it reasonable that UKI compensated Mr S in the sum of £20 compensation. 
I appreciate initially that the investigator was of the view that UKI hadnt paid any 
compensation for this, so she thought it should pay £80 compensation. I consider that figure 
to be too high given the concessionary emergency nature of the temporary cover, so I 
consider the £20 paid by UKI to be more reasonable and fairer, instead. If Mr S wanted to 
drive this car as often as he has done, I do think it would be more reasonable if he bought a 
policy for that car or added it in to any multi-car type policy instead.
Turning now to the premium increases, insurers are permitted to price a risk in any way they 
think fit provided they treat policyholders in similar circumstances the same. So, its not just a 
question of pricing premiums for extra costs the motor industry might face as Mr S believes. 
The regulator permits insurers to decide for themselves what premium to charge for what 
risk, given they are commercial enterprises. 
Here, as it is required UKI provided Mr S with renewal invitations for his two policies. The 
price quoted on the renewal invitation is only valid until the expiry date of the policy. 
Therefore, as premium levels change all the time, doing a separate quote during that time-
period might generate a higher or lesser premium. So, in then talking to the insurer this 
might change the renewal premium quoted. So, the renewal premium is merely an offer 
which the policyholder can either accept or reject as they please. I dont therefore see any 
need for UKI to post out a new renewal invite for any changes to the original renewal 
invitation, as Mr S believes. 
Mr S hasnt provided any evidence of the reduced quote he obtained, to this service, nor 
indeed to UKI. Nevertheless, when he brought it to UKIs attention it was able to match his 
quote for him. From what I understand Mr S did a dummy quote pretending to be a new 
customer which then generated a lower quote. But as Ive no evidence of that and neither 
has UKI, I cant comment further. It is however standard industry practice that in some cases 
there is such movement on renewal quotes in this way, given they can fluctuate almost daily. 
However, theres no evidence at all that UKI decided to reduce the premium quoted simply 
due to Mr S bringing his complaint to this service. 
Theres also no evidence that UKI purported to break any regulations either, given it 
matched the quote Mr S said he had obtained without Mr S producing any evidence. Mr S 
did mention additional data protection issues, but this service cant deal with those as only 
the Information Commissioners Office can do that.  
In conclusion I dont consider UKI did anything wrong on the two issues that Mr S 
complained about.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman