DRN-2767344
The complaint
Miss T and Mr T say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy
What happened
It looks like Miss T and Mr T took out a PPI policy in 1990 at the same time as they 
purchased their mortgage. There is very limited information available, but it looks like the 
policy was in both their names and they paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss T and Mr T disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss T and Mr Ts case. 
 
Having done all this, Im not upholding Miss T and Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss T and Mr T say they werent aware PPI had been added to their mortgage. Nationwide 
should have taken reasonable steps to make Miss T and Mr T aware that they had a choice 
about buying the PPI. Nationwide hasnt been able to provide any documentation from the 
sale, which isnt surprising considering this took place such a long time ago.
So, Ive looked at everything we know about how Nationwide normally sold PPI around that 
time. And based on what we know about such sales, consumers were usually asked to 
choose whether or not they wanted PPI. There is nothing to suggest in what Miss T and Mr T 
have told me to make me think Nationwide didnt follow its normal procedures here. 
So, I think its more likely that Miss T and Mr T were given a choice and they chose to buy 
the policy, even if they dont remember this now, many years later.
Nationwide says the policy wasnt personally recommended to Miss T and Mr T. So, it didnt 
need to check that it was right for them. But it still needed to give them clear enough 
information so they could decide for themselves whether they wanted it.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt give Miss T and Mr T as much information as it should 
have done. But I dont think better information wouldve put them off taking out the PPI. I say 
this because both Miss T and Mr T were eligible for the policy and they dont appear to have 
been affected by any of the main things that the policy doesnt cover, such as unusual 
employment status or suffering from any medical conditions which they were already aware 
of.
Miss T and Mr T have explained they had some sick pay benefits from their employers  as 
well as some savings. Miss T has explained her family could have supported them if they 
needed to. But the policy would have paid out alongside any employee benefits they had. As 
for their savings, having the PPI in place, would have meant those savings could be used for 
their intended purposes or left intact. 
Ive thought about what Miss T has said about her family being able to help out. And whilst I 
dont doubt this is the case, peoples circumstances can change. So, this help couldnt be 
guaranteed. Miss T and Mr T were taking on a long-term financial commitment  secured 
against their home. And the consequences of not being able to make their mortgage 
repayments could be serious. So, I think they wouldve wanted the security that their 
mortgage repayments would have been covered if either of them had been unable to work.  
I dont know what information was given to Miss T and Mr T about the cost of the policy. It 
may be that Nationwide could have explained the cost better than it did. But I havent seen 
anything to make me think that the policy was unaffordable for them  or any compelling 
evidence that - they had a particular need to keep costs down. And for all the same reasons 
why I think this policy was useful for them, I still think they wouldve bought the policy even if 
the cost had been clearer. 
Overall, I dont think Miss T and Mr T have lost out as a result of anything Nationwide 
mightve done wrong. 
Its been difficult to decide on this complaint, as I know so little about how Miss T and Mr T 
came to have the PPI. Ive taken into account all of their comments, but these points dont 
change my conclusion. And based on the information Ive got, I dont think I can fairly and 
reasonably say the PPI was mis-sold to them. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman