DRN-4198445
The complaint
Mr H complains that West Bay Insurance Plc unfairly gave notice of their intention to cancel 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H insured two cars with West Bay on separate policies. The first car was damaged in an 
accident and Mr H made a claim. West Bay concluded that the car should be a Category B 
write off and taken off the road due to the damage caused. 
Mr H disputed this and referred a complaint about the vehicle categorisation (as well as 
other matters relating to the claim) to our service. At the conclusion of our investigation, I 
issued a final decision saying I thought West Bay had acted fairly. Im aware Mr H didnt 
accept our decision and continues to dispute the categorisation of the vehicle.
While Mr Hs complaint about the categorisation of the car was ongoing, West Bay informed 
him that it intended to cancel his other policy. Mr H complained about this and West Bay said 
it would no longer cancel the policy but wouldnt offer a renewal when the policy expired.
Mr H remained unhappy with West Bay as he said that the notice to cancel the policy had 
had a very serious impact on his health. He referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator thought West Bay hadnt acted fairly and should pay Mr H £450 compensation. 
West Bay didnt agree with this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
On reviewing the complaint, I believed that the complaint should be upheld, for broadly the 
same reasons as our investigator. However, I considered that the suggested compensation 
amount was too high, and that £250 more fairly reflected the impact on Mr H. I therefore 
issued a provisional decision.
Mr H accepted my provisional decision. West Bay said it didnt accept my findings, but didnt 
make any additional points or provide any further information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any additional points in response to my provisional decision, I 
dont intend to expand on my reasons why I consider the complaint should be upheld, or why 
£250 is a fair compensation amount. I remain satisfied this is a fair outcome having 
considered all of the information available to me. My provisional decision said:
When it gave notice of its intention to cancel the policy, West Bay referred to the terms and 
conditions which say West Bay may cancel this policy by giving you seven days notice in 
writing, to your most recent address we have for you. 
It isnt disputed that West Bay did send written notice to Mr H, outlining its intention to cancel 
the policy in seven days. This is what the policy terms and conditions say it can do. Theres 
no list of reasons given for cancellation the policy, or requirement in the condition that West 
Bay give reasons. 
Insurers have an overarching duty to treat their customers fairly. Its fair to say that a 
decision to cancel a policy should only be taken where that action is a reasonable response 
in the circumstances. For example, wed generally say that an insurer is entitled to give 
notice to cancel a policy (while giving the policyholder the right to cancel within that notice 
period) if the risk presented to the insurer had changed significantly within the period of 
cover.
A policy being cancelled by an insurer is something which would need to be disclosed when 
asked, for example by a future insurer, and would be likely to influence an insurers decision 
about whether to accept cover, and on what terms.
West Bay says it gave this notice to cancel because of what it described as Mr Hs lack of 
co-operation and your intentions to restore and the use the Category B written off vehicle. It 
said his intention to do so was deemed as dangerous and illegal and his actions have 
been deemed unreasonable and unsafe.
Mr H says he thinks West Bay were victimising him, because of his ongoing dispute about 
the categorisation of the vehicle, and his refusal to accept it should be a Category B write off. 
Hes told us that if the policy were to be cancelled by West Bay, hed have to tell his 
employer and hed lose his job. At the time of West Bay informing him it intended to cancel, 
he was due to return to work following long term sickness, but has said that West Bays 
actions caused his health to deteriorate.
I understand West Bay had concerns about Mr Hs intention to repair and return to the road 
a vehicle that it had said should be disposed of. However, I dont think that it was fair to give 
notice that it intended to cancel a policy which covered a different car.
I say this for two main reasons. The first is that the policy being cancelled was wholly 
separate from the policy on which Mr H had made the claim and was disputing the vehicle 
categorisation. I cant see how any of Mr Hs actions in regards to that claim had any 
material effect on the cover he had with this policy. West Bay hasnt provided any evidence 
in the form of its underwriting criteria or other information which suggests that the risk level 
of this policy was higher as a result of Mr Hs actions. Mr Hs intention was to repair the 
vehicle, but that doesnt affect the road worthiness or West Bays potential liabilities on the 
other vehicle insured under this policy.
I also note that at the time of sending this letter, Mr H had indicated his intention to repair the 
other vehicle. Repairs to the vehicle hadnt been carried out, and theres no indication Mr H 
was using the vehicle at the time. 
Im not sure it was reasonable to cancel the policy based on what Mr H had indicated he 
intended to do, as opposed to him having actually repaired the car and started using it  if 
that was the case I could potentially understand West Bays reluctance to continue insuring 
him on the separate policy. The vehicle in question was (and remains) subject of a dispute 
around the categorisation and whether it could be safely repaired. It wasnt being used by Mr 
H in an allegedly illegal or unsafe way.
Theres one other point I think I should mention briefly. If West Bay had concerns about Mr H 
acting illegally, and of the effect this could have on this policy and the cover available, then 
Id question why it reversed its decision when he complained and agreed not to cancel the 
policy but rather not offer renewal when the policy expired. The policy had around 8 months 
cover remaining at the time, and so West Bay had changed from saying that it wasnt appropriate to cover Mr H any further, to agreeing to do so for a significant period of time. 
This suggests to me there was no material change in the risk on this policy.
So on balance, Im not satisfied that West Bay acted fairly when it gave notice to cancel the 
policy. It can make a business decision, based on the conduct of a policyholder, not to offer 
renewal of the policy at expiry, and I wouldnt criticise its right to do so. I note this was the 
position it adopted after Mr H complained. 
I understand the effect of the letter on Mr H was significant. His impression from the letter 
was that because hed disputed what West Bay should happen to his damaged vehicle, 
West Bay had unilaterally decided to cancel his other policy. I can understand why he felt he 
was being victimised by West Bay, and I agree that he wasnt treated fairly. 
Im also conscious that Mr H would have been affected by needing to tell his employer if the 
policy was cancelled. Hed have been concerned for his job security if he did so, as hes 
employed as a driver. He was also have been aware that if the policy was cancelled, he was 
likely to face difficulties in securing alternative cover, and significantly increased premiums.
West Bay was aware of Mr Hs ill health following the accident, and I do think the unfair 
decision to give notice to cancel the policy could have been foreseen to have a significant 
impact on Mr H.
However, Im conscious as well that there was a matter of days between Mr H receiving the 
letter about the policy being cancelled and West Bay reversing its decision and saying the 
policy wouldnt be cancelled. Im satisfied West Bay acted quickly to resolve the matter and 
so the length of time that Mr H was caused distress before the threat of cancellation was 
withdrawn was relatively short.
For the reasons outlined above, I believe that £250 compensation fairly reflects the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr H, taking into account the impact on his health but that it 
was for a short period of time.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold Mr Hs complaint. To put things right, West Bay Insurance Plc 
must pay Mr H £250 compensation. West Bay must pay this amount within 28 days of us 
telling it Mr H accepts our decision. If it doesnt, it must pay simple interest at a rate of 8% on 
this amount from that date to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman