DRN-2291688
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) were 
unreasonable when rejecting a claim, he made to them under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr C made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so the way Tesco handled Mr Cs complaint 
and the time that it took them to respond to the complaint isnt something our service is able 
to investigate. However, I have looked at whether Tescos response to Mr Cs claim was fair.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Mr C says the merchant have breached their contract because they havent arranged an 
inspection or replaced his mattress under the five year guarantee he is supposed to benefit 
from.
That guarantee says that the merchant guarantee to repair or replace any part of a bed 
deemed to be defective due to faulty materials or workmanship free of charge for a period of 
5 years it goes on to explain that the mattress is considered a part of the bed.
The guarantee also says:
Sometimes we might arrange to send a furniture technician to have a look. The decision of 
this inspector will be final.
It doesnt say that they will always send a technician to view the fault. So, I dont think theres a 
guarantee that the merchant will inspect the fault, but I do think if a fault is identified and the fault 
can be attributed to faulty materials or poor workmanship the guarantee will apply. 
The relevant legislation says that after six months has passed the onus is on the consumer to 
demonstrate there is a fault and that it was present when the product was supplied.
So, in this case, as Mr C reported a problem after about four years, he would need to provide 
evidence that shows there is a fault with the mattress and that the fault is most likely to have 
been present or developing when the mattress was supplied or, in the case of his guarantee, that 
the fault relates to poor workmanship or faulty materials.
As the onus is on Mr C to demonstrate the fault it is not the merchants or Tescos responsibility 
to arrange an expert inspection of the mattress. In the absence of that inspection I do not think 
there is sufficient evidence to show there is a fault that was present or developing at the point the 
mattress was sold or that relates to faulty materials or poor workmanship. I therefore dont think 
Tesco were unreasonable when rejecting Mr Cs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman