DRN-3792396
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his current account and his Gold card
account with no notice and no justification. He also complains about a number of things that
happened after this, which he considers are all consequences of HSBCs mistake.
What happened
Mr S told us his HSBC current account was closed on 24 May 2021 without any prior notice.
He said the first he knew of this was on 30 May, when he got an email saying HSBC was
required to send him a transaction history for the closed account.
Mr S phoned HSBC right away, but it was a bank holiday, and no one could help until
Tuesday 1 June. Mr S said he registered a complaint, and because HSBC said it would take
a while to resolve, he told HSBC he would charge £1,000 per hour until his claim was
answered. Mr S has told us this was a tactic to make sure that HSBC would pay attention to
his complaint, but he also tells us that hes still seeking this, as part of a larger overall
payment of compensation by HSBC.
Mr S said he went into a branch of HSBC on the following Tuesday, and the manager there
obtained a written response for him, saying his account had been closed for misbehaviour.
Mr S subsequently received a letter telling him hed asked to close his Gold card account.
Mr S said HSBC then reopened his accounts without his permission. He thought it only did
this so it could put through the direct debits to pay his Gold card, then reverse these
transactions and tell Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) he hadnt paid, thus ruining his
credit rating.
Mr S said he is an elderly man in failing health. He had banked with HSBC for many
decades. He told us he had many direct debits, standing orders and nominated account
payments for his pensions and investments, all of which ended when the account was
closed. Mr S said he had to research details of these, which hed found very difficult and time
consuming to do. He said that had an adverse effect on his already poor health. Mr S said
that fortunately he had substantial assets. He also told us he previously had an excellent
credit rating.
Mr S wanted HSBC to pay £39,267 for the delay in explaining the reason for closing his
account without notice. He wanted it to reinstate his excellent credit rating with all CRAs and
to pay compensation of £300 per point reduction from its previous level to whatever the
score was when this complaint was eventually resolved. And finally, he wanted HSBC to pay
£50,000 to a named charity for extreme distress and inconvenience caused to him by HSBC.
HSBC said it had taken action on 24 May 2021 to close Mr Ss account. It sent him a cheque
for the balance on 26 May. It understood Mr S had contacted it on the bank holiday
weekend, when no one was available to speak to him about this.
HSBC said Mr S was initially told that it would be unable to re-open his account as it was
closed following a periodic review of his account and activity. That wasnt right, and Mr Ss
account had been closed in error. HSBC said it wrote to Mr S on 19 July 2021, to explain
this, and offer £2,000 in compensation.
As the account was closed in error, HSBC said it was reopened on 14 July, in line with the
request Mr S made. It had also contacted the CRAs to remove the account closure from Mr
Ss credit report.
HSBC said it had written to Mr S asking him to continue to make his monthly payments to his
credit card. But payments had been missed. HSBC said Mr S hadnt been denied access to
his funds or unable to meet his monthly repayments because of HSBCs error. It expected
him to continue making his monthly payments.
HSBC said Mr S was unhappy that it was asking him to pay the card, and he had raised a
complaint of harassment. HSBC said this was the same root cause as the previous
complaint, the closure of his account, so it treated this all as one complaint. Mr S was
unhappy about this too.
HSBC said Mr S had asked HSBC to initiate a swich of his bank account to a new bank, via
the account switch service. HSBC said it couldnt do that. The switching service requires the
receiving bank to start the process.
HSBC said that most recently, Mr S hadnt been clear about whether he wanted HSBC to
keep his account open or to close it. HSBC had left the account in place for the moment.
HSBC said it had offered Mr S £2,000 for what had gone wrong. Mr S hadnt accepted that,
but HSBC thought it was fair.
Our investigator also thought the offer HSBC had made in this case was fair. She said that
as Mr S was unhappy about the account closures and made a complaint, it was reasonable
for HSBC to reopen those accounts. It would close them again if Mr S wanted.
Our investigator said Mr S wanted HSBC to use some of the large compensation payment
he was asking for, to pay off his card, but she didnt think HSBC needed to pay more for
what had gone wrong. So HSBC could use the payment it had offered against Mr Ss credit
card balance, but he would still owe some money then, and our investigator said Mr S would
have to pay this. She said although HSBC had closed Mr Ss accounts, it also sent him a
cheque for the balance, so he wasnt deprived of his money.
Our investigator said HSBC had removed the negative impact this account closure had from
Mr Ss credit record. And it had provided a letter for Mr S to use as evidence if he had any
other problems with his credit score because of the error HSBC made.
Our investigator said HSBC couldnt start a switch out of Mr Ss bank account, his new bank
had to do this. And she said that if Mr S wanted to accept HSBCs offer now, he could let us
know.
Mr S didnt want to do that, and he didnt agree with our investigator. He sent a detailed
response, arguing that our investigator had misrepresented his complaint.
Mr S repeated that HSBC had only reopened his account to process the direct debit for his
card payment. He said although he previously had a free overdraft of more than enough to
cover this monthly payment, the payment wasnt made, and HSBC had started chasing him
for payment. Mr S said this resulted in severe damage to his credit score. And Mr S said he
considered what HSBC had done, including asking for payment, to be criminal harassment.Mr S said the purpose of his request for £39,267 was to get an immediate reply as to why
the account had been closed. It achieved its purpose. But Mr S also repeated that he still
wants HSBC to pay this amount.
Mr S said it was a gross misrepresentation of the facts to say that he wanted his credit card
balance to be offset against this amount of compensation. Mr S said these were our
investigators words, not his. He referred us to a letter dated 4 March 2022.
Mr S didnt quote this letter in his reply, but it says, When ombudsman responds to claim
the credit card balance will be considered. However, on 20 June 2021, Mr S also wrote to
HSBC, and that letter says, Until this matter has been resolved you may automatically set
off any valid balances due on CMC 9252 against the £39,267 claimed.
Mr S said HSBC and his new bank had told him that he couldnt switch a closed account
from HSBC. He said this resulted in numerous direct debits and credits being unpaid, with
damage to his credit record. He said it also took weeks of work to find all the relevant details.
More recently, Mr S has told us that his credit report shows that all his credit payments have
been paid on time, except for HSBC Card Services. That was paid on time until May 2021,
when the bank account was closed.
Mr S said that he was elderly, and in failing health, and would be unable to restore his
previously excellent credit record unless HSBC explained its behaviour to the CRAs. Thats
why he wanted HSBC to pay for every point his credit score had dropped.
Mr S said although HSBC said his account closure was a mistake, there was no evidence of
that. He thought it was a deliberate policy to close all accounts it considered unprofitable.
Mr S said hed been offered compensation in accordance with the scale [emphasis in the
original] and he said that didnt relate to HSBCs breach of contract or the impact on him. He
questioned the ability of our service to investigate this issue competently. Mr S said it was
cheaper for banks to continue to make mistakes. He told us about his personal background,
and said this had a severe impact on him.
Mr S queried whether HSBC continued to remove the ongoing negative impact this problem
was having on his credit file.
Mr S wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Mr S then wrote again, after
his complaint had been passed to me for a final decision, to say that because HSBC had
closed his account, he had now been refused a replacement credit card by a different lender.
He said he needed that card.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then: 
I should perhaps start by saying what I can and cannot consider as part of this complaint. 
I am looking here solely at the issues Mr S has reported to us. Our service deals with
individual complaints. Mr S has expressed dissatisfaction with the work of our service to
date, the remit it fulfils, as well as with how our service is resourced. Its not part of my 
role to respond to those comments here. Rather, I carry out a complete review of Mr Ss 
complaint, and provide my decision.
It may also assist if I set out, before looking at the detail of what has gone wrong here, 
that I have to bear in mind HSBC has already made an offer of £2,000 in this case. I will 
address each of Mr Ss points below, but unless I can see that this has been an exceptionally serious event, which could not reasonably have been mitigated by either 
party, then its unlikely that I would ask HSBC to pay more than it has already offered.
Ill now look at each of Mr Ss concerns in turn.
Mr Ss account was closed without notice
Theres no dispute that this happened. Mr Ss current account was closed without notice,
and his Gold card account was then also closed. (I understand that HSBC refers to this 
as a credit card, but Mr S disputes that. He considers it is an unlimited charge card. This 
is not material to this complaint, other than to note that Mr S has not been charged 
interest on the outstanding balance.)
HSBC sent Mr S a cheque for the current account balance. I understand Mr S was able to
open a new account elsewhere. He appears to have applied for this account at the first
available opportunity, on 1 June, and it was opened by 3 June. I understand Mr S no 
longer regularly uses his HSBC account.
HSBC accepts it made a mistake when it closed this account, and that this would have
inconvenienced and indeed distressed Mr S. It has apologised to Mr S for this. And on 19
July, HSBC asked the CRAs to remove all adverse credit data from 24 May 2021 to date. 
It told the CRAs that both accounts had been closed as a result of bank error, and were 
being reopened. It also sent Mr S a letter he could use to explain what had gone wrong, if 
any payments had been missed in this time.
Its clear that HSBC made a mistake here, and that it took HSBC well over a month to 
realise that this was a mistake. But I also think it then took appropriate steps to minimise 
the impact on Mr S.
Mr Ss accounts were then reopened.
Mr S says this was done without his permission, and was only done so that HSBC could
request the direct debit for his card payment, then report him for non-payment. HSBC 
said that Mr S had requested that his accounts be reopened.
I have listened to a recording of Mr Ss original complaint. I can hear on that call, he
confirmed he wanted the account reopened. He said I want it reopened immediately. 
And when he received a letter saying his Gold card was being closed, he said Take 
notice that I have never said that I no longer want this card or instructed you to end the 
card agreement. Your closing the card is in direct contravention of my wishes and in 
breach of the agreement. I think this did indicate that Mr S wanted both accounts to be 
reopened.
I also note that Mr S said he wanted to switch accounts, which cant be done with a 
closed account. And Mr S has told us he received a significant number of payments into 
the closed HSBC current account. Reopening would make sure those payments were 
safely received by Mr S. For all those reasons, but primarily because Mr S himself did 
appear to have requested this, I think that HSBC was right to reopen Mr Ss accounts.
When Mr Ss current account was reopened, his previous overdraft wasnt reinstated. A
direct debit then repeatedly called for full payment of his HSBC card (in August, 
September and October 2021). But this payment wasnt made, because there was no 
money in the account and there was no overdraft facility.
I asked HSBC to explain this, and to show it notified Mr S that his overdraft wasntreinstated. Its reply suggests it cannot show us it notified Mr S of this, before it wrote to 
him on 7 September to say that a direct debit was returned unpaid. And to date it hasnt 
offered any explanation of why it didnt put the overdraft back on, either right away, or 
subsequently when Mr S alerted it to the fact that this hadnt been reinstated.
I dont think its entirely unreasonable of HSBC not to reinstate Mr Ss overdraft, when he
had made clear that he was deeply dissatisfied with the bank, and it must have seemed
unlikely that he would resume regular use of the account. However, I do think HSBC 
should have written to Mr S straight away to tell him this, when it reopened his account, if 
it didnt intend to reinstate his previous overdraft facility.
I think Mr Ss card payment wasnt made in September 2021 because his overdraft wasnt
reinstated, and he wasnt clearly told this. So I will ask HSBC to remove any negative
markers on Mr Ss credit file for this card, covering payments missed until the end of
September 2021. Ill return to the subsequent missed payments to his card below.
Account switching
Mr S said both HSBC and his new bank told him switching couldnt be done with a closed
account. However, HSBC then reinstated Mr Ss current account. I can see that Mr S
requested that HSBC switch his account on 3 June, and it looks as if HSBC didnt tell Mr 
S that it couldnt do this for him, he would have to ask his new bank to do this, until 20
September. I think it would have been helpful if Mr S had been told this by HSBC in its
complaint response letter of 19 July.
Mr S has told us it was a very significant amount of work to reinstate all of the payments
which were previously made from his old account, and received into that account. I think 
its likely that much of this work was done by the time HSBC had told him how to switch to 
his new bank. But I also note that this HSBC account is still open, so Mr S can still switch 
this account if he wants to, which may have advantages to him in making sure payments 
are forwarded to and made from the account he now regularly uses.
Position of the Gold card now
Mr S has told us how his credit file has been impacted by non-payment of his Gold card, 
and about the wider impact this had on him. Ive explained above why I think Mr Ss 
payment of September 2021 was missed, and that I think HSBC should remove any 
negative markers on Mr Ss credit file, up to this point.
HSBC did write to Mr S on 7 September, saying that a direct debit for £6,223.03 had been
returned unpaid, because HSBC wasnt comfortable agreeing the unarranged overdraft. 
On 9 September, it wrote to him to say his card account hadnt been paid, and it set out 
ways that Mr S could make this payment. HSBC said then that it had removed the direct 
debit to pay his card, although in fact the payment was still called for once more, in 
October.
I understand that Mr S has been frustrated and angered by what has happened, but I do
think that where hes able to take some steps to minimise the impact on himself, it is
reasonable to expect him to do that. In July, HSBC had made clear that it didnt intend to 
pay Mr S the large amount of compensation that he had claimed. It repeated this in 
September, and said the amount it was prepared to pay wouldnt cover the outstanding 
debt on his card.
Also in September, it told him that his latest card payment had been missed, and 
explained how he could pay this.Mr S has told us he has very considerable financial resources, so I think Mr S could have
paid his Gold card, in October 2021. And I dont think its reasonable to hold HSBC
responsible for Mr S not doing so. So I dont think HSBC has to remove any negative data 
it has reported to CRAs for Mr Ss October 2021 card payment, or payments subsequent 
to this.
Complaint handling
Mr S has very strongly objected to HSBC pursuing him for payment of his card, and he 
said he wanted HSBC to record a fresh complaint for harassment resulting from its 
actions in reinstating his account. HSBC wouldnt record this as a separate complaint, 
because it said this was all part of one problem.
Complaint handling itself isnt a regulated activity, so our service cannot consider a
complaint which is solely about how HSBC has managed Mr Ss complaints to it. Insofar 
as this is part of resolving the key issues before me, HSBC has told us it grouped these 
issues together so it could be confident it had properly assessed the impact of the 
account closure on Mr S. I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to do that.
I also think its reasonable for HSBC to ask Mr S to pay the outstanding balance on his 
Gold card. I havent seen anything that makes me think HSBC has been unreasonable in 
how it has done this.
Level of compensation
There are a number of points above where I have upheld Mr Ss complaint. I think HSBC
made a mistake in closing his current account, and the linked Gold card account. I think it
made a mistake in not telling him, in good time, that he should ask his new bank to
implement an account switch. I think it made a mistake in not telling him right away that it
hadnt reinstated the large overdraft on his current account. And I think it has to remove a
little more of the negative impact on Mr Ss credit file.
Mr H asked for a compensation payment of £39,267 for the delay in explaining the reason
for closing his account without notice. He wanted HSBC to fully reinstate his previous 
credit rating and to pay compensation of £300 per point reduction, which in early October 
would have meant a payment of a little over £40,000. And he wanted HSBC to pay 
£50,000 to a named charity.
I have not upheld all of the complaint issues that Mr S has raised. And I do not think it 
would be consistent with other awards our service has made, or indeed our services 
overall approach to compensation, to make a payment of the size that Mr S has 
suggested.
I note that HSBC has offered £2,000. I do think that a payment of that amount, taken with 
the further credit file amendment I noted above, provides a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint. I know that Mr S will be disappointed, but I dont think HSBC has to pay 
more than that.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC said it had nothing to add. Mr S sent us a detailed reply. 
Mr S said the core of this complaint was a breach of contract, which he said HSBC admitted 
on 15 July 2021, in closing his current account without prior notice and the consequences 
that followed as a direct result of that breach. He said he had the right to claim compensation 
for that breach and both parties have an obligation to mitigate their losses.
Mr S began by setting out what he said were incorrect statements in my provisional decision. 
Ill respond to each of those in turn, before setting out the remainder of his representations.
Mr S said HSBC didnt close his Gold card in May 2021, he had used it up until 4 July. He 
said HSBC had harassed him about payment of the remaining balance £6,223.03 to date, so 
he assumed HSBC had kept the account open.
I cant see that Ive suggested a date when Mr Ss Gold card was closed. I can see that 
HSBC wrote to Mr S on 6 July, through his online banking messaging system, saying he had 
asked to close his Gold card. (Mr S replied to say he had not.) And it said on 25 August that 
the credit card account (which is how HSBC has consistently referred to Mr Ss Gold card) 
had been reinstated. For those reasons, I think it is likely that the Gold card account was 
closed then reopened. And Mr S appears to have taken this view at some point, because I 
note that he wrote to HSBC on 21 July 2021 saying I consider that HSBC are in breach of 
their contract with me and their banking licence regarding the above Gold card because 
they: a) closed the account without prior notice and without my consent.. Subsequent 
reference to this being an account that I have paid on time every month for the 50 or so 
years since issued makes clear that Mr S is referring to his Gold card account here.
Mr S said his call to HSBC on 30 May was solely about his current account. And hed asked 
for the account to be reopened immediately not weeks later. Mr S said he then wrote on 7 
July in reference to the Gold Card only. He felt that what he said then could not possibly 
indicate that he wanted both accounts to be reopened. 
I think Mr S had clearly objected to the closure of both of these accounts. And he had asked 
explicitly for one to be reopened. So I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to reopen 
these accounts. I note that on 14 September HSBC said it would close the current account 
again if that was Mr Ss preference.
Mr S said, where Id noted Reopening [his account] would make sure those payments would 
be safely received that this showed I had clearly not understood what had happened. 
I still think that reopening Mr Ss account, which he said was set as the account for a number 
of investments to pay into, would make sure that he would still receive any investment 
payments he hasnt yet managed to divert to his new account.
Mr S set out what he felt hed done in mitigation, which took the form of a timeline of his 
complaint. I shall set out his timeline, and provide my responses, below. 
Mr S said on Sunday 30 May, he called HSBC and claimed £1,000 per hour until it told him 
the reason for the closure. Mr S has explained that this amount was the same as the hourly 
fee he pays a top QC.
On Tuesday 1 June 2021 he went to a branch of HSBC and after an hour and a half 
obtained a letter claiming the account closure was due to his misbehaviour.On 3 June he opened a new current account elsewhere. He asked to use the account 
switching service, but he says he was told this wasnt possible as his account was closed. 
He also asked HSBC to switch his account. 
On 11 June Mr S received a cheque for a little under £26,000 which was the balance of his 
closed current account. 
On 12 June Mr S wrote to HSBC claiming £39,267 for delay, and asking it to explain what he 
had done to cause closure.
On 20 June Mr S wrote to HSBC asking it to set off the balance on his Gold card against his 
breach of contract claim.
On 15 July HSBC phoned to apologise for its mistake and offer £2,000 compensation. Mr S 
refused this. 
On 19 July HSBC wrote to repeat its apology and offer, and tell Mr S he could complain to 
our service. 
On 15 September Mr S emailed about his HSBC Gold card balance not being repaid, 
repeated that this should be set off against his claim for breach of contract and referred to 
the final offer as derisory.
On 29 September Mr S made a GDPR request to HSBC.
On 11 October Mr S emailed HSBC to say it had reopened his current account without his 
consent and against his wishes and was notifying CRAs of non-payment of his Gold card.
On 25 November Mr S complained to our service.
Mr S said from 25 November 2021 to date he had spent innumerable hours answering 
phone calls and letters from HSBC credit control and other items relating to this breach of 
contract.
On 17 September 2022 Mr S said he was notified by a different credit card provider that it 
would not be renewing his card. 
On 30 September Mr S said that his other credit card company confirmed it was refusing to 
replace his credit card because of his credit record. He checked his credit record, and found 
his scores varied from GOOD to POOR. 
On 1 October Mr S said he had lodged Notices of Dispute with the three major CRAs. He 
said that each of those CRAs had refused to amend the data. 
So Mr S said he had done everything he could think of to mitigate the damage caused by 
HSBCs breach of contract and the result was still a ruined credit rating. He said HSBC was 
the guilty party and had made no attempt to settle other than offering £2,000 without any 
justification other than internal notes. Those said HSBC wouldnt pay the sum Mr S 
suggested, as it wouldnt agree that inconvenience/distress equivalent to higher-than-
average annual full time salary and also that £2k should be reasonable offer, at maximum 
of FOS guidance for substantial distress/inconvenience.
Mr S told us about his career, and gave his annual income, which I wont set out here. Mr S said that HSBC had refused to negotiate with him, and told him to complain to our 
service if he didnt want to accept its offer of £2,000. And he said HSBC had then knowingly 
and deliberately persisted in the destruction of his credit rating by reporting non-payment to 
CRAs, without explaining payment was being withheld pending our services decision.
Mr S said it was clear from the above that our service and HSBC have some form of 
agreement whereby HSBC can offer a scale compensation to the victims of their 
misdemeanours and our service will back up that offer. He said this may well be a simple 
time and money saving arrangement for minor cases but it was grossly unfair to the injured 
party in his case and probably many others.
Id like to pause at this stage to refute any suggestion that theres some sort of deal with 
HSBC on the levels of compensation it should offer. Rather, our service provides publicly 
available information on our approach to monetary awards, which is set out in detail on our 
website. Although nothing turns on this, it seems likely that this web page is what HSBC 
refers to in its internal notes. And indeed, I would expect HSBC to be familiar with this 
approach, both because it is a respondent in complaints brought to us, and also because 
this is publicly available information. 
It's my view that this offer by HSBC was not an ungenerous one, and it is not less than our 
service would otherwise have awarded in this case. 
Mr S said that HSBC claiming that it closed his account was a very serious and damaging 
offence. He said this resulted in many defaults for the first time in his life. 
I note that on 2 October, when Mr S wrote to us to say that his other credit card would no 
longer be renewed, he told us that all my credit payments  have been made on time 
except for the Gold card, which was paid on time until May 2021. So it doesnt seem likely 
that HSBCs actions have resulted in any actual defaults. And I note that on 19 July, HSBC 
accepted responsibility for the mistake in closing Mr Ss account, and gave him written proof 
of this he could use in addressing any other negative markers on his credit file. Thats what I 
would expect HSBC to do, to address any potential missed payments from Mr Ss account.
Mr S said that more recently, he had the embarrassment of being refused entrance to a 
visitor attraction for non-payment of an HSBC annual subscription. I note that whether this 
subscription ought to have been paid by HSBC is a fresh complaint point, which HSBC 
hasnt yet had the chance to respond to. So I wont consider that here.
Mr S said he could take court action, but he noted that this would take a long time. He 
thought HSBC could have minimised the damage to him. He said that HSBC deprived him 
and benefitted itself by having the use of the balance of his account from 24 May 2021 to 12 
June 2021 because it used a very slow method of sending the funds.
HSBC sent Mr S a cheque on 26 May. Im not clear why this took so very long to reach Mr S, 
but Ive not seen anything to suggest this was HSBCs fault, so I dont think it delayed in 
sending him his money. As Mr S then opened another account, and told us this was opened 
to cash HSBCs cheque, it seems likely that HSBC wasnt aware of another way it could pay 
Mr S this money. So I dont think HSBC made a mistake in sending Mr S a cheque.
Mr S said hed been told he couldnt switch his HSBC account because it was closed. So he 
said he had to spend many hours trying to sort out the defaults and non-payment of income. 
When I reached my provisional decision, I took into account that Mr S would face a 
considerable amount of work to reinstate payments into and out of his account. Ive explained that I think this is one of the reasons why it was reasonable for HSBC to reopen 
this account, because he would then be able to use the switching service if he wished to.
Mr S said that on 20 June he told HSBC to set off the balance on his Gold card against his 
breach of contract claim. He said that put HSBC on valid notice of the claim for unexplained 
breach of contract. 
Mr S has approached this throughout as a breach of contract claim. Whilst our service is 
required to have regard to the relevant law in reaching a decision, and I have considered Mr 
Ss complaint against that background, I reach my final decision on the basis of what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to ask HSBC to pay what Mr S is asking just because he gave it prompt notice of 
his intention to make such a claim.
Mr S said HSBC provided a written response to his complaint in 19 July, reopened his 
current account without his permission on the same day, and started the credit file reporting 
the same day. He said HSBCs credit reporting had succeeded in destroying his credit 
record despite all his efforts.
I explained in my provisional decision why I thought Mr Ss credit file should be cleared until 
the end of September. But after this, I think Mr S should have paid his card. Ive not seen 
anything to make me think that Mr S was unable to do so. So I dont think HSBC is 
responsible for the sizeable change in his credit score that Mr S has told us about, or the 
wider consequences of that.
Mr S wanted me to reconsider so we could reach a settlement. He thought it would be 
appropriate for me to propose that HSBC instruct CRAs to remove all references to non- 
payment of the Gold Card. He said the aim of the £300 per lost credit rating point was to 
provide an incentive for HSBC to restore his credit rating. And he said I should propose that 
HSBC pay reasonable compensation for serious breach of contract. He said that the limit on 
our services possible awards was £355,000 not £2,000 which he said HSBC was trying to 
bully him into accepting. And he said I could also require him to pay the Gold Card balance 
of £6,223.03 on completion of the settlement.
Mr S said he would be happy to discuss this proposal with our service if we would like to 
contact him to try to reach agreement. I thank Mr S for this offer, but I dont think that would 
assist at this stage. 
It may perhaps help if I explain that our service isnt seeking to negotiate a settlement here 
which can be agreed by both sides. Ive explained that its my role to provide what I consider 
to be a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ss complaint. However, as an independent and 
impartial service, we will not always provide exactly the outcome that people want. And 
unfortunately, as I have not changed my mind in this case, it seems likely that Mr S will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I still think that HSBC only has to make the limited 
amendments to Mr Ss credit file that I set out in my provisional decision, and to pay Mr S 
£2,000 in compensation.
I have considered Mr Ss complaint and his further representations in detail. And Ive set out 
responses to Mr Ss most recent points above, where I consider that my position isnt 
already clear from the provisional decision I sent Mr S. And in conclusion, although I 
understand that Mr S will be disappointed, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the 
decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must ensure, insofar as it is able to do so, that 
any negative markers on Mr Ss credit file for his Gold card, covering payments missed from 
July until the end of September 2021, shall be removed. And HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay 
Mr S £2,000 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman