DRN-3069058
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the way Great Lakes Insurance SE handled their request for 
a refund of their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W purchased an annual multi-trip insurance policy, covering them from holidays 
taken worldwide. The agreed start date of the policy was 1 February 2020, with the end date 
being 31 January 2021. The policy provided Mr and Mrs W with cover for any trips within this 
period of time, for a duration of 31 days at a time. The premium charged to Mr and Mrs W for 
the cover was £275.27 and included cover for a total of 2 medical conditions.
On 26 September 2020 Mr and Mrs W contacted Great Lakes, via email. They explained the 
cruise company they had a trip booked with had just contacted them and let them know the 
holiday was cancelled. And so, they asked for a refund of their travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes responded to Mr and Mrs W. It said that it was able to provide Mr and Mrs W 
with a partial refund of the policy  this being £27.53. It noted that this was based on the 
date Mr and Mrs Ws policy started  as well as when Mr and Mrs W contacted Great Lakes 
to cancel the cover. 
Mr and Mrs W responded to this offer and didnt think this was correct. They felt the correct 
refund they should receive was £95.78. They said the policy had cost them 0.75p a day, and 
there was 127 days they werent on cover for, after cancelling the policy.
Great Lakes responded further. It said that customers with a policy that had started between 
1 January 2020, and 16 March 2020 were entitled to a pro-rata refund, if no claim had been 
logged or was pending. But it said this refund wasnt based on the total premium paid, 
divided by the number of days on cover. It said the refund calculation was based on a sliding 
scale, depending on how long Great Lakes had been on risk. Great Lakes said that that 
bearing in mind Mr and Mrs Ws policy started on 1 February 2020, and was cancelled on 
26 September 2020, the partial refund would in fact be £41.29.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with Great Lakes position on the matter. And so, they referred their 
complaint to this service, for an independent review. 
Our adjudicator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They set out 
the details of the relevant cancellation rights  and how they applied in this case. They 
explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to 
bear a risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The adjudicator 
said this meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums in relation to the 
risk it covered during that time.
The adjudicator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed, because cover under the policy started on 1 February 2020, and 
the policy covered various risks from that point, until Mr and Mrs W cancelled their policy.
The adjudicator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs W with a pro-rata refund, calculated based on 
the remaining premium from the date Mr and Mrs W first asked for refund, to the end date of 
the policy on 31 January 2021. The adjudicator said this was what Great Lakes had done, in 
offering a £41.29 refund. And so, they didnt consider that Great Lakes needed to do 
anything more.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators opinion. Mr and Mrs W said;
They didnt blame Great Lakes for them not being able to use their policy, this was 
due to the global pandemic, and the restrictions in place in light of this. To comply 
with the relevant restrictions, they couldnt travel;
Because of the above situation, they had paid for the policy, but hadnt had use of it;
During the 14-day cooling off period, they didnt know what was to come in terms of 
the pandemic, and the impact it had on travel, so they couldnt have cancelled their 
policy at that point.
They had every intention of honoring the insurance contract, and were hopeful that 
global circumstances would change, allowing them to travel again and make sure of 
the policy. And they cancelled the policy as soon as it was clear from their cruise 
provider that this wasnt going to be the case.
Because Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our adjudicator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have a right to cancel up to 14 days from the date You receive:
The policy document at the start of Your insurance; 
The renewal documentation for subsequent periods of insurance.
Should You decide to exercise this cancellation right, You will be entitled to a refund of 
premium provided that You have not started a Trip to which the insurance applies and You 
have not made or intend to make a claim.
Following the expiry of Your 14 day cancellation period You continue to have the right to 
cancel Your Policy at any time during its term by contacting Us, but no refund of premium 
will be available. 
For Annual Multi-Trip Policies, the 14 day cancellation period is extended up to the start date 
of Your policy.
Im not upholding this complaint because;I do appreciate Mr and Mrs W didnt know during the 14-day cooling off period, that they 
wouldnt be able to travel. But this doesnt alter the industry rules, guidelines or policy terms. 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mr and Mrs W. 
Its understood that Mr and Mrs W purchased their policy with every intention to go on 
holiday and be covered for the whole policy term. But coronavirus altered their ability to 
travel. So, Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
And in the circumstances of this case, I think its fair for Great Lakes to provide a pro-rata 
refund, from 26 September 2020 to the end date of the policy. Despite the above rules, 
guidelines and policy terms.
Mr and Mrs W were insured from 1 February 2020, when policy started, until they requested 
a refund on 26 September 2020. This cover was for any number of trips they took, up to 31 
days in duration.
At this point, whether Mr and Mrs W went on any trips or not, Great Lakes were covering the 
risk of a claim occurring. And the premiums charged to them, reflected this. So, Im satisfied 
it is fair and reasonable that Great Lakes dont provide a refund for this period of cover.
Mr and Mrs W cancelled their policy on 26 September 2020. Because of the coronavirus 
pandemic, Mr and Mrs W were no longer travelling, and they hadnt made any claim under 
their insurance policy either. So, Great Lakes were no longer insuring any risk under the 
policy from that point. As Great Lakes were no longer bearing any risk under the policy from 
that point  and as the circumstances of coronavirus being unique and unprecedented, I do 
think it is fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs W with a pro-rata 
refund, from 26 September 2020, until the date the policy was due to end, on 31 January 
October 2021. And as this is what is has offered to do, Im satisfied this is fair.
Ive thought about the figure Great Lakes has agreed to refund Mr and Mrs W  which is 
£41.29. Great Lakes has provided information to show that it gets varying percentages of 
claims across different months of an annual multi-trip policy. And so, when calculating the 
pro-rata refund for Mr and Mrs W, it has taken this into account. 
It has offered a refund of 5% of the premium on that basis. This recognises that Mr and Mrs 
Ws policy was in force, and Great Lakes were on risk until 26 September 2020, but not for 
the remainder of the policy. 
This approach doesnt treat Mr and Mrs W unfairly or any differently to customers in similar 
circumstances to theirs. And so, Im satisfied the refund amount of £41.29 is fair. And I wont 
be asking Great Lakes to increase this refund.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the offer to refund Mr and Mrs W 
£41.29 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2021.
 Rachel Woods
Ombudsman