DRN-3997786
The complaint
Mr L complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim he made under section 75 
and section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system.
Mr L is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In October 2018, Mr L purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr L financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano that was 
repayable over ten years.
In August 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ls behalf under section 75 and section 140 of 
the Act to Ikano. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr L to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The Feed-In Tariff (FIT) income would cover the monthly loan repayment, so Mr s 
monthly overheads would reduce. 
He would save money on his energy bills. 
The value of his property would increase. 
The CMC also said Ikanos relationship with Mr L was unfair on him because it and the 
supplier had not done what they shouldve when selling the loan agreement and Ikano paid 
commission to the supplier. 
Ikano rejected the claim. It said the sales documents made clear the system wasnt self-
funding on a monthly basis, it and the supplier had done what they were supposed to when 
selling the credit agreement and no commission had been paid to the supplier. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into what had happened. They didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. 
The CMC didnt agree with this. It provided a statement from Mr L which largely reiterated 
the points made in the original claim
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 56 says that any negotiations between Mr L and the supplier are deemed to have 
been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. This 
means that Mr L could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach 
of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have claimed against the supplier.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140 allows the courts to decide if a relationship between a creditor and debtor is 
unfair on the debtor. In doing so the court can look at what happened with related 
agreements, such as the sale of solar panels purchased with a point-of-sale loan.
Ikano also had a duty to treat Mr L fairly when responding to his claim. 
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement and estimated returns document.
The estimated returns document which sets out how much electricity the system is expected 
to generate, the estimated FIT income and electricity savings in year one. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process, because it appears was completed and signed 
during the sales meeting. It is therefore relevant, alongside Mr Ls recollection of the sale, 
when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. Im 
satisfied that Mr L was given these figures, since he signed the credit agreement and has 
confirmed this in his statement. So, I think he understood what he would pay overall and on 
a monthly basis.
Estimated returns
The estimated returns document shows the total combined FIT income and electricity 
savings in the first year was expected to be £302.57. This is considerably less than the 
annual loan repayment. At £66.46 per month, that was £797.52 per year. 
So, I think it is unlikely that Mr L was told the benefits (whether just the FIT income or the 
combined income and savings) would cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Energy bills would reduce
The supplier told Mr L he could save on his energy bills. I dont think this was a 
misrepresentation. The solar panels generate electricity which Mr L can used as it is generated. If he uses that energy, he does not have to buy an equivalent amount from his 
electricity supplier. So, what he spends on his energy bills will be less than it wouldve been 
had he not purchased solar panels. 
I appreciate that Mr L says he hasnt noticed any savings. But that may be down to how he 
uses energy in his home, or due to changes in the price of electricity. Either way, that is 
beyond the control of the supplier. 
Value of Mr Ls property would increase
I dont think this was a misrepresentation. When selling the property, it is for Mr L to set the 
asking price. And he can take into account the value of the solar panel system when doing 
so.
S140 unfair relationship
Im not persuaded that Ikanos relationship with Mr L was unfair on him. The relevant 
information about the credit agreement was provided to Mr L before he entered into the 
agreement. And Ikano paid no commission to the supplier in relation to Mr Ls credit 
agreement. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr L 
to enter into the contract for the system. Im not persuaded that the relationship between 
Ikano and Mr L was unfair on him. So, I think Ikano treated Mr L fairly when it responded to 
his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman