DRN-2120589
The complaint
 Mr W is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard declined his section 75 
claim. 
What happened
 In October 2017 Mr W purchased a growing kit from a supplier and paid using his 
Barclaycard credit card.  Mr W says he was expecting delivery in mid-2018 but due to delays 
he eventually cancelled the order in September 2019. Mr W says the merchant agreed to 
refund him, but this never happened. The merchant subsequently ceased trading.
Mr W made a section 25 claim. Barclaycard said it was unable to assist in the absence of 
any documentary evidence confirming that a refund was due on cancellation. It said that 
because the merchant was willing to process a refund, it was unable to raise a dispute. It 
also said that the billing address provided by Mr W on the invoice for the order showed a 
limited company, and that because it was a business transaction, a section 75 claim wasnt 
valid.
Mr W wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he was satisfied that Mr W hadnt received 
what he had ordered and said it was unfair for Barclaycard to reply on the merchants 
statement that it would process a refund, because the merchant had been unresponsive, 
making a refund unlikely. In relation to the billing address, the investigator said he didnt 
think this meant the section 75 claim shouldnt succeed, because the item ordered was 
unrelated to the business and the business address had only been used for delivery 
purposes. The investigator concluded that Barclaycard should, issue a full refund. 
Barclaycard didnt agree. It said the confirmation of purchase was addressed to Mr Ws 
limited company at its registered address, which meant that the contract was between the 
limited company and the merchant. It said that although Mr W had paid for the goods using 
his credit card, this did not establish a  Debtor-Creditor-Supplier (DCS) relationship for the 
purposes of section 75.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have to decide what, if anything, Barclaycard should do to resolve Mr Ws complaint. To do 
that, I have to decide what is fair and reasonable, having regard to  amongst other things  
any relevant law. In this case, relevant law includes section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA).
Section 75 of the CCA says that in certain circumstances the credit card holder has an equal 
right to claim against the credit card provider if theres either a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier under certain conditions. One of these conditions is that 
there must be a direct relationship between the debtor the creditor and the supplier.
Theres no real dispute here that theres been a breach of contract by the supplier. The 
goods havent been delivered to Mr W and he hasnt received a refund. Although 
Barclaycard initially resisted the claim on the basis that the supplier said it would issue a 
refund, I think its clear from the time elapsed and the lack of response from the supplier that 
a refund is very unlikely.
The nub of this complaint is whether the DCS relationship is established.
Barclaycard says that because the invoice for the goods was addressed to the limited 
company of which Mr w is a director, the debtor (for DCS purposes) is the limited company 
and not Mr W. It says that because Mr W isnt a party to the contract, he cant bring a claim 
under section 75.
Mr W says he used his personal credit card with Barclaycard to make the purchase and that 
all correspondence between him and the merchant was via his personal email address. Hes 
explained that he provided his business address for delivery purposes only because theres 
no one at home to take deliveries during the day. 
For the purposes of section 75, not every use of a credit card will make a credit card provider 
liable for a breach of contract by the supplier. I agree with Barclaycard that a DCS 
relationship must be established for a section 75 claim to succeed.
However, in the context of a purchase by an individual using a personal credit card to buy 
goods which arent purchased for the purposes of a business, even though the business 
address appears on the invoice for goods, the individual may, in certain circumstances, be 
the buyer (or debtor) for the purposes of DCS.
In this case, the item purchased was a seed growing kit. The purchase was made by Mr W 
using his personal credit card. It doesnt appear to be disputed that Mr W placed the order. 
Mr W has provided a plausible explanation for why he gave his business address as the 
delivery address.
Ive taken into account the comments made by Barclaycard about previous purchases made 
by Mr W on his personal credit card. However, Im not persuaded that these purchases were 
for business purchases, or that they establish the general proposition that Mr W was in the 
habit of using his personal credit card for business transactions. Im not persuaded, given 
the nature of Mr Ws business, that a seed growing kit is related to or for use by Mr Ws 
business.
Putting things right
Taking all the circumstances into account, Im satisfied that Mr W was the purchaser of the 
goods, in his own right and not acting on behalf of his business. Im of the view that Mr W 
was the contracting party for the purposes of the DCS relationship. In my view, this isnt 
displaced by the fact that Mr Ws business address appears on the invoice. I find that the 
necessary DCS relationship was present and that Barclaycard should accept and pay Mr 
Ws claim under section 75.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard must issue a full refund and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman