DRN-4252390
The complaint
Mr S says that after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy, West Bay Insurance Plc 
provided poor service and didnt ensure the repairs on his van were dealt with properly.
What happened
The front of the drivers side on Mr Ss van was damaged in a non-fault incident in 
September 2022. West Bays repairer (garage A) dealt with most of the damage, but it 
didnt think an oil leak Mr S had pointed out was related to the accident. West Bays engineer 
agreed with garage A that the leak was the result of wear and tear. Mr S and his mechanic 
said wear and tear was present, but the incident had accelerated it, leading to the leak.
When Mr S was driving the van home after the repairs, some trim fitted around the 
windscreen fell off. Garage A replaced it three times then used an adhesive (as well as clips) 
to keep it in place. Mr S said that was wrong, as if the windscreen needed replacing at some 
point, the use of the adhesive would cause problems and result in additional costs. 
Mr S also said the leak had worsened over time, yet West Bays engineer took four weeks to 
tell him to stop driving the van. He said that delay had caused further damage and that his 
mechanic thought a new engine and gearbox were needed. Mr S also said hed spent a 
huge amount of time dealing with West Bay and garage A about the claim  including having 
to return the van four times for the trim to be fixed, so hed lost income. 
West Bay didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said garage A had told him from the start that it 
didnt think the leak was accident related  but that as he disagreed, West Bay had arranged 
for the van to be reinspected. Garage A didnt change its view, and when West Bays senior 
engineer reviewed the images it had taken of the engine, he agreed with garage A. In 
relation to the trim, West Bay said garage A would rectify it as necessary.
One of our investigators said she didnt think Mr S had shown the leak was accident related, 
but she thought West bay should pay him £350 for inconvenience and cover the cost of a 
lasting trim repair by Mr Ss garage. West Bay offered to cover the cost of any future 
problems arising from the trims fitting, so the investigator then said it need only pay the 
£350 compensation. Mr S asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The leak
I can see from the claims notes that garage A described the impact of the accident on the 
van as light, and I think the extent of the damage that was repaired (and its cost) reflects 
that fact. Mr S says when he first collected the van from the garage, it said there was no 
leak. The claims notes say the garage told him it had found some old leaks that werent 
related to the accident. Either way, Mr S was made aware that the leak as reported by him 
was very unlikely to be repaired by West Bay. 
Following the reinspection, West Bays senior engineer said it wasnt surprising there was 
evidence of several old leaks, given the vans age and very high mileage. He thought it was 
a clear-cut case of wear and tear. In his opinion, the images showed that oil had been 
leaking for some time, and dispersed oil had blown back to onto the vans underside, picking 
up dirt over time. Mr S said his mechanic thought the images were inconclusive, so Mr S 
thought West Bays engineer should have attended the reinspection. But its common 
practice for engineers to carry out desktop assessments and to attend in person only when 
that isnt possible or appropriate. I dont think the engineer would have given an opinion 
unless he thought there was sufficient evidence available to him to support it. I dont think his 
attendance at the reinspection is likely to have made a difference. 
If Mr S thinks the accident caused the leak, its for him to show thats more likely than not to 
have been the case. I can see why West Bay doesnt think hes done so. He says there was 
no leak before the accident and no evidence of it when the van was serviced in June 2022.  
But he and his mechanic accept that wear and tear was present. I think it was reasonable for 
West Bay to conclude that the root cause of the leak was wear and tear. I think it has shown 
that there was some leakage of oil before the accident. And a seal thats about to fail can do 
so at any time. I think its possible that a seal that had started to fail could have been 
affected by an impact - but in my opinion, the cause of the leak would still be wear and tear.  
At the end of October 2022, Mr Ss broker told West Bay Mr S was now having to add a litre 
of oil to the engine every three days as the leak was much worse. On 10 November 2022 
West Bays engineer told Mr S not to drive the van. Mr S says he should have been told that 
weeks earlier and that the delay may have led to the engine being damaged further. The 
engineers response was that West Bay wasnt aware weeks earlier that the leak had 
worsened. I think the engineer could have called Mr S a few days earlier (especially as the 
broker had called again to say smoke was starting to appear). But I also think Mr S had a 
duty to mitigate the situation. If he was alarmed by the increase in the loss of oil and feared it 
might cause serious damage to the engine, he could have had it repaired. I think many 
consumers in his position would have done so. The cost of the repair wasnt likely to be 
refunded by West Bay, but it would have avoided further, much more expensive damage.
The trim
Mr Ss mechanic thinks the use of the adhesive will cause future problems. And Mr S 
provided an opinion from a garages after-sales manager who shares that view. He said if 
the windscreen ever has to be replaced, the trim will have to be destroyed, rather than 
unclipped, in line with the manufacturers original design and standard. So Mr S would have 
to pay for a new trim, plus any associated costs for the damage caused when removing it.
Garage A tried several times to attach the trim with clips, but it didnt work, so I dont think it 
was unreasonable for it to try something different. Mr S suggested recently that the frame 
the trim is fitted to may have become twisted in the accident (and that the duct tape garage 
A used has caused damage to the paintwork). But these issues werent raised with West 
Bay as part of his original complaint, so it hasnt had the chance to investigate and comment 
on them. That means they would have to be part of a new complaint to West Bay. 
Meanwhile, West Bay says the issue of the adhesive causing problems should the 
windscreen have to be replaced is speculative. I think thats a fair point. Theres no certainty 
that it will cause a problem, and theres no problem currently. The windscreen may not have 
to be replaced whilst Mr S owns the van. And West Bay has confirmed in correspondence 
with us that should an issue with the trim arise in the future, it will deal with it. Mr S thinks 
that wont happen, as hes now with a new insurer. But the issue will remain one for West Bay to resolve if necessary, as its part of Mr Ss established claim and his complaint. So if 
West Bay doesnt ensure its dealt with, Mr S can complain to it - and if necessary, to us. 
Time and inconvenience  
Mr S estimates that he lost several days pay chasing West Bay and returning the van to 
garage A. Theres always some inconvenience to a consumer if they make a claim. If a 
dispute arises, its inevitable that a consumer will spend more time than usual dealing with 
the claim, as a consequence of the dispute. So unless an insurer caused or delayed the 
dispute unreasonably, I dont think it should have to pay for all the time a consumer spent on 
it. Mr S hasnt provided evidence of the time spent on the claim (or how he reached his 
estimate) anyway. I can see from the claims notes that his broker called West Bay many 
times - and Mr S no doubt instructed the broker. But from what Ive seen, the calls didnt take 
up hours. Mr S shouldnt have had to return the van to garage A, although it seems the trips 
were reasonably brief, and it was possible for him to work before and after them. But Mr S 
was definitely inconvenienced and should be fairly compensated for that.
In summary
In my opinion, £350 is an adequate sum to reflect the effect of West Bays poor service on 
Mr S. As he wasnt at fault for the accident, it must be galling for him to be out of pocket. I 
know he firmly believes that West Bay has let him down, and that as a result hes had to 
spend a protracted period arguing about various issues, which has taken up a lot of his time 
and energy. I sympathise with Mr S, and I have no doubt hes found the situation stressful. 
But I dont think West Bay acted unreasonably in terms of the oil leak. It will cover any future 
expense linked to the trims fitting. And Mr S can raise any new issues he has with West Bay 
for it to consider as a separate complaint. Based on all the information Ive seen, I dont think 
it would be fair and reasonable to require West Bay to pay compensation beyond £350.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require West Bay Insurance Plc to pay 
Mr S £350 for inconvenience. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I must  
ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman