DRN-1781737
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) has unfairly said it wont meet 
a claim he made for a wall he says was damaged by a storm.
What happened
Mr S owns a house which is let to tenants. He contacted Great Lakes to say his tenants had 
reported extensive damage to a wall following a storm. Great lakes said it would look at Mr 
Ss claim and sent a surveyor to look at the damage.
The surveyor said there were signs that the wall wasnt well designed  in particular it wasnt 
designed to carry a fence that had been attached to the top of the wall. He said the way the 
wall was constructed  one brick this in most places, and mortar damage that looked old 
suggested the age of the wall and the weight of the fence had combined to bring down the 
wall  but the storm had only highlighted inherent weaknesses.
Mr S didnt agree and pointed out that hed now found out that a trampoline of some sort had 
blown into the wall and brought it down.
Great Lakes didnt change its stance so Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
thought Great Lakes had reasonably said it wouldnt meet the claim. Mr S remains unhappy 
about this so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
For me to say that claim for storm damage should be met I need to know the answers to 
three questions. The first is whether there was a storm at the time  and here theres no 
dispute about this. The second is whether the damage is typical of storm damage. Walls are 
much less likely to be damaged by a storm than, say a fence. But its not impossible for this 
sort of damage in storm conditions. Im satisfied the first two questions have been answered 
positively.
The third question  and often the most contentious, as is the case here  is whether the 
damage was caused by this particular storm. Insurers often appoint surveyors experienced 
in this type of work to look at the damage, and thats what Great Lakes did. I think its a fair 
thing to do  and its reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the report when deciding to meet 
the claim.
This report pointed out that part of the wall that collapsed had had a fence attached to the 
top, although it hadnt originally been designed to take the added weight. And the surveyor 
also pointed out that there were signs of damage  cracks in the mortar and some 
misaligned bricks  in photos taken before the storm. He thought the storm had simply 
highlighted existing problems in a poorly designed wall.
Mr S then told Great lakes hed discovered that a trampoline had hit the wall and caused the 
damage. Unfortunately there isnt any evidence  such as a photo  of this. But even if that 
had happened (and Im not doubting Mr S was told that this did happen) the damage to the 
wall is much more extensive than Id expect from one point of impact if the wall had been in 
good condition.
Mr S also told Great lakes that walls nearby had suffered the same fate as his  but the 
surveyor couldnt find these, so I cant give that point much weight.
Taking everything into account, I think Great Lakes acted reasonably when it said it wouldnt 
meet Mr Ss claim. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020. 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman