DRN-2826791
The complaint
Mrs E complains that One Insurance Limited (One) has declined her home insurance claim 
for accidental damage to her retaining wall. And that it didnt handle her claim well.
 
What happened
In February 2020, Mrs E found a crack in a retaining wall in her garden. So she made a 
claim under her home insurance policy with One. 
Initially One declined the claim for accidental damage as it felt badgers digging setts had 
caused the problem. Mrs E complained. One then decided to accept the claim for accidental 
damage in March 2020. In its final response letter One noted that it had only agreed to cover 
any damage to the wall and not any issues with the badgers sett (burrow), this would need 
to be dealt with outside your policy. 
Due to the Covid-19 situation, One said it wasnt possible to send an engineer out until June 
2020. When theyd assessed the damage, they felt a structural survey was needed. 
Surveyors attended the property in late July 2020. Their August 2020 report gave several 
reasons to reject the claim for One to consider. One was told that the damage had occurred 
gradually, rather than suddenly.
One shared the report with senior management. It considered whether the claim could be 
dealt with under the Subsidence section of the policy. Mrs E was unhappy with how long 
her claim was taking to resolve and complained to the Managing Director.
In October 2020, One concluded that the claim couldnt be considered under the 
Subsidence section of the policy. So it told Mrs E it was unable to consider the claim. It 
said it couldnt deem the damage to be accidental as it hadnt happened suddenly. It offered 
£300 and an apology for previously stating that the damage would be covered under the 
policy.
Unhappy, Mrs E complained to this service. Our investigator felt that One hadnt acted 
unfairly when itd declined to cover the claim for accidental damage. But she thought One 
had delayed the claim and had given Mrs E miss-information. She also felt that Mrs E hadnt 
been able to use her garden during the Covid-19 lockdown due to the unsafe wall. And that 
this had had a significant impact on her wellbeing, especially considering she lives alone. So 
she felt One should pay Mrs E £800 for the distress and inconvenience itd caused her.
Mrs E didnt agree. She felt that One was at least partly responsible for the extensive 
damage to her wall, given the delays to her claim. One didnt agree. It felt the £300 
compensation itd offered was fair and that £800 was too much.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold the complaint about the claim handling. But 
unfortunately Im unable to uphold the complaint about the declined claim. Ill explain why.
The declined claim
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. If it was then 
insurance policies would be prohibitively expensive. Only damage caused by one of the 
insured perils (or, events) listed in the policy  fire, theft, escape of water, accidental damage 
etc.  is covered. If a policyholder can show that the damage he or she is claiming for is 
caused by one of the policy perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless the insurer can 
rely one of the policy exclusions to defeat it. If the insurer wishes to rely on a policy exclusion 
it is its responsibility to prove it can be successfully applied to defeat the claim.
Mrs E felt her claim had been accepted after Ones March 2020 final response letter. Im not 
surprised based on the wording of that letter. But One updated that decision after seeing the 
surveyors report. When it considered the claim against the policy terms it decided that one 
of the specific exclusions could be applied in order to defeat it. 
I can see that under the Buildings - accidental damage section it sets out what is 
specifically not covered under this particular peril. This includes: damage resulting from .. 
other gradual causes. So, I think its clear that damage resulting from gradual causes  as 
reported by the surveyor - isnt covered by the policy.
Having ruled out cover under the Buildings - accidental damage section, Id expect One to 
check whether the claim could be covered under another peril. It did this when it considered 
Mrs Es claim under the Subsidence section of her policy. But it wasnt able to consider the 
claim under the subsidence peril as theres an exclusion for any damage where the main 
part of the property isnt also affected, as is the case here.
I know this will be disappointing to Mrs E, but taking all the circumstances into account, I 
dont think that One treated her unfairly in the way it applied the policy terms to her claim to 
decline it.
Ill now look at the time it took One to decline the claim after it received the surveyors report.
Time taken to decline the claim after receiving the surveyors report
Mrs E has told this service that the estimated repair costs for her wall have increased as 
time has gone on. Im very sorry to hear this. She holds One responsible for some of the 
increased costs. She feels that it shouldve told her sooner that it wasnt going to cover her 
claim. 
Ive considered this. One received the surveyors report in August 2020 and informed Mrs E 
that it was no longer going to cover her claim in October 2020. But I can see that in the 
meantime the claim was being considered by senior management. They were looking to see 
if they could cover it under other aspects of the policy. As the claim had initially been 
declined and then incorrectly accepted under accidental damage, I can understand why 
One were carefully considering all options before coming to a decision. So Im not 
persuaded that One did anything wrong here.
Ill now look at the claim handling aspect of this complaint.
Claim handling
Ones March 2020 final response letter suggested that Mrs Es claim would be covered in 
full. So Mrs E reasonably expected at that point that this would be the case. It wouldve been much more accurate for One to have stated that it was prepared to consider the claim, but in 
order to do that it needed expert analysis of the damage.
One didnt give Mrs E any idea that her claim wouldnt be covered. Progress on her claim 
seemed slow so she eventually felt that she had to contact the managing director. She said: 
At no time was I told that they may change their mind subject to the findings from either the 
builder or surveyor. In fact I was asked to sign a form from the time they agreed my claim 
and I was happy with the outcome. Understandably that reinforces my confidence that their 
decision was final and my problem with the wall would be covered by my insurance. 
So she waited seven months between March 2020 and October 2020 expecting One to 
honour her claim, as it said it would. 
From what Ive seen, One wasnt as proactive as it couldve been in progressing the claim. It 
took longer than I would expect to get the surveyor to attend the property. I appreciate that at 
the time only emergency work was being carried out due to Covid-19, but Mrs Es issues 
were becoming more of an emergency as time went on.
Looking at the contact notes, Im not persuaded One did everything it could to keep Mrs E 
updated. 
 
Mrs E has told us how badly not being able to use her garden during summer 2020 affected 
her. One has already acknowledged the miss-information it gave Mrs E and offered £300 
compensation. I also consider that One didnt keep Mrs E as well informed as it couldve 
during the course of her claim. And the claim couldve been progressed more quickly. Taking 
all these things together, I agree with our investigator that £800 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
 
Putting things right
One Insurance Limited should pay Mrs E £800 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require One Insurance Limited to pay Mrs E £800 for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused her during the claim. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman