DRN-3094746
The complaint
Mr L complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr L took out a single loan from TFS as follows:  
Date Amount Term 
(months)Monthly 
RepaymentAPR Total repayable
31/07/2017 £10,000 48 £384.17 39.9% £18,440.16
Mr L brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with TFS. 
In summary, Mr L didnt think that TFS had carried out effective affordability assessments or, 
had it done so, that it wouldve lent to him. Mr L told us that this loan had resulted in financial 
hardship and had knock on effects on his relationships with friends and family. 
  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She upheld the complaint and set 
out detailed directions indicating what TFS needed to do to put things right. 
TFS disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said that it had used the loan money to 
directly settle other debt before sending the remaining balance of the loan (around £308) to 
Mr L. It also disagreed with what our investigator had said about Mr Ls payment record on a 
loan that showed hed had some payment problems over the last three months. It highlighted 
the fact that Mr Ls credit report didnt show any defaults or county court judgements that 
wouldve flagged potential financial difficulty. All in all, TFS didnt agree that it had seen any 
evidence to suggest it had approved the loan unfairly. 
So this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan 
repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to keep in mind that when working 
out if a loan looks likely to be affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed 
approach and think carefully about the impact of the lending on the customer. The lending 
decision shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender of not getting its money 
back.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information TFS relied 
on when it decided to lend to Mr L. 
TFS asked Mr L about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks - and it sent 
this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that TFS relied on when it agreed 
to provide this loan to Mr L. 
TFS recorded Mr Ls income as £2,750 per month  which reflected what it saw on his most 
recent payslip. 
When looking at what he could afford, TFS asked Mr L about his regular expenditure and 
allowing for his credit costs after debt consolidation, it worked out that Mr L should still have 
around £14 in disposable income after paying his TFS loan available to cover other 
unexpected costs arising. 
So TFS felt this loan was affordable for Mr L.
I agree with our investigator that the checks werent proportionate bearing in mind the loan 
term and the significant amount Mr L was borrowing. But this isnt the reason why Im 
upholding the complaint so I dont need to say any more about this. 
Like our investigator, I dont think that TFS properly took into account the information it was 
able to see on the credit checks it carried out when thinking about whether Mr L would be 
able to repay this loan in a way that was sustainable. And, as a result, I think the lending 
decision it made was unfair, based on the information it had in front of it. 
I think that TFS could see from its credit checks that Mr L had taken out five unsecured loans 
since March 2016  the majority of these in the last nine months running up to this loan 
application, including the most recent taken out just the month before. He also had an 
outstanding pay day loan taken out the previous month and a credit card with an outstanding 
balance of £1,245 that was effectively up to its account limit.
In addition, Mr L had a hire purchase loan with more than £27,000 owing. This cost him £477 
per month and as hed only just taken it out a few months earlier it was due to run for the 
whole of the period that Mr L expected to be paying his TFS loan .I think all this information painted a picture of someone struggling to manage money 
problems effectively and I've taken into account that TFS said the main purpose of the loan 
was to consolidate some of that debt  and that it took direct action to ensure payment was 
made to settle the loans it discussed with Mr L.
But this doesnt affect my view overall that TFS didnt make a fair lending decision.
I dont think using this loan to repay existing debt was enough to give TFS sufficient reason 
to think this wouldve improved Mr Ls overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and 
sustainable improvement in his financial situation, given his outstanding indebtedness 
overall. And based on all the information TFS had gathered, I dont think it was reasonably 
able to say that the loan was likely to be sustainable affordable for Mr L.
Even after the debt consolidation that TFS arranged, Mr L was still committed to make 
monthly repayments of £314 on a bank loan, £477 on his hire purchase agreement and at 
least the minimum payment due on his credit card. These payments alone meant that 
servicing his existing debt would still cost Mr L more than £800 and on top of this he would 
need to pay his new TFS loan monthly repayment of £384.17 along with other non-
consolidated borrowing that he would also still have to repay. 
Our investigator worked out that this would mean Mr L would need to pay such a significant 
proportion of his take home pay servicing his debt that this wasnt likely to be sustainably 
affordable  and I agree. As far as I can see, he needed to pay well over half his income just 
on covering his credit commitments  I dont think that was a viable financial situation for 
Mr L, especially bearing in mind the four year loan term.
I also think that the investigator was right to point out that leaving Mr L with disposable 
income of £13.65, which is what the income and expenditure assessment that TFS carried 
out appears to show, was a further indication that he most likely had insufficient money to be 
able to repay its loan in a sustainable way over the loan term. This amount was unlikely to 
be enough to allow for any variation in Mr Ls normal monthly income or expenses - and it 
wasnt enough to allow him to make any meaningful inroads into his credit card debt for 
instance by making repayments over and above the contractual minimum required, which he 
would need to do if he wanted to clear that debt within a reasonable period. 
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account that TFS said Mr Ls credit file showed he 
was one payment down over a three-month period  and the credit report didnt show any 
defaults or county court judgements. But Ive explained why I think TFS shouldve realised 
that this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr L and Ive concluded that. 
based on the information it could already see, TFS shouldnt have lent to him. 
So for all these reasons, Im upholding this complaint.  
Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that TFS should pay any additional redress. Mr Ls 
representative hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 
TFS acted unfairly towards Mr L in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional 
redress. And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr L to repay the principal amount that he 
borrowed, because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has been charged extra for a loan that should not have been provided to him. In line 
with this Services approach, Mr L shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr L received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mr L made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr L having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr L bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions. 
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ls credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to take the steps set out above to put 
things right for Mr L. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman