DRN-4107653
The complaint
Mr B has complained that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua wont reimburse him money he paid 
for goods he says werent received. 
What happened
Mr B paid £171.20 to an online merchant in October 2022 using his Aqua credit card. He 
disputed the transaction with Aqua the following day because he says the goods werent 
received. A chargeback was initiated. 
Aqua raised the dispute by chargeback a few days later for goods or services not received 
and it credited Mr Bs card with £171.20 while the dispute was considered. The merchant 
challenged the chargeback within 45 days. It sent a picture of someone accepting a package 
from the courier. Aqua says due to a backlog it wasnt until 11 January 2023 that it debited 
Mr Bs account and emailed him the decision. 
Mr B complained and said he wanted Aqua to pursue the chargeback further through whats 
known as pre-arbitration. He also requested Aqua refund the associated interest. Aqua 
apologised for the trouble and upset and credited Mr B £35 in compensation. But it said the 
merchants evidence showing proof of delivery was compelling, so it didnt think it ought to 
have pursued the chargeback further. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr B brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He 
said Aqua should have gone to pre-arbitration. He said he had further evidence that disputes 
the goods arrived. 
Our investigator asked Mr B to supply further evidence. She didnt receive a response, and 
she sent an assessment saying she thought Aqua had done enough to resolve the 
complaint. She didnt make further recommendations. 
Mr B then supplied a colour copy of the couriers proof of delivery and pictures of the front of 
his house. He reiterated the doors were a different colour. Our investigator didnt think the 
photos were very clear. I issued a provisional decision that said:
Im considering whether Aqua has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled Mr Bs 
request for getting his money back. In situations like this, Aqua can consider raising a 
chargeback or assessing a claim under section 75. 
Ive not thought about section 75 because the items Mr B bought do not fall within the 
relevant financial limits for a section 75 claim to be considered.  
The chargeback process provides a way for a card issuer to ask for a payment to be 
refunded in certain circumstances. The chargeback process is subject to rules made by the 
relevant card scheme. Its not a guaranteed way of getting money back. 
While its good practice for a card issuer to attempt to chargeback where certain conditions 
are met and theres some prospect of success, there are grounds or dispute conditions set 
by the relevant card scheme that need to be considered. If these are not met, a chargeback 
is unlikely to succeed. And something going wrong with a merchant wont always lead to a 
successful claim. 
Aqua raised the chargeback but it was defended by the merchant. Mr B wanted it pursued 
further but Aqua thought the merchants evidence was compelling. When I reviewed Aquas 
evidence I also thought it gave a good indication the parcel was delivered to Mr B. But the 
photographic evidence Aqua submitted was in black and white. Mr B has now supplied a 
colour copy of the couriers proof of delivery. And hes also shown us a photo of his front 
door, so Ive been able to compare the two photos. 
Mr B explains he lives on an estate with new build properties. The houses look very similar. 
Having compared the couriers photo to a photo of the front of Mr Bs house, the brickwork 
around the door; the frame; architrave and the entryway to the front door do look the same. 
But Im concerned the door does look a different colour. Mr Bs door is a very light green. 
From a distance it could almost look cream coloured. While I appreciate the clarity of the 
couriers photo isnt great. It looks more like a dark blue or almost black colour. So Im not 
convinced the couriers photo does enough to demonstrate the goods were likely delivered 
to Mr B. 
Im conscious the merchant challenged the chargeback on 29 November 2022, but it wasnt 
until 11 January 2023 Aqua told Mr B it was holding him liable because of that evidence. It 
only had until 13 January 2023 to consider taking the dispute to pre-arbitration. It didnt do 
that because it thought the merchants evidence was compelling. But if it had asked Mr B 
sooner to supply evidence or a counterargument, I think it would have seen there was 
enough doubt in the merchants evidence that proceeding to pre-arbitration would have been 
the right thing to do. Mr B spoke to Aqua on the 11 and 12 January 2023, but he wasnt 
given an opportunity to put forward his case in time. There were service failings from Aqua at 
this point as well which is why it paid Mr B £35. 
I put Mr Bs evidence to Aqua to ask what it would have done, but weve not had a 
substantive response as yet. So Ive thought about what a fair outcome would be. I think 
Aqua should have given Mr B enough of an opportunity to fully respond to the merchants 
evidence. Had it done so I think thered have been grounds for it to pursue the chargeback 
further. Seeing as though the door in the couriers photo looks like a different colour to 
Mr Bs door, I think thered have been a reasonable prospect of success for the chargeback. 
Therefore, to resolve things, Im intending to direct Aqua to rework Mr Bs account as if the 
payment for the goods had not been re-debited. Based on the evidence, I think this is a fair 
outcome in all the circumstances. 
Mr B accepted the provisional decision and said as his account is now closed, he would like 
the refund paid direct. 
Aqua didnt accept the provisional decision. It says the colour picture supplied by Mr B is 
clouded by the light level. Aqua increased the light level on the picture and said it shows the 
door, frame and frame of the window within the door closely match. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank the parties for their responses. Its not a straight-forward case and Im not a 
professional photo editor. But I have to base my decision on what I think is fair and reasonable. And where the evidence is inconclusive, I base that decision on the balance of 
probabilities. 
I can see that by increasing the light level on the picture its easier to see contrast. But Im 
mindful that when looking at photos of the front of the house, the door frame that is facing 
out of the house is very dark and almost black. Its completely different to the colour of the 
door  which is closer to white. And in Aquas lightened photo from the courier the outward 
facing door frame thats almost black looks very similar to the colour of the door  whereas 
Mr Bs door is closer to white. So, while not 100% conclusive, on balance, Im not persuaded 
the lightened photo has done enough to make me change my mind. Ive not seen enough to 
show the couriers delivery photo is of Mr Bs door. Mr B raised his claim straight away and 
has consistently said hes not received the goods. So, on balance, Im not going to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision  for the reasons given above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to 
rework Mr Bs account as if the payment of £171.20 had not been debited on 11 January 
2023. If that puts the account into credit, it should pay 8% simple annual interest on that 
amount from the date the account went into credit to the date of settlement. I understand the 
account is now closed so, if needed, NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should reimburse Mr B 
directly. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman