DRN-3346523
The complaint
Miss A complains the advice St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) gave her to 
invest in an ISA was unsuitable, the fees were high and not properly explained and it wasnt 
made clear she was receiving restricted advice. She has said she lost out because the 
advice persuaded her not to invest in a low-cost tracker fund ISA that performed better. 
Miss A has been represented in her complaint by a relative. When referring below to things 
said by Miss A, I refer to things said by her or on her behalf by her representative. 
What happened
Miss As complaint was considered by one of our investigators. In brief, our investigator 
concluded there was nothing impermissible about the charges made on the ISA and that the 
information SJP gave Miss A outlined these sufficiently and also adequately outlined that 
SJPs advice was restricted advice  meaning products it recommended would come from a 
limited number of providers rather than from across the whole market. 
But our investigator concluded SJPs advice was unsuitable because SJP recommended 
Miss A invest in funds too heavily invested in shares. Our investigator thought half the ISA 
should have been invested instead so as to have less exposure to shares and half ought to 
have been invested so as to be free of investment risk and available for her to fall back on. 
Our investigator thought Miss A wanted capital growth but with only a small risk to capital.
In reaching that view our investigator noted Miss A was investing a sum gifted from relatives 
and, as a student with part-time work and supported by her parents, didnt have earnings to 
cover investment losses. Also our investigator thought there was merit in Miss A retaining 
short-term access to some of the funds, given her lack of income and other means. 
Our investigator thought SJP should look at what Miss A got back when she cashed in her 
ISA and compare this with a fair value for the ISA on the same date - and if the fair value 
were more, pay the difference to her with interest to date. The fair value would be what the 
ISA wouldve been worth if it had produced a return in line with a suitable benchmark return. 
Our investigator referred the parties to guidance on our website about how to calculate this.
SJP responded to say it would be happy to carry out this calculation and make this offer if 
Miss A would accept it. But it said it would base this on a £16,000 net investment. This was 
what was invested into funds held within the ISA from an initial sum of £16842 after taking 
off a 5% (£842) initial charge. According to an investment certificate sent by SJP, £757 of 
this (4.5%) was for the advice and setting up the ISA investment (the other 0.5% was for 
ongoing advice and service for the year). 
Miss A responded to say it still wasnt clear to her what charges she had paid. She said what 
SJP had given her wasnt adequate to explain these, or the restricted advice service, to an 
inexperienced investor like her. Miss A had cashed in the ISA investments and reinvested 
into a tracker fund and she said SJP was to blame for her cashing in the SJP investment. 
Miss A thought SJPs investment advice was unsuitable for someone of her age looking for 
an investment to help her onto the property ladder, given the heavy initial charges and the 
recommendation to leave it in place for five to fifteen years. She thought compensation 
should be based on comparison with a tracker fund because such an investment would have 
been in her best interests and was what she planned to invest in before SJP advised her. 
Miss A also made and referred back to a number of other points shed previously made and 
asked that all this be referred to and considered by an ombudsman.
Our investigators view remained unchanged. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at the same conclusion as our investigator and for similar 
reasons. 
Neither party is suggesting that the ISA investments recommended by SJP were suitable for 
Miss A. SJP hasnt disagreed with the benchmark our investigator proposed. But Miss A 
says the comparison should be with a low-cost tracker fund instead.
Our investigator noted that more than half of each of the two funds SJP recommended was 
invested in shares, calculating the exposure overall to be a little over 60%. Looking at the 
benchmarks and investment remits used by the funds, the figure could go higher still.
SJP has told us the investment advice was initially requested with a view to beating a cash 
ISA return of 2.3% a year over a period of around five years. It was clear the funds might be 
used to fund a property purchase in future if circumstances allowed and that this was the 
main purpose of the investment. With those points in mind, I agree with the investigator that, 
due in particular to the relatively high exposure to shares, the degree of risk posed by the 
funds SJP recommended was unsuitably high for Miss A in her circumstances.
Those circumstances include her lack of previous investment experience and the relatively 
short investment period potentially of five years. Given that the timing of access would be 
driven by the timing of Miss As property purchase rather than by investment conditions, and 
the likelihood of funds being withdrawn as a lump sum, there could also be limited flexibility 
to postpone access to the funds if markets were negative. Also a desire to beat cash returns 
requires exposure to risk assets but that was possible without having as much exposure as 
the funds SJP recommended to Miss A had. 
In light of the above, my view is the benchmark proposed by our investigator represents a 
suitable asset mix for Miss A in her circumstances. I dont know whether the same could be 
said of the tracker fund Miss A has said she wouldve otherwise invested in. But Ive not 
seen enough to make me think it more likely than not Miss A wouldve invested in that fund 
had it not been for SJPs unsuitable advice. I think using a benchmark to assess what loss, if 
any, Miss A has suffered, in accordance with our standard approach, is appropriate here.
Miss A hasnt said she shouldnt have invested but that she shouldve invested differently. I 
agree. SJP documented that although Miss A was a student with plans for some short-term 
vocational part-time work followed by further study, her living costs were met from other 
family resources. So she didnt have a short term need for the funds that wouldve made it 
wrong for her to invest them for the medium term.Miss A thinks SJP fell short in the information it provided about the status of its advice and 
its charges. If SJP was also at fault in those regards, as well as giving unsuitable investment 
advice, the remedy would still be to compare the performance of the resulting unsuitable ISA 
investment with a suitable benchmark. So it wouldnt change the outcome. In view of this I 
will not discuss these points in detail here. Like our investigator, I think it likely SJP did give 
Miss A paperwork that included details of the charges and set out the status of its advice. 
Whether or how this was explained to her in SJPs phone call with her is not so clear.
Our investigator directed SJP to website guidance on calculating the proposed redress. This 
says that a business that fixes its error without charging a fee for doing so wont usually have 
to repay the advice fees. If we say advice fees should be returned, well ask that interest at 
8% a year be added. Where the fee for unsuitable advice was paid by way of commission 
taken through charges, compensation for the investment loss should use the actual amount 
the consumer paid before charges without reducing the return to allow for commission  and 
in that situation no separate calculation is needed to return the fees. 
Here SJP didnt fix the problem  Miss A chose to move from the unsuitable funds herself. 
Whether SJP brought that on, like she says, makes no difference here so I wont discuss it. 
The fees in this case, as Ive outlined above, were paid by way of what was described as an 
initial charge deducted from the funds that were otherwise due to be invested. This wasnt 
commission technically but otherwise matches the situation of fees paid from charges - and 
charges deducted from the investment amount - rather than fees paid as separate costs. In 
any case our investigator didnt propose a separate method for refunding the fees. 
In view of this, and as it is apparent the intention was to invest as much of the gifted funds as 
possible, the guidance flagged by our investigator indicates the benchmark fair value figure 
be arrived at using the sum Miss A had before the initial charge was deducted, rather than 
the net figure SJP has suggested. SJP hasnt told us of any reason why it ought to keep the 
fees Miss A paid it for advice that proved to be faulty. I reject such a view in any event. SJP 
hasnt suggested any other way for Miss A to recover the advice fees or given any reason 
why recovery through the benchmark wouldnt be appropriate, given that Miss A paid for a 
recommendation that was inappropriate and has since moved the funds and reinvested 
elsewhere, incurring whatever reinvestment fees resulted.
Our investigator didnt suggest that SJP pay Miss A anything for distress or inconvenience 
its error may have caused her. So Ive considered this. I note her complaint was raised by 
her representative. I note that Miss A did decide to move her investment but other than that I 
cant see that she personally suffered much in the way of either inconvenience or distress as 
a result of SJPs error. So on balance Im satisfied an award isnt due to her for this. I cant 
take account of or make an award for the inconvenience her representative has suffered.
Our investigator didnt suggest that any steps be taken to pay any redress due into Miss As 
ISA or to compensate her for it not being paid there. Neither party has raised any objection 
to that or made any claims relating to this aspect specifically. In view of this and given the 
necessarily broad-brush approach taken to estimating the loss, and given also that Ive seen 
no suggestion that Miss A is a higher rate taxpayer or someone with significant capital gains 
in excess of her annual allowances, I see no reason to make specific provision in my award 
to account for the fact that any redress due will be paid to Miss A outside of her ISA. She of 
course could pay the redress, if any, into her ISA if she has available allowance.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Miss A as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Miss A would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Miss A's circumstances and objectives when she 
invested.
What must SJP do?
To compensate Miss A fairly, SJP must:
Compare the performance of Miss A's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
SJP should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
ISA 
investmentNo longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark. The full investment amount should be used rather than the 
figure net of charges (so the £16842 figure rather than the £16,000 figure).
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, SJP should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:Miss A wanted Capital growth and only a small risk to her capital was suitable in her 
circumstances.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Miss A's risk profile was in between, in the sense that it was suitable for 
her to take a small level of risk, and she was willing to do so, to attain her investment 
objectives. So the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Miss A into that position. It 
does not mean Miss A would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond 
and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Miss A could have obtained from 
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
SJP has previously asked us to clarify whether the above method means comparing 50% 
of the ISA with the Income index above and 50% with the fixed rate bonds benchmark  
and I confirm that it does. Also the date of investment above is the ISA start date as 
mentioned by SJP in its enquiry and the date ceased to be held or end date is the date 
described by SJP in its enquiry as the ISA encashment date, which was stated there to be 
20 August 2020. The sum to be used to calculate the index and benchmark values is as 
Ive explained further above and not the net investment sum SJP referred to in its enquiry.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold Miss As complaint. 
My decision is that St James's Place Wealth Management Plc should put things right by 
paying the amount calculated as set out above. St James's Place Wealth Management Plc 
should provide details of its calculation to Miss A in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman