DRN-2102207
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance renewal for 
her buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S buildings and contents insurance policy with Triton was due for renewal at the 
beginning of September 2019. As she hadnt heard anything from Triton by the renewal date, 
she phoned them to get the new premium. 
Triton told Mrs S that her policy wasnt due for renewal until December 2019. But Mrs S 
wasnt sure this information was correct, so followed this up with Triton a few days later. At 
this stage Triton admitted they had the wrong renewal date on their system, made the 
required amendment and provided Mrs S with a new quote for her buildings and contents 
insurance. Mrs S paid the premium in full at this time. The amount paid was £452.11.
It took some time for the new policy documents to be sent to Mrs S. She didnt receive them 
until the beginning of November 2019, having phoned the insurer herself to ask for them to 
transfer her through to Triton. 
Once she received the policy documents Mrs S reviewed them. It was unclear from the 
paperwork whether Mrs S house was covered for flood. As this was particularly important to 
Mrs S, she tried to contact Triton by phone and email to confirm it. Mrs S wasnt able to 
speak to anyone at Triton and her emails werent responded to, so she made a formal 
complaint to Triton at the end of November. Triton never responded. 
Mrs S also contacted the insurer directly as she wasnt able to confirm the flood cover with 
Triton. The insurer confirmed the new policy didnt have any cover for flood damage at 
Mrs S house. The insurer explained that, as Mrs S had paid Triton for the insurance policy, 
she would need to speak to Triton about cancelling the policy and getting a refund. 
Triton continued not to respond to Mrs S, and she was unable to cancel her policy or receive 
a refund for the amount she paid. The insurer agreed to cancel the policy directly with Mrs S, 
and refunded her for the remaining nine months she had left on the policy. But Mrs S wanted 
the full refund as the policy had been arranged without the appropriate cover in place. 
Triton never responded to Mrs S, so she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mrs S. He said that Mrs S had received some benefit from the 
insurance policy set up by Triton, so he didnt recommend she should receive the remainder 
of her insurance premium. But he asked Triton to pay Mrs S £100 compensation for the 
upset the matter had caused her.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mrs S has provided. I find her 
information plausible and persuasive.
Mrs S lives in an area thats susceptible to flooding. So, it was extremely important for her 
insurance policy to provide the relevant cover, as it had done for previous years. Once Triton 
had corrected the problem with their system and provided Mrs S with her new policy, they 
should have made her aware that flood cover had been excluded. Triton had a responsibility 
to make Mrs S aware of any significant changes to her policy. But they didnt, and Mrs S had 
to contact her insurers directly to find out this information as Triton werent responding to any 
contact from her. 
Mrs S has received a refund from the insurers for nine months following the cancellation of 
the policy. I appreciate that she feels Triton should return the remaining amount as they 
didnt make her aware of the changes to her policy. But Mrs S has received some benefit 
from the policy Triton set up for her and her house has been insured for various perils. Whilst 
it wasnt insured as she wanted or expected, I cant see that shes lost out as a result of 
Tritons error. 
Mrs S has confirmed that she tried to speak to Triton several times to get her money back, 
and she wasnt able to get through to anyone. None of her calls or emails were returned. 
Because of this upset, its also reasonable for Triton to pay Mrs S £100 compensation. I 
think this amount fairly recognises the inconvenience and upset caused in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mrs S £100 compensation for the upset shes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman