DRN-3905642
The complaint
Ms J, representing the estate of Mr A, complains about Santander UK Plc failing to change 
Mr As bank account to joint status.
What happened
Ms J, who is the administrator of Mr As estate, says that she visited a branch of Santander 
with Mr A in 2019 as he wanted to put his bank account into their joint names. Ms J explains 
this was because Mr A was due to have major surgery and, as he was concerned he 
wouldnt recover, he wanted her to have the funds in his account.
Ms J says they completed the necessary paperwork and she thought they had become joint 
account holders. However, when Mr A sadly passed away in 2021, Ms J discovered his bank 
account hadnt changed to joint names. And, as Mr As bank account was subsequently split 
in probate, Ms J feels she has lost out on £24000 which is about half of the accounts 
balance.
Ms J complained to Santander who at first couldnt find any records of the 2019 visit. 
However, they later found a record of an application for a joint account but said this was 
declined. They added the application was referred on to their underwriters on appeal.  
Santander apologised for their initial failure to adequately check records and credited Ms Js 
account with £50 due to her time and trouble.
Ms J complained to our service however our investigator didnt uphold her complaint.
As Ms J remains dissatisfied this complaint has been passed to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to express my condolences to Ms J.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms J here, as there are limits to our ability to help. This is because 
there are rules that apply to this service. These are known as DISP rules, set by the industry 
regulator (The Financial Conduct Authority) which are available on-line and they explain who 
is eligible to complain to this service. So, although Ms J is entitled to represent Mr As estate 
in bringing this complaint, we can only consider it in terms of the impact on the estate as an 
entity, separate to Ms J. 
In this case there hasnt been a financial loss to Mr As estate, as Santander transferred out 
the full amount of funds from Mr As bank account so they could be distributed to the 
beneficiaries of Mr As will. 
Having read Ms Js submission I appreciate that she feels Santander made a mistake here 
and, but for that mistake, the funds in the account wouldve gone to her which is what Mr A 
wished. However, as the account wasnt put in joint names, were unable to consider any 
complaint from Ms J as an individual about the impact of any Santander error on her. 
Also, from reviewing the file in this case, although Im satisfied Mr A and Ms J did visit a 
Santander branch in 2019 to open a joint account, theres a lack of evidence to show that 
Santander made a mistake. And, due to Santanders explanation about the account being 
declined, a lack of any confirmation to Ms J, no follow up from Ms J between 2019 and 2021 
and no information that Mr A couldnt make financial decisions, on balance of probabilities, it 
seems more likely than not that Santander didnt make an error here.
So, considering all the above, whilst I appreciate Ms J will be disappointed with this decision, 
Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman