DRN-3387211
The complaint
Mr W complains that on or around 26 November 2020 he was unable to open new trades in 
gold or oil as a result of a fault in Trading 212 Limiteds platform. He said that as a result he 
lost opportunities to mitigate losses he was sustaining on other open trades, as well as lost 
profit. 
What happened
Between November and December 2020, Mr W says he had some short positions on gold 
and oil. He said his strategy involved opening long positions to mitigate fluctuations in the 
price  but when he tried to open new positions in gold and oil he was unable to. He said 
that he had over £7,000 in usable margin, so the error must have been with Trading 212s 
service. 
He says that as the market was moving against his positions, he ended up having to close 
his short positions and crystalise a loss of around £12,337. Mr W complained to Trading 212. 
It looked into his concerns, but concluded that it didnt do anything wrong. It said that it had 
an obligation as a business to manage risks, and the exceptional market conditions at the 
time meant that it had identified an increased risk to the business around its CFD exposure. 
It explained that Trading 212 hedged client positions in order to minimise risk, and this was 
very difficult to do at times when there was very significant volumes of trading. It said that as 
a result, it had to take the difficult decision to restrict the amount of units that could be 
purchased for some CFD products. It explained that the terms allowed it to take such action 
and that it didnt agree it was liable for any losses. 
Mr W remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into his complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In short, he said that the terms 
and conditions allowed Trading 212 to take the action it did and he was satisfied Mr W hadnt 
been treated unfairly. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said:
When he raised his concerns with Trading 212 on 2 December 2022, he was told he 
would now be able to trade, but that wasnt true. 
He maintained that he was still unable to open positions in gold or oil. 
He maintained he had been treated unfairly and was entitled to compensation. 
Before the complaint came to me, Trading 212 provided more information about why Mr W 
was unable to open positions at the time. It said:
The terms and conditions of the account allowed it to take the actions that it did at the 
time. 
It no longer had the chart evidence to demonstrate the volatility which the markets 
were experiencing at the time, but this was reported in the media and common 
knowledge. 
The restrictions Mr W was complaining about were not specific to his account, and 
were instead applied to the majority of CFDs which Trading 212 offered on its 
website at the time. 
It said that Mr W should contact it about the issues he was continuing to experience 
and it would look into them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ws strength of feeling on his complaint, and his upset at the losses he says 
were caused by his inability to open long CFDs on gold and oil. Im sorry to say, however, 
that I dont have much to add to what the investigator has said. Mr W has also raised 
ongoing issues that have arisen since his complaint. I am not going to comment on those 
issues or make any findings about them  hell need to raise those issues separately as a 
new complaint.
The starting point in looking at Mr Ws complaint is the arrangement he had with Trading 
212, which is set out in the customer agreement. At 6.9, the customer agreement says:
We shall have the right to modify at our sole discretion the Margin requirements, Interest 
Rate Swaps, commissions, minimum and maximum trading amounts, minimum and 
maximum number of units of each Financial Instrument and alike.
And section 7 of the agreement limits Trading 212s liability for loss of profits. 
In my view, the agreement Mr W had with Trading 212 gave it a wide discretion to take 
action on individual markets or to restrict certain financial instruments at particular times. 
Trading 212 has explained that in November 2020, the significant levels of market volatility 
caused it to restrict or suspend clients from new positions on certain markets. It said this was 
because it hedged client trades in the underlying market, and the significant volatility at the 
time was making this more challenging. 
Ive considered Trading 212s explanation, and Im persuaded it is reasonable. The regulator 
requires firms like Trading 212 to ensure that it manages risks to its business as well as to its 
clients at all times. And theres nothing inherently wrong with Trading 212 hedging exposure 
in the underlying market. In my view, the key issue in this case is whether by doing so, Mr W 
was unfairly impacted or caused losses that he would otherwise not have incurred. 
At the time, my understanding is that Mr W was still able to close the open trades he had  
so Trading 212 hadnt restricted all trades, just the opening of new ones. 
And while I understand Mr Ws strategy relied on him opening long positions to hedge his 
short positions, he could also have closed his short positions in order to reduce his exposure 
 this wouldve had the same effect. In other words, Im not persuaded the losses Mr W had 
incurred at that point on his short gold and oil trades were caused by Trading 212. So whilst the possibility of opening new long positions wouldve potentially allowed him to 
reduce those losses, he could still have achieved that objective by simply closing some 
trades himself. This means that I dont agree Mr W was caused a financial loss at the time. 
Ive considered whether Mr W being denied the opportunity of opening new trades means he 
should be entitled to compensation, but Im not persuaded that would be fair either. As Ive 
mentioned above, Trading 212s terms allow it to modify or suspend the markets it offers  
and I dont agree that stopping Mr W from opening new trades during a volatile period of 
time was unfair, particularly given the wider circumstances. At the time, news had broken 
that the world was closer to a vaccine for coronavirus, and this clearly had a significant 
impact on financial markets. Given that trading CFDs at such times carries an even greater 
risk of financial loss, Im satisfied it was not unreasonable for Trading 212 to take steps to 
limit the volume of trading on certain markets. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied Trading 212 treated Mr W fairly and reasonably and is not 
responsible for the losses Mr W is claiming. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman