DRN-3808515
The complaint
Ms B and Mr R complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to them alongside borrowing secured on their home. 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms B indicated she and Mr R did 
not agree with our adjudicators view. The matter was then passed to me to make a final 
decision.
Upon considering the complaint, I noted that Ms B had indicated in the PPI questionnaire 
that she held an income protection policy at the time PPI was sold. I asked our adjudicator to 
contact Ms B for some more information about this policy. Ms B said she thought the terms 
of that cover were confidential to her and she queried why our adjudicator had asked for the 
information. Our adjudicator explained that such cover could have an impact on my decision.
My provisional decision
No further response was received from Ms B and so I considered the complaint from the 
information we already held on file. I issued a provisional decision in order to give Ms B and 
Mr R a further opportunity to provide the information that had been requested by our 
adjudicator.
I said: 
My provisional decision is that PPI was not mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When was PPI sold?
When making this decision, Ive applied the balance of probabilities. In other words, 
where the facts in a case are in dispute (as they are here), I have to decide what 
most likely happened based on the evidence before me.
The first thing I need to establish is when PPI was sold. Our adjudicator said she 
thought the first policy was sold in 1999 and then another policy was sold in 2000. I 
can see Ms B strongly believes more policies were sold.
Ms B and Mr R havent provided us with any information to show they had PPI cover 
with Lloyds before 1999. Lloyds has provided us with some information from its 
electronic systems. Im satisfied it undertook the searches of its electronic systems 
that I would expect. And Ive seen the PPI application forms that were completed in 
1999 and 2000 respectively.
Having considered that electronic and documentary evidence at some length, I 
cannot see any evidence that PPI was sold before an application form was 
completed by Ms B and Mr R on 31 January 1999. Ms B and Mr R took out a further 
advance in 2000 and PPI was sold to them again. The additional cost of the PPI was 
£9 a month, which brought their total premium cost to £58.40.
In further considering the documentation provided by Lloyds, I can see that Ms B and 
Mr R took out another further advance in 2002. However, I cannot see anything to 
suggest a PPI policy was sold alongside this additional borrowing. It looks as though 
all of the loans were redeemed in 2003.
Accordingly, I have proceeded on the basis that PPI was sold to Ms B and Mr R in 
1999 and again in 2000.
Was PPI mis-sold?
In considering whether PPI was mis-sold, Ive first looked at whether Ms B and Mr R 
met the eligibility criteria for the cover.
In both 1999 and 2000, the eligibility criteria were:
That Ms B and Mr R be over the age of 18 and under the age of 65;
That they were not absent from work due to sickness or injury;
That they had been in employment (including self-employment) for at least six 
months prior to the commencement of the policy; and
They were not in receipt of a state pension.
I understand that when the cover was sold in 1999, Ms B was on or about to go on 
maternity leave. I further understand Mr R was self-employed. 
The policy defined employment as including self-employment, so Im satisfied Mr R 
would have been eligible for the cover. And as Ms B was on maternity leave in 1999, 
I think she would have still been under a contract of employment. I cant see anything 
to suggest she would have been excluded from the cover because of her maternity 
leave. I havent seen anything else about their circumstances in 1999 to suggest they 
wouldnt have been eligible for the PPI. I understand Ms B had returned to work from 
her maternity leave the time of the 2000 sale and so Im satisfied she would have 
been eligible for the cover.
Was the cover presented as optional?
Ive next considered whether the Ms B and Mr R would have known the PPI was 
optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it.
I can see that Ms B and Mr R told us that the cover was added to their borrowing 
automatically and that there was no verbal conversation about the PPI. Ms B told us 
that she and Mr R were just told to complete the forms by post, which they did.
I accept that what Ms B and Mr R told us is what they genuinely recall about the 
sales. But I have to bear in mind that this cover was sold over 20 years ago. It is 
difficult to recall precisely what happened such a long time ago.
Looking at the application forms, it seems they were most likely completed in a 
branch rather than being sent out in the post. The PPI application forms were entirely 
separate to the mortgage application, so I think it would have been clear that the 
mortgage and the PPI were separate financial products.
It seems to me that there must have been some discussion between Ms B, Mr R and 
Lloyds because a decision was made about how to split the cover. I can also see that 
a separate direct debit mandate was completed to authorise payment of the PPI 
premiums from their current account.
Putting all of this together, I think it would have been clear to Ms B and Mr R that the 
PPI was optional, and they could have refused it if they wanted to.
Was the cover suitable?
Ive treated these sales as advised. That means Lloyds had to take extra steps to 
check whether the cover was suitable for Ms B and Mr Rs needs. To help me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. 
And Ive also thought about what Ms B and Mr R told us about their personal 
circumstances at the relevant time.
I can see that if theyd had to make a claim on the PPI, 50% of their mortgage 
repayments would have been covered if either Ms B or Mr R were off sick from work 
or if they lost their jobs. If they were both off sick or out of work at the same time, 
100% of the repayments would have been covered. Each claim could have lasted for 
up to 12 months.
I understand Ms B would have received some sick pay from her employer. And I 
understand Mr R would have only been paid sporadically if he wasnt well enough to 
work. On that basis, I think the PPI would have lasted for longer than their contractual 
sick pay from work.
I havent seen anything unusual about Ms Bs employment that would have stopped 
her from making a successful claim if she needed to. Mr R was self-employed. But I 
cant see anything in the policy document that would have made it more difficult for 
him to be able to make a claim in 1999 or 2000.
Ms B [told] us she and Mr R had some savings when the policies were sold, but it 
looks as though the PPI would have lasted for longer than those savings. Ms B 
mentioned an income protection policy. But as things stand, I dont have any 
information about what that policy covered. So I cant say the additional policy would 
have rendered these [PPI] policies unsuitable. If Ms B has any information about this 
income protection policy that she wants me to consider, I would strongly urge her to 
provide it in her response to my provisional decision.
I understand Ms B and Mr R were in good health when the cover was sold. So I dont 
think any of the policies exclusions around medical conditions would have affected 
their ability to make a successful claim. With all of these things in mind, I think the 
PPI sold in 1999 and 2000 probably was suitable for Ms B and Mr Rs needs.
Even so, Lloyds still had to give Ms B and Mr R enough information about the cover 
so they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. That 
information should have been clear, fair and not misleading. I accept its possible that 
Lloyds didnt tell Ms B and Mr R everything it should have done about the policy. But 
Ive set out above how the PPI could have been helpful if either or both of them were 
out of work. I must stress that the borrowing was secured on their home, which could 
have been at risk if they fell behind with their repayments. With all of this in mind, I 
cant reasonably say Ms B and Mr R would have acted differently if Lloyds had given 
them more or better information about the cover.
With all of this in mind, I am sorry to disappoint Ms B and Mr R, but as things stand, I 
cannot say these policies were mis-sold.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider by 3 November 2022. 
Only Ms B responded. She said it had been widely legislated that PPI in itself was an 
insurance policy that no borrower needed to hold alongside any credit card, mortgage or 
loan. She also said that when she tried to claim on her PPI policy for unemployment, she 
was informed she could only claim if one party had died.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I know Ms B and Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, but Im afraid I havent upheld 
this complaint. 
In her response to the complaint, Ms B says it was widely legislated that PPI was a policy 
that was not required by any borrower. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) established a set of rules and guidance setting 
out how complaints about PPI should be considered. These rules are known as the DISP 
rules and can be found online in the FCAs handbook. I considered and applied those DISP 
rules in my provisional decision. I have reconsidered them before issuing this final decision. 
It is important to note that they do not state that PPI was not required by any borrower as 
alleged by Ms B. 
Ive had regard to what Ms B said about her unemployment claim being refused. I dont have 
any details as to the claim Ms B says was made, or when it was made. Im satisfied that the 
policies sold to Ms B and Mr R in 1999 and 2000 did include unemployment cover. Ms B 
may wish to consider whether she would like to make a separate complaint about that 
alleged refused claim. However, any such complaint may be subject to time limits. 
In my provisional decision, I asked Ms B to provide me with any information she wanted me 
to consider about the second insurance policy she told us about. No further information on 
that point has been provided. 
Accordingly, although Ive considered the additional points raised by Ms B, Im afraid I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So for the reasons set out above, 
particularly those in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint and Lloyds is not 
required to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the parties to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman