DRN-1286117
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Elite Insurance Company Limited ("Elite") declined a claim for
damage to the roof of their property.
What happened
In October 2011, Mr and Mrs S had a protective coating applied to the roof of their property. 
The work was protected by a 10-year guarantee from the supplier and insurance cover was 
provided by Elite, in the event that the supplier ceased trading.
Mr S made a claim under the insurance policy in January 2019 to have the roof cleaned 
and re-proofed, as the supplier had ceased trading. Elite declined the claim on the basis that 
moss growth was not covered and the claim had not been brought within 30 days of the 
event occurring.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She thought that Mr and Mrs S had attempted to 
make the claim within 30 days of noticing a problem with the roof. She considered there had 
been some delay when they tried to contact the original supplier. Further she thought the 
expert evidence did support roof discolouration, which could be considered under the policy. 
Our investigator recommended that Elite should re-assess the claim.
Elite disagreed with the view. They maintained that Mr and Mrs S would likely have been 
aware of a problem with the roof at a much earlier stage and they pointed to the claim form, 
which referred only to the presence of moss on the roof.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 November 2019, in which I thought:
It was not disputed that the supplier had ceased to trade, which was a requirement under the 
policy. So I considered the balance of the terms of the policy, which said that:
cover provided by this Insured Guarantee is limited to the cost of removal, repair, alteration, 
rectification or remedial work that is required to be undertaken within the terms and 
conditions of the LONG TERM GUARANTEE issued by the SUPPLIER/HIP MEMBER
COMPANY
The terms of the long term guarantee stated that cover was provided for:
. . .all protective coating applied by the company are guaranteed for a period of 10 years for 
the following:
Coating, flaking or peeling.
Coating discolouration.
Insurers will indemnify the holder of the insured guarantee for the cost of such work,
providing that (a) the HIP has been notified within 30 days of the fault first occurring and (b)
the claims procedure being adhered to . . .
I considered the surveyors report obtained by Elite, in which the surveyor commented as 
follows:The remainder of the roof has become black in the majority of places with lighter areas
under the dormer windows suggesting that the roof tiles have become darker where
rainwater runs over it. There has also been a significant amount of moss re-growth in some
areas of the roof. . .
I am of the opinion that the product that was applied would not have prevented the re-growth 
and it was inevitable that the roof would suffer further growth and staining. [my emphasis]. 
However, as a 10 year guarantee was offered we consider that there are works required to 
turn the roof back to the condition that the product advertised.
I agreed the surveyor had identified some moss regrowth but it was clear that the surveyor 
also agreed that the roof had been stained, which was entirely consistent with Mr Ss 
account that the roof colour had darkened. That was also evident from the photographs of 
the roof in the report. I could not see how the report could be read otherwise
The surveyor went further and under suggested remedial action he said,
We recommend that the roof is cleaned and painted as completed previously but do not
offer a further 10 year guarantee but only guarantee till the end of the original period (2021)."
It was Elites position that the expert report said there was, no evidence of flaking, peeling 
or discoloration of the roof coating. But that conclusion was unsound. The report identified 
the roof as having become black with staining and described the paint as patchy and
inconsistent. Elite appeared to have focused on the presence of moss only.
Elite also said the claim had been brought to them too late, not within 30 days of the fault 
first occurring. I noted that the purpose of having the time limit was so the insurer could step 
in before the problem escalated. Discolouration was a progressive process and I took into 
account that it was on a roof. So the fair and reasonable approach was for me to consider 
whether Mr and Mrs S brought the claim within 30 days of when they ought reasonably to 
have been aware of the roof discolouration.
I thought carefully about this. It wasnt possible to identify when the roof began to
change as I didnt have photographs of it's condition before and after the product was 
applied in 2011. But I could see that some patch staining was present at 2016, that was 
evident from Google Street view. So arguably Mr and Mrs S should have been aware of the 
changes then. And certainly by the time of inspection by the surveyor in 2019 the roof was 
markedly changed to black, so it was likely there was a significant deterioration over the 
three year period. I also took into account that the front door of the property was also directly 
below a section of marked roof, so Mr and Mrs S would have had this section of roof in their 
vision on a very regular basis.
Next, I considered what Mr and Mrs S had said as to when they noticed the roof
discolouration. Mr S told our investigator that he didnt really notice the changes in 2016, but 
then said he thought it would go away. He said he was aware of discolouration later on, but 
didnt think it was that bad as other properties in the road had dark roofs. It was only when 
he noticed the moss that he realised there was a problem and it was at this point that he 
progressed the claim. I took into account that Mr and Mrs S said the problem first occurred 
within the last year, when they completed the original application form.
I thought it was more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S ought reasonably to have been aware 
of staining to the roof at a much earlier point. In light of my findings, I was not satisfied that 
the claim was brought within 30 days of when they ought reasonably to have been aware of 
the discolouration. So I didnt think it was unreasonable or unfair for Elite to decline the claimBoth parties have now confirmed receipt of the provisional decision. Mr S doesn't agree with 
it. He explains the efforts he went to, to bring the claim to Elite, which involved contacting 
third parties. He accepts that the roof was discoloured before he made the claim, but he 
assumed this was normal. He says that he made the claim when the roof discolouration 
became worse. Elite have nothing further to add.
I've reconsidered everything and I've taken into account the further comments, when making 
my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr S says the claim was brought when the roof discolouration became worse 
and I've seen that it took some time to get the complaint directed to Elite. But Mr and Mrs S 
haven't been able to provide any photographs or other evidence about the condition of the 
roof between the period 2016 to 2019. Given that the photographs show some deterioration 
in 2016 and that Mr and Mrs S say they were aware of some discolouration, I'm still not 
persuaded that the claim was brought as soon as it reasonably ought to have been. I 
consider that the staining was there to be seen from 2016 onwards.
For the reasons given in my provisional decision, it remains my view that it wasn't 
unreasonable or unfair for Elite to decline the claim.
My final decision
I'm sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but for the reasons given, I'm not upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
 
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman