DRN-4184983
The complaint
Ms Y complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement taken with First 
Response Finance Ltd.
What happened
In October 2022 Ms Y acquired a used car through a dealer Ill refer to as S. Ms Y paid a 
deposit of £997.25 and the rest of the cash price of £10,997.25 was funded through a hire 
purchase agreement taken with First Response. The car had covered around 32,289 miles 
and was around six years old.
Unfortunately, Ms Y says she noticed various issues with the car. She says it was returned 
to S for repairs, but the issues continued. At the end of November 2022 the car was looked 
at by a third party garage. This garage noted issues with:
Drivers seat belt faulty
Intermittent issues with headlight
Rattle from engine on deceleration, potential timing chain issue
High oil consumption
Evidence of previous accident damage to offside rear
Gearstick leather deteriorated
Brakes making squealing noise
Ms Y complained to First Response. It issued its final response in January 2023. It said, in 
summary, that the car had been shown to have issues following repairs and so it agreed Ms 
Y had a right to reject it. First Response explained the car had been collected by S. But it 
said there was a delay in S confirming it had the car, due to an IT issue. 
First Response said Ms Ys hire purchase agreement had been cancelled, that it would pay 
for the inspection by the third party garage and it offered £150 to reflect the distress caused 
by the delay from S. It said as Ms Y had used the car, it would retain £408.29 from her 
repayments, but would refund £233.48.
First response also noted Ms Y had complained about the impact of the situation on her 
credit record. It explained the agreement would be removed from her credit file within four to 
six weeks.
First response also explained that if Ms Y wanted further car finance, she should seek this 
from another provider.
First response later confirmed that S had returned Ms Ys deposit to her.
Ms Y remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. She said, in summary, 
that she should get back all the money she paid towards the car. She said the car shouldnt 
have been supplied to her as the seatbelt issue was an MOT fail. She said her credit file was 
affected by what happened and she couldnt get other finance. Ms Y also said shed had to 
get taxis frequently due to the issues with the car and these costs should be refunded.
Ms Y made various complaints about the customer service from First Response, including 
that during a phone call a member of staff had laughed at her in relation to some health 
issues, and that First Response wouldnt offer her further finance. 
Our investigator issued an opinion and didnt uphold the complaint. She said, in summary, 
that she agreed the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms Y. But she 
said as Ms Y had used the car when she had it, no further monthly payments should be 
returned. She said she didnt think the taxi costs should be refunded as Ms Y was using the 
car. She said she didnt think the credit report Ms Y had sent showed an issue, as the 
agreement wouldnt yet show as cancelled. And she said it was up to First Response if it 
would lend further to Ms Y.
Ms Y was unhappy with this. She made quite extensive comments here, but in summary, 
she said First Response had lied about refunding her money, it had withheld calls from a 
subject access request and she was told by First Response to keep driving the car even 
though it was unsafe. She said First Response shouldve taken action over the car passing 
an MOT, that it was unfair to charge for any mileage used, she believed it had edited contact 
notes to make her look bad, that it shouldve allowed her to reject the car earlier and that she 
was unhappy with how it noted some account details.
As Ms Y remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer First Response has made to put things right is fair and 
reasonable. Ill explain why.
Ms Y complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
regulated consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im 
satisfied I can consider Ms Ys complaint about First Response.
I should begin by explaining to both parties that I am not going to comment on everything 
Ms Y has raised or all of the information shes provided. Ms Y has made a lot of individual 
points and has supplied a lot of evidence. Im going to focus on what I think is the crux of this 
complaint and the key facts. Where I havent commented on something, this isnt because I 
consider it unimportant  this just reflects the informal nature of our service.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  First Response here  has a 
responsibility to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a 
reasonable person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. 
It isnt in dispute here that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms Y. 
I say this as all parties are in agreement about this, and the car has now been rejected. So, I 
wont comment further on this, other than to say I agree here that this was the case. What I 
need to focus on in my decision is whether, given the car was of unsatisfactory quality, what First Response has done to put things right is fair and reasonable, or if it needs to do more 
under the circumstances.
I understand that all parties agree a repair attempt was initially carried out on the car which 
was unsuccessful. Thinking about Ms Ys rights under the CRA, given the car was still of 
unsatisfactory quality, it follows that she then had the final right to reject. So I was pleased 
to see First Response acknowledging and arranging this.
Ive considered the delay that occurred here. First Response have acknowledged that there 
was an issue with S where an IT problem led to a delay in S confirming that it had received 
Ms Ys car. But, I need to consider the overall situation here. The invoice for the third party 
garage who confirmed the outstanding issues was from the very end of November, the car 
was collected about three weeks later, and First Response cancelled the agreement around 
two weeks after this. 
I appreciate there was something of a delay here, but overall I dont think these timescales 
are particularly unreasonable, and Im satisfied the £150 offered by First Response to reflect 
what happened here is fair and reasonable.
Its been confirmed that S has returned Ms Ys deposit to her. Again, I appreciate there was 
a bit of a delay here, but the key point is that Ms Y has got this back. So I dont think First 
Response needs to take any further action.
Ms Y feels strongly that all of the repayments she made towards the agreement should be 
returned to her. But I dont agree this should be the case. I say this as the CRA explains:
If the consumer exercises the final right to reject, any refund to the consumer may be 
reduced by a deduction for use, to take account of the use the consumer has had of the 
goods in the period since they were delivered
First response explained Ms Y paid a total of £641.77 towards the agreement. From this it 
refunded Ms Y £233.48. This means First Response reimbursed Ms Y around 36% of the 
payments she made.
Ive thought about the use of the car Ms Y had. She says she didnt feel safe using it and so 
took taxis instead of driving  which shes shown receipts she says were for. But, looking at 
the mileage of the car, this was around 32,289 when Ms Y acquired it and around 36,071 
when it was returned. Even accepting what Ms Y said about 600 miles being used by a 
garage, this means she covered around 3,182 miles, which is well over 1,000 a month for 
the time she had the car. So, Im satisfied she had fair usage of it. It follows Im satisfied First 
Response shouldnt be responsible for the cost of the taxis during this period.
Thinking about the issues with the car Ms Y had, Im satisfied its fair to say that, while she 
did have use of the car, this usage was impaired. But, considering whats fair and 
reasonable, Im satisfied the amount First Response reimbursed to Ms Y here fairly reflects 
this.
Ms Y is unhappy as she says she was told by First Response that she should keep driving 
the car even though it was unsafe. First Response says it never told Ms Y this. However, I 
dont need to make a finding about what happened here. 
I know Ms Y feels strongly that the car was unsafe which couldve caused an accident or 
injury, and that she couldve been stopped by the Police. But, thankfully, as far as I know, Ms 
Y had no accidents or incidents when she drove the car. First Response are responsible for what did happen  not what might have happened. So, whatever Ms Y was told, it doesnt 
need to take any action on this point.
Ms Y is also upset about what happened when the redress for the usage was paid. She feels 
strongly that First Response lied to her about this. But again, I dont think I need to make a 
finding on what likely happened here. The key point is that Im satisfied this was paid to Ms Y 
and, whatever happened, any delay wasnt substantial enough to persuade me any further 
action is needed.
First response said it would cancel Ms Ys agreement and remove it from her credit file, 
which is what Id expect to see under the circumstances. Ms Y felt First Response had 
negatively impacted her credit file when she complained. Ive reviewed the screenshot of 
part of Ms Ys credit report that she sent in about this. But this specifically says information 
hasnt been updated since prior to when First Response said the agreement was cancelled. 
First Response has confirmed it has updated Ms Ys credit file, and I havent seen enough to 
make me think this isnt the case.
So, thinking about this, in terms of the car being of unsatisfactory quality, Im satisfied First 
Response has met Ms Ys rights under the CRA. And Im satisfied its offer to put things right 
is fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
Ms Y has also raised some additional points which Ill comment on below.
Ms Y says when she made First Response aware of the issue with the car, during a phone 
call a staff member laughed at the situation and at some health conditions she mentioned. 
Ive listened to what I believe is the call in question here. I will say that I do think this call 
sounds somewhat unprofessional  I say this as music can be heard in the background and 
the agents voice appears not to be isolated  meaning other conversations that were taking 
place can be heard. First Response has explained there was an issue with the agents 
headset so it was letting in external noise  which seems a reasonable version of events  
and its confirmed this has now been resolved. 
While laughter can be heard during this call, Im satisfied this wasnt the agent Ms Y was 
speaking to and was overheard from a different conversation. It follows I dont think what 
Ms Y said is correct here and First Response doesnt need to take any further action.
Ms Y also says that there is another phone call that took place, that has been withheld from 
a subject access request, where a different staff member mocked her health conditions. But 
Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me its most likely this is the case.
I know Ms Y is unhappy that First Response have explained she should seek car finance 
from another business if she wants to take out another agreement. But First Response 
doesnt have to provide Ms Y with further borrowing if it chooses not to.
I want to reassure Ms Y that Ive carefully considered all of the other points she raised. But 
these do not change my opinion on the complaint.
My final decision
First Response Finance Ltd have already upheld this complaint and has made an offer to put 
things right.
The car has now been returned to S, First Response Finance Ltd has allowed Ms Y to reject 
it and the finance agreement has been ended. In addition it has already reimbursed Ms Y £233.48 for the usage of the car and her deposit has been returned to her from S. First 
Response Finance Ltd has confirmed the agreement has been removed from Ms Ys credit 
file.
First Response Finance Ltd has also offered Ms Y £150 to reflect what happened, but Im 
not certain if this has been paid to her or not.
My decision is that this offer is fair and reasonable under all of the circumstances of this 
complaint.
So, I instruct First Response Finance Ltd, if it hasnt already done so, to pay Ms Y £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman