DRN-1926019
 
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs J complain Santander UK Plc placed a block on their bank account.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Santander contacted Mr P in February 2019 to inform him they needed to update 
details as part of Know your customer. Its not unusual for banks to do this and is 
necessary for them to keep up to date with regulatory requirements. Santander 
spoke to Mr P in March 2019, but he wasnt satisfied he was talking to someone from 
Santander, so didnt answer any questions. Santander then wrote to him in 
March 2019 to remind him they still needed the information and provided a form he 
could complete and send back or the options to complete the form online. They also 
made Mr P aware the account would be blocked if the information wasnt received 
within 60 days. The letter is addressed to Mr P and was sent to the correct address, 
so Im satisfied it was sent to him
Santander didnt receive the information so around June 2019 they placed blocks on 
his account. Santander had told Mr P what would happen if he didnt provide the 
information and it had now been around four months since they initially requested the 
it. And as they hadnt received anything back from Mr P I dont think it was unfair of 
Santander to do this
Mr P became aware his account was blocked in June 2019. He contacted Santander 
and was directed to a branch, but they were unable to help him. He called Santander 
again and was advised to go back into the branch. Mr P did this and the forms were 
completed and taken by the branch, but the account was still blocked over two weeks 
later. And I can see Mr P had to make further contact with Santander to get the 
blocks removed  which happened in July 2019, around three weeks after they were 
placed on the account. 
Santander accepted it caused delays by not assisting Mr P when he originally visited 
the branch and offered Mr P £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Our 
Investigator felt further delays had been caused after this initial visit and could see 
Mr P had suffered further inconvenience such as making several phone calls, having 
to visit the branch again and the forms then not being sent. He recommended 
Santander pay Mr P and Mrs J an additional £100 compensation. Mr P has said that 
this was a stressful and upsetting experience for him, and I know he is unhappy with 
how he was treated when he visited the branch. But I agree with our investigators 
recommendation as it fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience Mr P and Mrs J 
have been caused.
Mr P said the blocks on the account prevented him and Mrs J from claiming a £100 
reward for transferring to a new bank account they opened in July 2019. Ive looked 
at the information they provided, and I cant see anything that persuades me this is 
the case, but I also checked the terms and conditions on the new banks website. 
The terms and conditions say the bonus is dependent on a particular sum of money 
being paid in within three months of opening the account  not on switching any 
services to them. And as Mr P and Mrs Js account was blocked for around three 
weeks, they still would have had around two months left to fulfil the terms needed to 
claim the reward. So Im not persuaded they couldnt claim the reward as a result of 
the delays with the account being unblocked.
Putting things right
To put things right Santander UK Plc should pay Mr P and Mrs J a total of £250 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr P and Mrs Js complaint.
To put things right Santander UK Plc should pay Mr P and Mrs J a total of £250 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman