DRN-2911232
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited incorrectly 
calculated the annual management charge (AMC) and further charges applied to their 
investment bond in June 2020.
What happened
When Mrs C and Mr C received their 2020 investment bond statement from Prudential, the 
current cash in value of the bond was shown as £244,882.41. The statement highlighted the 
AMC for the with-profits fund was 1.25%. And there was a further cost of 0.15%. There were 
also separate AMCs and further costs highlighted for other funds in the investment bond. 
There was a final bonus figure that wasnt guaranteed, along with a market value reduction 
figure (MVR) Prudential were applying at that time.
Mrs C and Mr C complained to Prudential about the MVR and how the AMC and further 
costs had been calculated on the with-profits fund. Prudential provided a further explanation 
of the MVR by way of a leaflet and letter. They explained the further costs charge was an 
implicit charge that had always been part of charges on a statement but said the way theyd 
laid the charges out had changed. Prudential apologised for the confusion the information 
may have caused and offered to pay Mrs C and Mr C £150.00 to recognise this.
Mrs C and Mr C raised a concern that the further charges figure of £337.76 on their annual 
statement was wrong. Prudential provided a response and explained how the further 
charges were calculated and that the difference was a rounding of the charges.
Mrs C and Mr C complained that the AMC in the June 2020 statement appeared to be based 
on the current fund value excluding the final bonus. But from later documents Prudential had 
sent them it appeared to be based on the cash in value of the investment. They questioned 
whether Prudential was detailing one AMC on the statement but then charging more. And 
they felt Prudential were inflating the actual charges on the investment bond.
Prudential provided a final response to Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint. They accepted they 
shouldve explained the charges and how they were calculated earlier than they did. 
Prudential apologised and offered a payment of £350 in total for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused Mrs C and Mr C. They also explained theyd provide feedback 
about Mrs C and Mr Cs comments in respect of the information in the annual statement. 
Prudential acknowledged Mrs C and Mr C didnt want the payment of £350, but instead 
wanted the additional AMC charges theyd paid over the years to be refunded.
Mrs C and Mr C brought their complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked 
into things for them. Our investigator thought that the information contained in the annual 
statement wasnt incorrect but understood why it couldve been misinterpreted.  And that 
Prudentials offer of £350 was a fair and reasonable one.
Mrs C and Mr C didnt agree with our investigator and asked that an ombudsman decides 
their complaint. The complaint has now been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs C and Mr C will be disappointed but for very much the same reasons as 
our investigator I consider the offer made by Prudential is a fair and reasonable one. And 
that the AMC and further charges may have been open to misinterpretation, but they are in 
line with the charges Prudential said they would take. I will now explain why.
Prudential have already accepted they couldve provided an earlier explanation about the 
MVR, AMC and further costs. So, I wont be dealing with this matter in my final decision. 
Instead, I will address the crux of Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint that Prudential incorrectly 
expressed the AMC on the annual statement. And that Prudential shouldve used the current 
value recorded in the June 2020 statement.
Ive seen the current value of the with-profits fund in June 2020 was recorded as 
£164,855.47, but this didnt include the final bonus, nor any MVR Prudential said it was 
applying at the time. The actual value including the final bonus and MVR was £210,182.16 
and was calculated as follows:
£164,855.47 plus £55,276.94, less £9,950.25 = £210,182.16*.
In respect to how Prudential express the AMC on the with-profits element of the investment 
bond, the statement explains: A charge is deducted from the With-Profits Fund each year 
The charge is not explicit so you wont see it being taken from your plan. Its deducted 
from the underlying With-Profits Fund each year and is already taken into account when we 
calculate Bonus Rates for our With-Profit Fund. The {AMC} in the table above [£2,992.47] is 
an approximated value for this statement period only and may vary in the future
I consider the above extract explains the value Prudential used to calculate the AMC is the 
current value including the final bonus, less the MVR. This is then reflected in the total cash-
in value of the investment bond was £244,882.41 as follows:
With-profit value (£210,182.16) plus the other unit-linked funds (£34,700.25) = £244,882.41.
If I use the with-profits cash-in value* and apply the 1.25% AMC Prudential detail in the 
statement, this equates to an AMC for the with-profits element of £2,627.30. Of course, as 
Prudential have explained, this is only an approximation because the charge isnt explicit. If I 
then consider the AMC charges on the other unit linked funds amount to £347.01 (taken 
from the statement), this gives a total AMC for the investment of £2,974.29. So, Im satisfied 
the figure of £2,7992.47 within the 2020 statement was a reasonable assessment of the 
AMCs applied during the year.
For completeness, I also looked at the future charges section of the statement. And I can 
see the figure Prudential included in the statement (£337.76) is within the same margin as 
the AMC figure. And, allowing for the approximation Ive referred to above, I consider this is 
also fair and reasonable.
I can see that Mrs C and Mr C felt the AMC calculation based on an alternative cash-in value 
would equate to 1.50%, but the value they referred me to is the current value and not the 
cash-in value on the statement. And the current value didnt include the final bonus applying 
at the time. So, for the reasons Ive provided above, Im satisfied the alternative figure isnt 
the figure on which to assess the impact of the AMC and further costs.I dont consider Prudential intended to mislead Mrs C and Mr C about the charges it applied 
to their bond. And Ive not seen anything to persuade me Mrs C and Mr C have been 
overcharged. Prudential did make an offer to pay Mrs C and Mr C £350 to reflect a delay in 
providing clarity about the charges in the statement. This reflected that Mrs C and Mr C had 
to make a number of telephone calls and send several secure communications to Prudential 
before they received an explanation. And that for several months Mrs C and Mr C were 
concerned about the impact the charges couldve had on their investment.
My final decision
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has already made an offer to settle the 
complaint and I consider this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my final decision is that 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should pay Mrs C and Mr C £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman