DRN-3545824
The complaint
Mr B and P Limited, as trustees of the B Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS) have 
complained about the time taken by National Savings and Investments (NS&I) to complete a 
requested withdrawal from an income bond held within the trust.
I will refer to Mr B and P Limited as the trustees throughout this decision.
What happened
In December 2020 the trustees requested to withdraw significant amount from the trusts 
investment bond. They were not happy with performance of the bond as interest rates had 
dropped so wanted to invest a portion of the bond value elsewhere over the medium to long 
term. 
The trustees submitted the partial withdrawal request on 7 December 2020. However, NS&I 
didnt complete the transaction and pay the monies until 19 January 2021.
The trustees feel NS&I delayed acting on their request unnecessarily. They believe the 
transaction should have taken days not weeks. And because they werent able to invest the 
money elsewhere as quickly as they had wanted they feel they have lost out financially.
When NS&I looked into the complaint it agreed the transaction took longer than it should 
have but explained this was because of disruption to their business caused by the 
coronavirus pandemic.
The trustees were not happy with the outcome and so brought the complaint to this service 
where it was assessed by one of our investigators. He agreed with NS&I that it was the 
pandemic that caused the delays and this wasnt something NS&I could be held responsible 
for given the unprecedented nature of the situation.
The trustees didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view NS&I delayed 
completing the transactions. They also said they dont believe the staff shortages due to the 
pandemic was the reason why the transaction was delayed. And they feel the date of 14 
December 2020 recorded on the bond statement denoting the withdrawal date was actually 
that, but no one processed it correctly hence the delay in paying the monies. They also 
raised the matter that NS&I should have had business continuity plan in pace which would 
have allowed it to maintain its busines as usual during the pandemic.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
While much information has been provided by the trustees in making this complaint the 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented by the trustees and NS&I, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. So I hope the trustees wont take 
the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy.
There can be no doubt that NS&I took too long to encash the monies the trust requested. 
This would normally have taken five working days to validate the request and two days for 
the monies to clear. But in this case, it took about one month for the transaction to be 
competed.
But what I must consider is whether that delay was caused by something NS&I did or was 
due to mistakes NS&I made.
NS&I has said that the main reason for the delay was the impact of the pandemic restrictions 
to its business and its normal business activities. Its explained that homeworking wasnt 
available so the majority of customer service and support staff continued to work from the 
office. But existing offices had to be adapted to ensure social distancing was in place 
thereby reducing the number of workers on any given day. Staff also had to follow the 
government guidelines if they had become ill or were at risk of getting ill. Its also said during 
the peaks of the pandemic additional offices had to be opened to allow additional staff 
recruitment and it had to relocate staff  who didnt work directly on NS &I processes of roles 
considered non-essential at the time.
In addition it explained all customers who submitted a high value repayment request 
(£50,000 or more) by post were affected, as lower value withdrawals didnt carry the same 
risks so additional checks werent necessary and werent delayed. And at its peak there 
were 1,500-1,700 outstanding cases compared to business as usual amount of 25-50 cases.
In my view, it isnt unreasonable that NS&I struggled to keep on top if its work during this 
time. The pandemic was an unprecedented moment in time which had huge ongoing 
consequences for many businesses and the financial industry was greatly affected as a 
whole.  So I am satisfied that the reasons NS& I has put forward for the delay is valid. 
I know the trustees have argued that the transaction could still have been completed earlier 
despite the effect of the pandemic and that the delay was in fact due to a mistake on NS&Is 
part. This is based on a bond statement which shows the date of 14 December 2020 
recorded as the date of withdrawal as well as some comments made by an NS&I operator 
during a call on 19 January 2021. But NS&I has stated that the date on the statement is the 
date the instruction was updated rather than the date the fund could have or should have 
been withdrawn. This seems a reasonable explanation and given the time frame to process 
high value withdrawal request was seven working days this date doesnt fall within those 
timeframes so this could never have been the date for the withdrawal in any case.
I appreciate that NS&I should have had a business continuity plan but I dont feel it is 
appropriate to penalise a business for not being able to demonstrate it had one. Nor do I 
think there is a way of knowing with certainty that any business plan would have definitely 
avoided all delays in the particular circumstances of this pandemic.
Overall, I havent seen anything to safely conclude NS&I did anything wrong or 
unnecessarily delayed processing the transfer. So while the transaction was delayed this 
wasnt down to anything sinister  it was simply because of the impact of the pandemic. And 
as these reasons were outside of NS&Is control it would therefore be unfair for NS&I to 
cover the investment loss incurred as a result of the delay.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and P 
Limited as trustees of the B SSAS to accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman