DRN-3190853
The complaint
Miss G complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) unfairly increased her 
renewal premium for her home insurance policy. She says she wasnt told that the price 
could change. 
What happened
Miss G had a home insurance policy with Hastings. Her policy was due for renewal on 20 
February 2021. She received a renewal invitation dated 22 January 2021. This included a 
rebuild figure of £318,000. And a sum insured of £500,000. The renewal premium was 
£176.49. 
Miss G recently had work completed on her home, so wanted to check the rebuild cost 
declared. So she called Hastings on 2 February 2021 to check her policy details. She said 
shed been viewing online comparison sites just before that call.
Hastings agent confirmed that her policy allowed a rebuild cost up to £500,000. Miss G 
asked the agent if changing the rebuild cost would affect the premium and was told it 
shouldnt. So she asked to increase the original rebuild figure quoted in her renewal 
documents from £318,000 to £500,000.
So Hastings agent updated the system and told Miss G her new premium would be 
£283.57. He was able to reduce this to £216.97 when Miss G asked if he could honour the 
original renewal premium. But he couldnt get the original renewal price back. 
Miss G asked to cancel her renewal and bought her home insurance elsewhere. She had to 
pay £53.79 more for that policy. She complained to Hastings.
In its final response letter, Hastings acknowledged that Miss G was unhappy that its agent 
hadnt been able to offer her the original renewal price. But said that it felt its agent had 
followed the correct process to try to get the most competitive price it could offer to Miss G. It 
acknowledged that Miss G was unhappy that its agent hadnt advised her that her renewal 
premium could increase. But said that its agents werent currently scripted to tell its 
customers this. It upheld Miss Gs complaint as it felt the agent couldve prepared her for the 
increase. And said it would provide feedback to the agent. It didnt offer any compensation.
Unhappy with this response, Miss G brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
felt it should be upheld. He felt that Hastings agent shouldnt have made Miss G believe that 
changing the rebuild cost shouldnt impact the price. He felt that in order to put her back in 
the position she wouldve been in, Hastings should pay her £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused.
Hastings didnt agree with our investigator. It said within a matter of minutes of its agents 
mistake in saying it shouldnt a new price had been quoted. So Miss G was made aware 
straightaway that the price had increased. It didnt think that itd caused Miss G any impact.  
Hastings asked for details of the new policy Miss G had taken out to check the cover shed 
purchased. This showed that shed purchased £500,000 of rebuild cover, which was the 
standard minimum her new provider offered.
So Hastings asked our investigator why he felt £75 for distress and inconvenience was fair. 
It said: 
1. It made a mistake on the call. This was identified on the call so there was no prolonged 
upset from the information. 
2. The customer had already shopped around to find the best renewal price so there was no 
inconvenience/detriment.
3. The customer used the same updated rebuild cost for her new policy which showed that 
the change was required. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has come to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 November 2021. It said: 
I have carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
In complaints like this I normally ask myself two questions: 
1. did the business do something wrong, or treat the consumer unfairly? 
2. did that lead to the consumer suffering (eg a financial loss, distress, inconvenience) 
unnecessarily? 
Ill only generally uphold a complaint if the answer to both questions is yes. 
Theres no dispute that Hastings did something wrong. Its agent shouldnt have said that the 
policy amendment Miss G was considering shouldnt affect the cost of insurance. But as this 
was only part of the equation, I went on to consider how this affected Miss G. 
This service can only consider making an award for distress and inconvenience if the 
businesss mistake has resulted in adverse consequences for the complainant. If it hasnt 
then awarding compensation wont be appropriate.
In this case, although Miss G has had to pay more for her insurance, she is now receiving a 
higher level of cover. And that level of cover better reflects her risk. Miss G has told this 
service that the current rebuild sum assured is £500,000. So Im satisfied this was the 
correct amount that shouldve been covered under her original policy. Under the renewal 
quotation from Hastings only £318,000 was covered. When Miss G increased this to 
£500,000 during the renewal call the renewal premium increased. I dont consider that this is 
unfair or unreasonable, as an insurer must charge a premium which reflects the risk being 
taken on. 
I appreciate that a higher premium could be considered an adverse consequence for Miss G. 
I acknowledge that Miss G wasnt completely sure what her house should be insured for 
when she had the renewal call with Hastings. And I understand that she only changed the 
rebuild sum assured after Hastings agent had told her it shouldnt affect the premium. But I 
dont have evidence that Hastings incorrectly priced the change she informed them of. I agree with Hastings that the rebuild cost shouldnt change based on whether or not the 
customer wants to pay a higher premium. And I also agree that Hastings cant knowingly 
underinsure a customer when its been told a value on risk should be increased. It is a 
condition of insurance that the customer must provide the correct information at renewal. So 
Im satisfied that it wasnt possible for Hastings to honour the original renewal premium after 
the call with Miss G.
Hastings has apologised that its agent didnt manage Miss Gs expectations on the premium 
during the renewal call. Based on what Ive seen, the agents mistake on the call didnt 
cause Miss G a financial impact. This is because she always had to insure the correct 
rebuild sum assured. 
Hastings said that Miss G had already shopped around for the best renewal price. And that 
she ended up finding a quote that was cheaper than its best offer. So it considers there was 
no inconvenience caused. 
I know this will be very disappointing to Miss G. But as Im satisfied there was no financial 
impact on her, and that she wasnt caused any inconvenience, I cant agree that 
compensation for distress and inconvenience is appropriate. And as Hastings has already 
apologised for the agents mistake on the renewal call, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to ask it to do anything more.
Response to my provisional decision
Neither Miss G or Hastings responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman