DRN-3352997
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax did not make additional 
authorised card holder information readily available to him on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr M has a credit card with Halifax. He says he wanted to check what additional card 
holders were registered on his credit card account. Mr M says he asked Halifax for this 
information and he complained to Halifax that it was not readily available to him. Mr M also 
complained to Halifax about them not providing contact details so he can contact them 
online and by email and also that with any correspondence he would need to include the 
account number, but their statements themselves dont include his account number.
Halifax did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said that they dont display the authorised 
user details for safety and security purposes. Halifax said that Mr M could also go to support 
on their mobile application to contact them. They also said that while Mr Ms statements 
might no longer display his full number, they would accept the digits quoted and take him 
through account verification if he called them. If he wrote to them then he would need to 
provide his name, address, postcode and account details for ease of assisting him with his 
query.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. He said the information about authorised card 
holders on his account hasnt been provided to him. Our investigator did not uphold the 
complaint. He explained that Halifax dont display the authorised user details for safety and 
security purposes. Halifaxs contact details are available in the mobile application and that 
they no longer display full card numbers for Halifax cards. He also said that Halifax told us 
they dont have a record of Mr M requesting the name of any authorised users, rather his 
complaint to them was about him being unable to see who the authorised card holders were. 
Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that it was ridiculous to 
suggest that Halifax were not requested to provide the authorised card holder information or 
that Halifax did not understand that Mr M wanted that information provided to him, yet they 
failed to provide him with that information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the
enforcer for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts
as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I
must be clear to Mr M from the outset that Im unable to tell Halifax how his account number 
should be displayed on his account statements and how they allow a customer to 
communicate with them - including where they display contact information. Im also unable to 
tell Halifax that they should make additional card holder information available routinely as 
this is a business decision how they display  or dont display this information.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr M has regarding him requesting the additional 
authorised card holder(s) information from Halifax. Its clear from what Mr M has told our 
service that he believes they should have given him this information when he made a 
complaint. But in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to see evidence that Mr M has 
specifically asked Halifax for this information and that Halifax have not given Mr M this 
information. But Ive not been provided with any evidence that Mr M has specifically asked 
for this from Halifax and Ill explain why.
The complaint letter which Mr M sent to Halifax says please accept this as a further formal 
complaint that your systems provide no means by which I can see what additional 
cardholders are authorised on my account. I asked Mr M if he had previously asked Halifax 
for the details of the additional card holders to be sent to him and when he asked Halifax for 
this specifically (dates/times of any phone calls or copies of any correspondence he sent 
them). Mr M said that he had certainly asked for the information, but he provided no 
information regarding when he did this. 
So I asked Halifaxs to provide me with their credit card system notes from when the account 
was opened in 2016 to date. Halifax have confirmed to me that any phone calls would be 
automatically entered on the system. So as this would not rely on human intervention then 
this would show all of the times Mr Ms spoke to them on the phone.
But theres no evidence from the system notes that Mr M has asked them to send him the 
authorised card holders on his account. There are no details of any correspondence from Mr 
M asking Halifax for this information also. The system does show that they received the 
details of his complaint on 15 June 2021 which he had sent them on 10 June 2021.
So while Mr M wanted to obtain the details of any additional card holders on his account, Ive 
not been provided with any evidence that Mr M asked Halifax to send these details to him. 
The only comments Ive seen about additional card holders is when Mr M complained about 
Halifaxs systems providing him no means to see which additional card holders were 
authorised on his account. While I know Mr M will strongly disagree with me here, this is not 
the same thing as asking for the additional card holder details to be sent to him. I say this as 
the way Mr Ms complaint is worded, would  and did  lead Halifax to believe he was 
making a complaint against their systems and the information they display to him, as 
opposed to Mr M wanting Halifax to disclose any information regarding additional card 
holders on the account. 
The response from Halifax shows that Mr M would be able to contact them via their mobile 
application or by correspondence. It also shows where Mr M would be able to find their 
contact telephone number (although I understand this is not Mr Ms preferred choice of 
contacting Halifax). So Im satisfied if Mr M would have used any of these methods to 
specifically ask Halifax for details of who any additional card holders were on his account, 
then they would have provided Mr M these details, providing he gave them any identification 
details required for Halifax to verify it was genuinely Mr M requesting this information. So as 
Im unable to evidence that Mr M directly asked Halifax to provide him with the information of 
any authorised card holders on his account, it follows I wont be upholding the complaint. 
But as I know how important it is for Mr M to receive the additional authorised card holder 
information by post, Ive directly asked Halifax to send this to Mr M. Halifax have agreed to 
do this, so I hope this will bring some closure to Mr M. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman