DRN-2825692
The complaint
A Company which Ill refer to as P complains that American International Group UK 
Limited (AIG) unfairly declined a claim under its business protection insurance policy.
Mr P who is a director of P brings the complaint on Ps behalf.
What happened
P holds a business protection insurance policy with AIG. He made a claim on that policy to 
cover his losses arising from his business closure as a result of the national Government-
imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
AIG declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. Mr P 
didnt agree. He said he thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording for 
Infectious Diseases, meant that his claim should be covered.
Mr P complained to AIG but it explained that, although his policy would provide cover in the 
event of certain diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named diseases. Mr 
P wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Ps complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that, 
while he sympathises with Mr Ps situation, he didnt think there was cover available under 
the policy. Mr P didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ps business, but I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why. 
P is looking to claim on his business protection insurance policy. These types of policies 
offer protection from risks common to business but there are a range of business protection 
insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. When considering 
whether AIG acted fairly in declining Ps claim, the starting point is to consider the specific 
policy he took out. 
Having reviewed Ps policy, I dont think there are any terms which provide cover for the 
closure of his business as a result of the Governments response to the national pandemic. 
However, I would like to explain why I dont think the parts of the policy which appear most 
relevant provide cover.
Ps policy included cover for Infectious Diseases. The extension states that it provides cover 
for interruption of or interference with Your Business in consequence of closure of the 
Premises or part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any government or local 
authority as a result ofany human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding 
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by 
any person whilst at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises.
The policy provides a definition for Disease, which sets out a list of specified illnesses that 
are covered under the policy. However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
I realise that COVID-19 wasnt something AIG would have known about when the policy was 
drafted, but there are other policies that were on the market that do provide cover for the 
pandemic  usually policies that cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and updated 
on a Government defined list. In contrast, Ps policy sets out a specific list of illnesses which 
are covered by the policy. And having reviewed the policy wording, there is nothing which 
implies that it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which might 
emerge. So I think the purpose of the policy is to provide cover in the event of the specific 
illnesses listed and I dont think the policy can or should fairly be interpreted as covering any 
illnesses that arent specified in the list set out in the policy.
The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would 
extend to cover COVID-19. However, I dont think SARS and COVID-19 are the same 
disease. The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. 
And the World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses 
are different, and it announced that COVID-19 was the name of this new disease on 11 
February 2020. So based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that 
these two diseases are the same and therefore I dont think Ps claim is covered under the 
list of specified illnesses set out in the policy.
Ps policy also provides cover for loss resulting from Damage or Denial of Access. However, 
I dont think anything in that wording extends to damage caused to the business itself by way 
of a specified illness or disease such as COVID-19, or even a Government-imposed act. 
Rather, these terms refer to physical damage or loss and I havent seen anything to indicate 
that COVID-19 caused damage to property  so I dont think these sections cover Ps claim.
Mr P has referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case. Ps policy has a definitive 
list of specified diseases and this kind of policy wasnt the subject of the test case, so it 
doesnt change my decision. And while Im sorry to hear about the financial impact the 
Government-imposed lockdown had on P, having taken everything into account and having 
considered the remaining terms of the policy, I dont think AIG acted unfairly in declining his 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman