DRN-3051009
The complaint
Mr K and Miss M complain that Santander UK Plc unfairly blocked their account.
What happened
Mr K says he was paid just under £10,000 from someone he knew in June 2020. He says 
the money was for medical treatment for his family abroad, but Santander blocked his 
account. Mr K says he was unable to send the money abroad and his family member passed 
away shortly after the account block was applied. He would like Santander to pay for the 
burial costs and pay compensation for the distress caused.
Santander says it had security concerns and so applied the block. It says Mr K provided 
details of the origin of the money, but the sending bank carried out further checks which led 
to a delay. It also says it is entitled to place restrictions on accounts in these circumstances 
and didnt tell Mr K the checks would be carried out within 48 hours.
Mr K and Miss M brought their complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The 
investigator thought Santander was entitled to restrict account use whilst it carried out 
security checks. And didnt think it was responsible for the delay caused by the other bank.
Mr K and Miss M dont accept that view and say they ought to have been clearly told how 
long the checks would take.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr K and Miss M will be disappointed by my decision and I am sorry to read 
about their family member.
I am satisfied that banks and building societies must have security and fraud measures in 
place to protect their money and their customers money. I accept that on occasions 
legitimate transactions and genuine account holders can experience delay and 
inconvenience as a result of such account restrictions. But that doesnt mean as in this case 
Santander has acted unfairly or made a mistake.
Im satisfied that Santander was entitled to place restrictions on Mr K and Miss Ms account. 
I have listened to the telephone call between Mr K and Santander and am satisfied Mr K was 
told it would aim to review the documents he provided within 48 hours but explained it 
couldnt say how long the restrictions would be in place.
Im also satisfied that having looked at Santanders records that the majority of the delay in 
removing the account restrictions was caused by the third-party bank carrying out its own 
checks. I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for that delay and dont think it had any 
control on those checks.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander was entitled to restrict the account access and that it carried 
out the required checks within a reasonable time period. I find Santander told Mr K that it 
couldnt say when the restrictions would be removed. It follows that I cant fairly order 
Santander pay the compensation Mr K would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman