DRN-3081772
The complaint
Ms H complains that TSB Bank Plc didnt do enough to help her when she was the victim of 
a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
On 13 July 2020 Ms H received an e-mail asking her to renew her TV licence. She followed 
the link on the e-mail and provided both her personal and banking details. Ms H checked 
whether the TV licence had been renewed and when she was told it hadnt, she was worried 
about her personal details, so she went to her local TSB branch who gave her the fraud 
teams telephone number. After waiting on hold to try and speak to the fraud team and 
listening to the recorded hold message, Ms H didnt continue with the call as she didnt 
consider her issue to be an emergency, nor did she consider herself to be vulnerable. So, 
she logged into her online banking, cancelled her debit cards and requested a new card and 
PIN number  she also did this for her credit card. 
On 14 July 2020 Ms H was called by someone purporting to be from TSB. Ms H was asked if 
she had made some transactions on her account that day which she denied. The person 
then persuaded Ms H that her money was in danger so he asked her to transfer £7,000.02 
from her individual savings account (ISA) to her bank account and then to someone she 
trusts so they can then send it on to the ISA he was setting up for her. Ms H said she was 
persuaded to do this because the person was calling from a recognised TSB phone number 
and sent her what looked like official TSB text messages. Ms H then selected a trusted 
account she could send the money to. She called her friend, explained the situation, and 
provided the new ISA account details for the money to be sent to. The money was then sent 
by Ms H to her friend who holds an account with another bank and then to the new ISA 
account. The person who called Ms H then said she would receive a text the following 
morning to help her log back into her online account.
 
After not receiving a text message the next day Ms H contacted TSB to report the scam but 
was unhappy to be told her money couldnt be refunded and that her friend should try to 
claim this back from her bank instead. 
Ms H logged into her online account and was surprised to see the scammer had applied for 
a £3,000 overdraft in her name. She tried to contact the fraud team to make it aware of what 
had happened, but she said she was told she needed to call back within the fraud teams 
normal working hours. Ms H called back and made a complaint to TSB about the way the 
matter was handled and that her money couldnt be refunded. 
TSB reviewed the complaint but decided not to refund the money to Ms H. It said that 
because Ms Hs money was sent to a trusted beneficiary on her account before it was sent 
to the scammer, the fraud didnt occur on her account  so it wasnt covered by its fraud 
guarantee. But it confirmed the overdraft had been removed from her account and her credit 
file would be amended. And it offered her £100 for the service it provided to Ms H when she 
raised the scam. 
Ms H remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. She 
said the TSB fraud guarantee says it will refund her if she has been the innocent victim of 
fraud on her account. So, the money she lost should be refunded. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he was satisfied it 
wasnt the transfer of money from Ms Hs account that led to the loss. Instead he said it was 
the transfer from Ms Hs friends account to the scammer which was the actual cause of her 
loss. So, he didnt think TSB had done anything wrong here. And he thought the £100 TSB 
had offered was fair. 
Ms H didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said she was the innocent 
victim of a scam which TSBs fraud guarantee says is covered. She added that transferring 
the money to her friends account was only a small part of what happened. And that her 
money was supposed to be looked after by TSB. So, her money should be refunded. 
I considered the complaint and felt it should be upheld. I told TSB I was minded to say that 
Ms H should have her money refunded because she had been an innocent victim of fraud. I 
noted that the TSB website explains the range of cover its fraud guarantee includes when 
compared to other banks. And that it wasnt clear enough on TSBs website that payments 
made during a scam, which were first made to a trusted beneficiary on a consumers 
account, wouldnt be covered. But I felt the £100 it had offered was fair. 
TSB disagreed. It said Ms H made a payment to a legitimate account and the funds were 
received by the intended beneficiary. So, it said there was no loss on the TSB account and 
its fraud guarantee doesnt apply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider here whether the money Ms H has lost should be covered under TSBs 
fraud guarantee and whether TSB has treated Ms H fairly and reasonably. Ive considered 
what both sides have said carefully. Having done so, I believe TSB should refund Ms H with 
the £7,000.02 she lost as a result of this scam. 
Ms H said that she was the innocent victim of fraud on her account which TSBs guarantee 
says is covered. Shes explained the scammer contacted her about her TSB accounts and 
persuaded her to transfer money out of her ISA, into her account and then to a trusted 
beneficiary. The scammer then provided details of a new account for Ms Hs friend to 
transfer the funds to. Whilst Ms H was speaking to the scammer an overdraft was taken out 
in her name. 
TSB disagrees. It says for its guarantee to apply, the fraud must happen on its customers 
account and there can be no intervening transfer between Ms Hs account and the 
scammers. So, the loss didnt occur on Ms Hs account  it occurred when her friend 
transferred the money to the scammer. 
TSBs website explains that its fraud guarantee, which was in place at the time of the scam, 
is a first in UK banking and it goes further to cover TSB customers against fraud than 
anything that has come before it. Ms H has correctly pointed out that TSBs website explains 
that if she is clearly an innocent victim of fraud on her account, the money she lost will be refunded  even if she makes an honest mistake. And Ive seen on the website there is a 
reference to the range of cover the fraud guarantee provides when compared to what is 
offered by other banks;
How is the TSB Fraud Refund Guarantee different to what other banks offer?
At the moment, there are certain times where banks are legally obliged to refund customers, 
however even these have loopholes. Our guarantee covers customers who are clearly 
innocent victims of fraud on their TSB account.
After reading TSBs website, Im satisfied that what happened to Ms H should be fairly and 
reasonably covered under its guarantee. Thats because the wording of TSBs guarantee 
implies that you will be covered if youre an innocent victim of fraud on your account (which 
Im satisfied Ms H was) unless any of the exclusions apply. 
So, after considering the wording of TSBs fraud guarantee, I believe its intention is to refund 
innocent victims of fraud  and Ms H is clearly an innocent victim here. A scammer 
contacted her to defraud her of the money that was in her TSB account. The scammer also 
successfully took out an overdraft in Ms Hs name at the time of the scam. So, its clear to 
me the scam took place on Ms Hs account and the intention was to remove all the money 
the scammer could obtain from her TSB account by telling Ms H to send the money to a 
trusted beneficiary in the knowledge that this was more likely to be successfully transferred 
than setting up a new payee. 
TSB hasnt raised any of the exclusions as a reason for declining Ms Hs claim here because 
it doesnt think the fraud happened on Ms Hs account. But Ive considered the exclusions or 
times where the guarantee doesnt apply section of the guarantee anyway. These explain 
that the guarantee doesnt apply where Ms H is involved in committing the fraud or if she has 
abused the guarantee by deliberately ignoring account safety information and/or making 
repeated claims. It also doesnt apply where Ms H is disputing transactions where goods or 
services havent met her expectations or if the authorised transaction/s (£7,000.02 here) is 
over £1 million. 
After considering these exclusions, Im satisfied that Ms Hs situation doesnt apply to any of 
them. Ms H wasnt involved in committing the fraud  she was an innocent victim of a 
common safe account scam and Im not satisfied she deliberately ignored account safety 
information. In fact, Im satisfied Ms H tried to protect her account by cancelling her cards 
and requesting new PIN numbers the day before the scammer called her. Unfortunately, the 
scammer used common but persuasive scam techniques by cloning TSBs telephone 
numbers to gain her trust. He also had access to her personal and banking information due 
to Ms H completing the fake TV licence renewal form.  And her loss isnt over £1 million, nor 
do I consider her to be abusing the guarantee in the circumstances. 
I understand the point TSB is making here that the money wasnt sent directly to the 
scammer in this instance, but I dont consider the wording of its fraud guarantee to be clear 
enough to exclude such a common technique used by scammers. I believe that a 
reasonable person would consider Ms Hs loss to be covered under the fraud guarantee as it 
stands. And if TSB wants to exclude this common type of scam, then it should be more 
specific, within its fraud guarantee, about what is and isnt covered. 
The service TSB provided 
Ms H is unhappy with the way TSB dealt with this issue when she raised the scam. TSB has 
closed the overdraft taken out by the scammer, said Ms Hs credit file wouldnt be affected 
and paid her £100 in recognition of the distress it caused. Im satisfied that TSB shouldve handled the raising of the scam more sensitively. I understand the £100 isnt what Ms H 
wanted from this complaint, but I can only consider how much compensation shes entitled to 
based upon the way TSB dealt with her the scam she raised. And £100 seems reasonable to 
me and is in line with what Id expect in similar cases.
Putting things right
Im satisfied Ms Hs loss should be fairly and reasonably covered under TSBs fraud 
guarantee. So, it should refund her £7,000.02 and pay her interest at the rate she was 
receiving in her ISA from the date she transferred the money to her friend to the date of 
settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
TSB Bank Plc must:
Pay £7,000.02 to Ms H within 28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of 
my decision;
Pay interest on that sum at the rate Ms H was receiving from her ISA from the date 
she transferred the money to her friend to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman