DRN-3011570
The complaint
Mrs F complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Debenhams unfairly registered a default on her 
credit file.
What happened
Mrs F says she left the United Kingdom (UK) in or around July 2018 and repaid her 
Debenhams credit card account. She says on her return to the UK some time later she found 
out a default had been registered on her credit file. Mrs F says no attempt was made by 
Debenhams to contact her via e-mail and says the debt was relatively small. She also 
questions why the debt was sold and a default registered and in summary would like the 
default removed from her credit file.
Debenhams says it sent numerous letters and statements to Mrs F about the debt and also 
tried to contact her via telephone. It says it correctly registered a default for the debt when it 
wasnt repaid.
Mrs F brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Debenhams had sent numerous letters to Mrs F about her debt and made about 16 
attempts to contact her via telephone. The investigator didnt think Debenhams was obliged 
to make contact via e-mail and thought the amount of the debt irrelevant. 
Mrs F doesnt accept that view and says Debenhams refused to remove the default when 
she explained the circumstances which she says is the crux of the complaint. She also says 
letters would not generally be responded to if not received by the intended recipients.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at Mrs Fs account statements which I think were correctly sent to 
her. I can see that in June 2018 she was required to make a payment of £224.37 which she 
did on 19 July 2018. But I can also see that on 5 July 2018 Mrs F used her credit card for a 
transaction of £63.59 which attracted a foreign use fee of £1.75. So, Im satisfied Mrs F 
didnt repay the account balance and close the account as she thought at or around that 
time. And Im satisfied that she owed Debenhams that balance and as it wasnt repaid 
charges were added to it in line with account terms and conditions.
I appreciate Mrs F may have made a mistake or forgotten about the transaction on 5 July 
2018. But that is not something I can fairly hold Debenhams responsible for and I also think 
it was Mrs Fs responsibility to manage her account and be aware of her spending. It follows 
that I dont think Debenhams made a mistake or acted unfairly by registering a default on 
Mrs Fs credit file when the balance wasnt repaid.
Im satisfied that Debenhams sent Mrs F numerous letters about the outstanding balance 
and also tried to contact her via telephone. I think its up to Debenhams to decide how it 
contacts its customers and that it is entitled to decide if it wishes to sell a debt to a third-party 
business. I appreciate Mrs F questions why a default was registered for a relatively small 
balance but again I think its up to Debenhams to decide on such matters when exercising its 
commercial judgement.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mrs F used her credit car account in early July 2018 and ought 
reasonably to have been aware of that and that the debt needed repaying. As she didnt 
repay the debt, regardless of the circumstances, Im satisfied Debenhams was reasonably 
entitled to register a default and didnt act unfairly or make a mistake by doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman