DRN-2896424
The complaint
Mrs C complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited have unfairly turned 
down a claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
On 17 September 2020 Mrs C took out her policy. In January 2021 Mrs Cs dog needed 
some tests to determine if he had a cruciate ligament (CCL) rupture in his right leg. This was 
turned down by Red Sands as they said it was a pre-existing condition and covered by a 
bilateral exclusion  which essentially meant because Mrs Cs dog had an issue in one leg, 
the other leg would be treated as having the condition as well and excluded under the policy.
Mrs C said her dog had a left CCL rupture in 2016, but there was no mention this would be 
treated as a bilateral condition and excluded. She also said two weeks before she took out 
the policy shed been to the vet and there was nothing mentioned about the right leg so she 
couldnt have told them there was an issue. She said shed never heard of a bilateral 
condition before, and thought it was unfair this was applied by an insurance company. She 
said she also felt the information should have been better highlighted when taking out the 
policy as well  as it wasnt clear. So, she complained.
This decision only deals with whether the claim has been fairly assessed or not, it doesnt 
deal with whether the policy was mis-sold.
Red Sands said a CCL rupture in dogs is typically a chronic disease which slowly 
degenerates over time and symptoms can be subtle or absent leading up to the rupture. 
They said Mrs C accepted when taking out the policy this kind of issue would be excluded  
and quoted the relevant policy terms. They also added an exclusion onto Mrs Cs policy for 
both stifles (equivalent of the knees) from 17 September 2020.
Unhappy with this Mrs C asked us to look into things. 
One of our investigators did so. In summary he didnt think Red Sands had applied the policy 
terms fairly because our approach is where we think two occurrences of the same condition 
arent linked then insurers shouldnt automatically exclude a condition in the other body part. 
He said the conditions were the same in name only, and there was nothing to show Mrs Cs 
dog was suffering from a degenerative condition such as cruciate disease which would link 
the two conditions. Because of that, he felt Red Sands should pay the cost of the claim, 8% 
interest on this from the date Mrs C paid it and the date it was settled, plus £100 
compensation.
Red Sands didnt accept this. They said the policy terms were clear and didnt think it right to 
disregard them. They also said they ask people when theyre taking out the policy if their pet 
has been to the vets and, if so, to call them. Mrs C answers no to this question, so they 
didnt speak to her  but had they have done so, then theyd have applied an exclusion for 
the stifles on to the policy at the start.
Our investigator thought the complaint should still be upheld, so its been passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms Red Sands have relied on are, under exclusions:
1.3.1 Any Pre-existing condition or claim for costs relating to an injury or illness that relates 
to or results from an accident, injury, illness or clinical signs your pet had before the 
commencement date
And in the policy summary it says:
If your pet has received treatment for a particular illness or injury which appears in another 
part of the body at a later date, for example the other leg, ear or eye, we will treat this as the 
same condition. This is known as a bilateral condition. When applying a benefit or 
exclusion, bilateral conditions are considered as one condition.
So I think from a strict interpretation of the policy terms, Mrs Cs claim wouldnt be covered. 
But my remit is to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, not just to 
check Red Sands have correctly applied the policy terms.
Bilateral conditions
Our general approach to bilateral conditions is unless theres evidence that demonstrates 
the first condition led to the second condition  or the second condition was noted as likely 
going to happen at some point in the future at the time of the first condition being diagnosed 
 they should be treated as two independent conditions.
Theres nothing in the vets notes from the first surgery for the left leg in 2016 that theres a 
degenerative condition which might lead to problems with the right leg in future. And in the 
notes recorded two weeks before Mrs C took out the policy on 17 September 2020 again 
theres no mention of any problems in the right leg. But these notes do talk about the 
previous cruciate surgery on the left leg. So, its clear the vet was aware of the history, and I 
think more likely than not would have said there was a problem with the right leg if there was 
one at the time. As theres no mention of this, and the incidents are four years apart, I cant 
reasonably say the conditions are linked. 
Because of that, this needs to be treated as a new condition.
Pre-existing condition
Although I take Red Sands point that they ask people to call them if their pet has been to the 
vets for anything other than routine vaccinations, I still need to consider whats fair in all the 
circumstances.
Here, I dont think its fair to treat this as a pre-existing condition. I say that because having 
found its a new condition, it cant then meet Red Sands definition of a pre-existing one.
In addition, the policy covers the issue anyway, and had Mrs C called then an exclusion 
would have been placed  but Id expect those exclusions to be revisited. So, given the time 
gap of four years, I think wed be in the same position anyway.
SummaryFor the reasons Ive explained above Red Sands needs to treat this as a new condition. I 
note theyve said theyd have applied an exclusion had Mrs C called them when taking out 
the policy. I think its likely had this happened, Id still think it unfair for Red Sands to exclude 
cover for this condition for Mrs C.
As I dont think they should have done this, I also think its fair to pay £100 compensation as 
well for the trouble Mrs C has been put to.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint and require Red Sands to:
Pay Mrs C the cost of the claim
Pay 8%* interest from the date of Mrs C settling the vets bill, to the date of settlement
Pay £100 compensation.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Red Sands to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Red Sands must give Mrs a certificate showing how much tax theyve 
deducted if she asks them for one.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to carry out 
the actions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman