DRN-4014439
The complaint
Mr E complains that AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) has unfairly declined a claim made 
under a New Home Warranty.
Any reference to Mr E or AmTrust includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known to both parties, so Ive summarised events.
In September 2020, Mr E bought a property that was covered by a New Home 
Warranty. This warranty began in 2014 and provides cover for ten years, covering 
certain insured events.
In October 2020, the property was let to tenants who reported issues. Following 
investigation from a plumber, it was recommended floor joists in the en-suite would 
need to be replaced and bathroom walls rebuilt.
A claim was made to AmTrust which it declined. It said the damage in question 
originated from escaping water from a heating system and toilet plumbing. And the 
circumstances did not meet either of the following requirements under the policy:
3.1. The reasonable cost of rectifying or repairing major physical damage 
which is caused by a failure by the developer to comply with the 
requirements in the construction of the new home. 
3.2. The reasonable cost of rectifying a present or imminent danger to the 
physical health and safety of the occupants of the new home caused by its 
failure to comply with the Building Regulations that were in force at the time 
the Building Notice was deposited with the Local Authority...
This claim was subject to a final decision that I issued in November 2021  in which I 
was satisfied AmTrust had fairly declined the claim as the damage in question was 
not caused by a failure of the developer to comply with requirements in the 
construction of the new home (under 3.1), nor was there anything to show this was 
caused by a failure to comply with any Building Regulations (under 3.2).
Following this decision, Mr E made a further claim. This related to an adjoining 
bathroom that was not subject to the original claim. Mr E says this was a similar 
problem that was due to faulty installation  that the developer shouldve used marine 
plywood instead of standard plywood flooring which wouldve prevented warping and 
helped prevent the joists rotting when the faulty underfloor heating leaked.
AmTrust considered this claim for the adjoining bathroom. It said the nature of the 
damage reported under this claim (rotting floorboards and joints, broken underfloor 
heating) matched the previous 2021 claim.
AmTrust said there was no new evidence to support any new cause of damage, and 
all the characteristics mirrored the previous claim so it declined this  as the original 
cause of damage was not Major Physical Damage in line with the policy wording.
The complaint was brought back to this Service and one of our Investigators looked 
into what happened. He concluded the damage to this second bathroom had the 
same cause as the original claim. And as a result wasnt covered under 3.1 or 3.2. of 
the warranty. He said the new evidence about the choice to use plywood did not 
change the primary cause of the damage  which was the leaking cistern and heating 
unit. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr E disagreed, saying he felt the damage should be covered by the policy and 
reiterated the extent of the damage that had been caused.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
For the avoidance of doubt, this decision relates only to the most recent claim Mr E 
has made. I will not be reconsidering matters covered by my previous final decision.
I have focused on the crux of this matter within this decision.
In Mr Es own submissions, hes referred to the damage occurring as being similar as 
the previous claim. And seemingly he doesnt dispute the cause originates from the 
leaking cistern and underfloor heating  which is identical to the previous claim.
So, Ill look over the policy terms for this claim. 
Ill start with section 3.1 (that is quoted above). The damage to the areas of the 
property in question was simply not caused by a failure of the developer to comply 
with requirements in the construction of the new home. This damage was caused by 
the leaking heating and toilet - neither meet the definition of major physical damage 
as they are not load bearing elements of the home. So, Im satisfied AmTrust has 
declined this claim fairly under this section of the policy.
Under section 3.2 (quoted above)  there is a requirement for a present and 
imminent danger to have been caused by a failure to comply with Building 
Regulations in place at the time. Mr E hasnt given me anything to show there is a 
failure to comply with any specific Regulations, so Im satisfied this part of the claim 
has also been fairly declined.
Mr E has provided comments from one of his contractors that hes asked me to 
consider. They said:
Lifted floors to find the original installers had not laid marine ply or tanked the 
floor meaning what could have been avoided ending up in needing an entire 
new floor.
Ive been given no reason to question this opinion, and it seems likely to me based 
on this evidence that the damage may have been more limited in scope had the 
developer used this different choice of material. However, none of this has any 
bearing on the cause of the actual damage. So, for the above reasons, this does not 
change my mind. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman