DRN-1511051
 
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy that she has missed an investment opportunity with Principality Building 
Society  something she thinks they ought to have notified her about. 
What happened
In 2014, Miss F says she opened two investment accounts with Principality. She invested 
£5,940 in one of the accounts  this was a five year fixed rate ISA. And later intended on 
sending Principality a cheque to invest in the other account.
Miss F wrote the cheque and asked her ex-partner to post it for her. It later transpired that 
her ex-partner didnt post the cheque but instead wrote another out for the same sum and 
paid it to himself. This isnt something Miss F realised at the time, given that the exact figure 
was debited from her account as expected.
It wasnt until years later that Miss F discovered the actions of her ex-partner, which 
appeared to have spanned far wider than this occasion alone. Through those investigations, 
she found about what had happened here. 
Miss F felt that had Principality have called or written to her to let her know one of the 
accounts remained unfunded, shed have known sooner what had happened. She made a 
complaint as shed missed out on the interest she could have earned. 
Principality looked into her concerns but didnt think theyd done anything wrong  they 
couldnt find the second account but said it would have been closed had it remained 
unfunded. They also said they wouldnt be paying any interest out now given no money was 
invested. Unhappy with this, Miss F asked for our help.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but she didnt think Principality had 
done anything wrong. Miss F remained unhappy  she said that as the money had debited 
from her account she wasnt to know her investment hadnt been made. She felt that 
notification about the account closure ought to have come from Principality and she is the 
innocent party here. So her case was passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
 
Its clear that Miss F finds herself in a very unfortunate situation here and it appears that the 
misappropriation of this money was only a small part of a wider undertaking by her ex-partner. I am very sorry to hear about that. But while Miss F is indeed an innocent party, 
what I have to decide here is whether Principality have done anything wrong in this case. 
As our investigator said, on page four of Principalitys terms and conditions which were 
applicable at the time it said:
General Terms
Opening Accounts
1. ... If we have not received the minimum Investment required for your Account to be 
opened (as specified in the Account Terms) within 40 Business Days of the date when 
we receive your completed application form, your Account will be closed
As Principality cannot trace the second account Miss F says she opened, it would appear 
that it would have been closed in line with the term above. 
The terms didnt require Principality to write to Miss F should this happen. So while I 
appreciate her point in that she wasnt to know her account went unfunded, it doesnt 
therefore follow Principality are at fault or that they should compensate her as if she had 
invested. Instead, it appears that Principality simply followed the process set out in their own 
terms.
So although I understand Miss Fs frustration, I cannot see Principality have made an error 
or acted unreasonably here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Principality Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman