DRN-3841172
The complaint
Ms H complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) renewed her car 
insurance policy without her agreement. Shes also unhappy they then charged her a £20 
fee to cancel the policy. 
What happened
Ms H took out car insurance using Hastings as the broker. The policy year ended, and       
Ms Hs policy then renewed automatically. Ms H says she never gave permission, or 
selected any option, for the policy to automatically renew. Ms H raised this with Hastings the 
same day the policy renewed and they charged her £20 to cancel her policy. Ms H 
complained to Hastings and they explained theyd sent Ms H a renewal invitation letting her 
know her policy would renew automatically. They also explained the renewal invitation set 
out their fees and this included a £20 arrangement fee which is non-refundable if the policy 
is cancelled. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms H. She thought Hastings hadnt acted unfairly.    
Ms H disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms H will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Ms Hs policy documents when she took out the policy the previous year. 
I can see a cover summary was sent to Ms H and under the heading Renewing your policy, 
it says We automatically renew most policies. This means if one of our insurers offers you a 
premium, well send you a renewal invitation at least 21 days before your policys due to end. 
Your new insurance cover will start on your renewal date, 1st August 2022. 
The Insurance Product Information Document which was sent to Ms H at the time says, 
under the heading When does the cover start and end?, Before your renewal date, well 
contact you to confirm your renewal termsMost of our policies are set to automatically 
renew which means your new cover will start on your renewal date unless you tell us 
otherwise.  
In line with the above, I can see Hastings did send a renewal invite at least 21 days before 
Ms Hs policy was due to end. This says Ms Hs policy is currently set up to renew 
automatically and will do so on the renewal date. It goes further to say, if Ms H is happy to 
renew, she wont need to take any steps and her policy documents will be sent to her and 
the premium will then be due. The invite also sets out the steps Ms H will need to take if she 
doesnt wish to renew. As Ms H didnt contact Hastings, or take alternative steps to opt out of 
the automatic renewal process, the policy was renewed. 
Hastings say they include the automatic renewal process to ensure their customers arent 
ever uninsured by mistake. This isnt an uncommon practice within the insurance industry 
and, as Hastings say, it helps to protect customers from the serious risks which can be 
associated with being an uninsured driver. That said, I would expect a broker to ensure 
theyd given clear information to a customer about what the renewal process is and the steps 
a customer can take if they dont want their policy to renew automatically. In respect of both 
of these points, I think Hastings have given clear information about this when Ms H first took 
out the policy and again in the renewal invite. So, from the information Ive seen, I cant say 
Hastings have acted unfairly in renewing Ms Hs policy. 
I note Ms H has referred to the wording in the policy documents which says Hastings will 
renew most policies, but she feels there was no confirmation her policy would definitely be 
renewed automatically. I do acknowledge Ms Hs point, but this same section Ms H refers to 
goes further to say her new insurance cover will start on her renewal date of 1 August 2022. 
So, taking this together with there being no evidence Ms H opted out of automatic renewal, I 
think its reasonable to expect that Ms Hs policy was, more likely than not, within Hastings 
automatic renewal process. But, going beyond this, I think the renewal invite leaves no doubt 
that Ms Hs policy did fall within Hastings automatic renewal process and provides the 
confirmation that Ms Hs policy will be automatically renewed. 
I note Ms H says she never received the renewal invite by post or email but Ive seen a copy 
of the renewal invite and this is addressed correctly. Hastings have also provided system 
information which shows the renewal invite was uploaded to the online customer account 
and an email notification sent to Ms H. I note Ms H says she was abroad at the time so, 
while I acknowledge she wont have seen the renewal invite sent by post, I think Hastings 
have taken reasonable steps by sending the renewal invite using alternative methods of 
communication. 
I understand Ms H says its unfair for Hastings to lend her a sum of money to renew the 
policy and then demand this from her. I note Ms Hs point, but I dont agree this is a credit 
arrangement as such. Hastings havent lent any money and, while I accept the renewal took 
place before payment, the renewal invite does suggest Hastings will attempt to take payment 
from the card details they hold for Ms H. Its not clear whether any attempt was 
unsuccessful, but they then write to Ms H on 1 August to confirm her policy has renewed and 
ask for payment. In the circumstances, and in light of what Ive said above about Hastings 
automatic renewal process, I dont think theyve acted unreasonably here.  
      
I note Ms H remains concerned she was charged £20 when cancelling the policy. I think its 
important to clarify this isnt a cancellation fee but an arrangement fee Hastings charge for 
arranging new or renewal cover for each car on a policy. The documents sent to Ms H when 
she originally took out the policy and the renewal invite refer to an arrangement fee of £20. 
Both documents also confirm this fee is non-refundable if the policy is cancelled. I can see 
from the renewal invite the £20 arrangement fee has been included in the premium. So, 
given the arrangement fee relates to Hastings charge for setting up the renewal  which has 
happened here - it follows that I dont believe its reasonable for Hastings to refund the 
arrangement fee.         
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman