DRN-3590219
The complaint
Ms D complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly gave her a credit card account 
that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 9 February 2018, Ms D applied for a credit card account with NewDay. She was given 
an initial credit limit of £600. The credit limit was never increased. 
In 2021, Ms D complained to NewDay to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that NewDay ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. NewDay didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 27 June 2022, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Ms Ds complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Ms Ds complaint is that NewDay made credit available that was unaffordable. NewDay has 
explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of 
credit it was able to offer at each stage of its lending. Its possible that NewDay failed to 
make adequate checks before providing Ms D with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think 
better enquiries would have caused NewDay to think the initial credit limit was unaffordable. 
I say this because Ms D told NewDay at the point of sale that she was in receipt of income 
in retirement and that she had other income too. The initial credit limit was relatively 
modest and the maximum monthly payments for that credit would also have been 
relatively modest. Ive noted the default Ms D had prior to this, but Ive noted that was 
nearly a year before this lending decision was made. I have noted the existing borrowing 
but do not think this was so substantial as to make this lending automatically 
unreasonable. I have also noted that the credit was subsequently largely well managed by 
Ms D. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Ms D to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led NewDay to think that the credit it 
provided Ms D was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Ms D was 
managing her account or what NewDay could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Ms D will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Ms D to know that I 
listened to all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient 
evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 11 July 2022. NewDay have acknowledged receiving the decision 
and said they accept my provisional findings. Ms Ds representatives have acknowledged 
receiving the decision but, at the time of writing, they have not made any further submission 
or made a request for a time extension to do so. I think that Ms D has had sufficient time to 
make substantive further submissions if she had wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
not upholding Ms Ds complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman