DRN-1632782
 
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the success fee charged by Quickly Finance Limited (trading as Fast 
Track Reclaim) following a successful claim with lender LS. 
What happened
Quickly Finance say following an online enquiry made by Mr H through their website in 
September 2018, they received a signed authority form from Mr H, along with a 
questionnaire for lender LS. 
The authority form gave Quickly Finance permission to make a claim on behalf of Mr H 
about payday loans taken out with lender LS. The authority form confirmed it provided 
authority for all policies, and/or agreements and/or accounts that I/we have with your 
company. The authority form included the terms and conditions. This explained that if Mr Hs 
claim was successful, Quickly Finance would charge 30% plus VAT on any compensation. 
The terms and conditions also said that Mr H should promptly notify Quickly Finance if 
contacted by the lender.
Quickly Finance sent the claim to lender LS. Lender LS didnt respond, so Quickly Finance 
referred the claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 11 March 2019. On 22 March the 
Financial Ombudsman Service sent the claim to lender LS. Lender LS advised on 25 March 
that theyd not received a complaint from Quickly Finance, and that theyd look into the 
issues raised. On the same date lender LS emailed Mr H saying This is in reference to the 
FOS complaint received from Fast Track Reclaim on your behalf We are amidst reviewing 
this matter and would get back to you shortly. 
On 17 May lender LS wrote to Mr H making an offer in settlement of his claim for around 
£100. Quickly Finance contacted Mr H to discuss the claim in October. Mr H informed 
Quickly Finance that its all been sorted they paid me months ago. Quickly Finance 
asked for further details. Mr H said the call sounded like a scam, and terminated the call. 
Quickly Finance contacted lender LS and it was recorded second payment of £543.16 was 
paid to the client however they were unable to send us a copy of the offer letter as the client 
has revoked our authority. 
Quickly Finance sent Mr H their invoice for the payments made by lender LS. Mr H 
complained to Quickly Finance saying that hed dealt with lender LS himself, and he wouldnt 
be paying their success fee. Quickly Finance said theyd acted fairly by making the claim 
using the signed paperwork theyd received. Mr H didnt agree with Quickly Finances 
response. He paid the success fee invoice for the first amount of compensation received, but 
didnt think it was fair that Quickly Finance were charging him their success fee for the later 
compensation of £543.16, and referred his complaint to the Claims Management 
Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman Service) for us to investigate. 
The investigator found that Quickly Finance had acted reasonably in making the claim, and 
charging their invoices. Mr H said he asked Quickly Finance not to do any more work for him, and he sorted the claim out himself which led to the payment of £543.16. As the 
complaint couldnt be resolved its been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mr H. Having reviewed the case, I 
agree with the investigators findings, for broadly the same reasons, and I wont be 
recommending Quickly Finance do anything in settlement of this complaint.  
Mr H says he has evidence from lender LS confirming that theyd only dealt with him when 
considering his claim. The email from lender LS says we had dealt on this case directly with 
you and refund was carried our [out] from our end. This indicates that its likely lender LS 
dealt exclusively with Mr H after acknowledging the claim in March 2019. 
However Ive also seen an email from lender LS to Mr H on 25 March 2019 which explained 
This is in reference to the FOS complaint received from Fast Track Reclaim on your 
behalf We are amidst reviewing this matter and would get back to you shortly. So 
although lender LS informed Mr H in January 2020 that theyd dealt with the claim directly 
with him, its also evident that the claim was first brought to lender LS attention following a 
referral made to the Financial Ombudsman Service, and that the referral was made by 
Quickly Finance. I think its fair to say that Lender LS first found out about Mr Hs complaint 
because of the work done by Quickly Finance in sending the claim to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. I havent seen any evidence to indicate Mr H did this himself. 
Mr H feels strongly that he cancelled his contract with Quickly Finance as soon as he 
became involved with the claim directly with lender LS. Mr H has also referred to cancelling 
his contract when Quickly Finance contacted him in October 2019. Quickly Finance have no 
evidence of Mr H expressing any dissatisfaction with their service until October 2019 when 
they began chasing for their success fees to be paid. 
When there are different versions of whats happened provided by a business and a 
customer, we need to make a decision based on what we think has happened on balance. I 
dont doubt that what Mr H has told me is how he remembers it. Having listened to the calls 
from October 2019, and looking at the case notes provided, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr H asked Quickly Finance to stop representing him in October 2019, around the same 
time Quickly Finance started chasing for their success fees. 
I havent seen evidence to support Mr Hs comments that hed cancelled the contract with 
Quickly Finance before this time. So I dont think it would be fair to say that there wasnt an 
agreement between Mr H and Quickly Finance at the time lender LS agreed to offer 
additional compensation to Mr H.
Mr H says he did all the hard work, and dealt with lender LS directly. I accept that its likely 
that Mr Hs communications with lender LS led to lender LS decision to pay further 
compensation of £543.16. But Quickly Finance had been authorised to deal with the claim 
on Mr Hs behalf. Although its likely that Mr H told lender LS that Quickly Finance were no 
longer representing him, I cant say that the agreement with Quickly Finance had been 
cancelled, and was no longer effective. 
In response to the investigators findings, Mr H commented on the over-reliance of terms and 
conditions when deciding his complaint. Mr H said he wouldnt be willing to accept a decision saying that the Quickly Finances success fee is due because he did all the work himself 
which led to the second payment. 
I can appreciate it mustve been upsetting for Mr H to receive an invoice, and be asked to 
pay a success fee, when he feels strongly that he did all the work that led to lender LS 
making a payment to him for £543.16. Although I can appreciate Mr H frustrations, I dont 
think it would be fair to say that the agreement with Quickly Finance doesnt apply. 
The evidence shows that Mr H instructed Quickly Finance to make payday loan claims 
against lender LS. Although lender LS contacted Mr H to discuss the claim, this happened 
only because Quickly Finance completed work on the claim, which led to Lender LS 
becoming aware of Mr Hs concerns. Theres no doubt Mr H dealt with Lender LS directly. 
But his agreement with Quickly Finance was still valid at the time. Because of this, I think its 
fair that Quickly Finance charge their success fee of 30% plus VAT for compensation 
accepted by Mr H for the amount of £543.16.
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman