DRN-2056621
The complaint
Mr M complains that a training course, that he was paying for under a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Caledonian Consumer Finance Limited, was mis-sold to him.
What happened
Mr M registered for a training course with a course provider in January 2019. He also 
entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Caledonian Consumer Finance to pay for the 
course. He stopped making payments to Caledonian Consumer Finance and complained to 
it that the course wasnt fit for purpose and was misrepresented to him.
It said that it had found no evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
course provider so it didnt uphold his complaint. Mr M wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She wasnt persuaded that the course was mis-
sold and that if Mr M had wanted an electrical course with minimal plumbing he would have 
raised it much sooner than he did. Shed found no evidence of a breach of contract, or 
misrepresentation and she said that the course provider had offered to change him onto an 
electrical course.
Mr M has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that the course was mis-sold, the wrong course was provided, the delivery mechanism was 
inappropriate for him, the course support was insufficiently administered and the online 
aspect wasnt suitable for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr M used credit in the form of a fixed sum loan agreement to pay for the course;
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Ms complaint about Caledonian Consumer Finance, I must 
be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the course 
provider and that Caledonian Consumer Finances response to his claim under 
section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ms 
claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;
Mr M says that he wanted to take an electrical course with some plumbing and he 
registered with the course provider;
he signed a registration form in January 2019 for a plumbing course which was 
described as Complete Prof. Weekend and he confirmed that hed received a 
complete course kit, had read and understood his cancellation rights, and understood 
that it was a self-study program;
he also signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Caledonian Consumer Finance 
which incorrectly described the course as an Electrical course but correctly set out 
the price of the course which was £7,800, that Mr M had made an advance payment 
of £60 and agreed to make 43 monthly loan repayments of £180  the loan was 
interest free;
Mr M started the course and the course provider says he was enrolled on the course 
for six months before he complained about it and in that time had accessed the 
course providers online portal 16 times, had successfully completed the first 
homework assignment and had been in phone contact with its tutors;
if Mr M had been registered for the wrong course I consider that it would be 
reasonable to expect that he would have realised that soon after he started the 
course and that he wouldve contacted the course provider about it  but Ive seen no 
evidence to show that he did so or that he tried to withdraw from the course during 
the cancellation period;
Mr M clearly wasnt satisfied with the course but Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence to show that it was incorrectly described to him, wasnt fit for 
purpose or was mis-sold to him;
I sympathise with Mr M for the issues that he had with the course and I appreciate 
the difficulties that he will have faced as English isnt his first language  but Im not 
persuaded that hes provided enough evidence to show that theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the course provider;
the course provider has said that Mr M could swap to an electrical course, which cost 
the same as the plumbing course, if he wanted to do so and keep the loan 
agreement in place  but he hasnt done so;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the course provider or 
Caledonian Consumer Finance have acted incorrectly in their dealings with Mr M 
about the course and I consider that Caledonian Consumer Finances response to 
his complaint has been fair and reasonable in the circumstances; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Caledonian Consumer 
Finance to end the fixed sum loan agreement, to refund to Mr M any of the loan 
repayments that hed made, to pay him any compensation or to take any other action 
in response to his complaint.
I suggest that Mr M contacts Caledonian Consumer Finance to try to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement for the amount that he owes to it. If he doesnt do so, I consider it to 
be likely than Caledonian Consumer Finance will take further against him, to the extent that 
its legally entitled to do so. If Mr M is experiencing financial difficulties, he should explain 
those difficulties to Caledonian Consumer Finance. Its required to respond to them 
positively and sympathetically.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman