DRN-1855713
 
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy with what happened after she contacted the legal helpline provided by 
Amtrust as part of her legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Miss F called the legal helpline on 25 July last year. She explained she wanted advice on 
how to challenge a liability order that had been issued against her for non payment of 
Council Tax. She explained in detail why she didn't believe the correct decision had been 
reached. She also said she was seeking advice on how to pursue a claim against the 
relevant court and local authority for failing to make reasonable adjustments for her needs.
The helpline advisor provided some guidance on this and also suggested Miss F make a 
claim on her legal expenses insurance policy. Miss F said she wasn't sure she'd be covered. 
The advisor said while he was also unsure he thought it worth going through the process.  
Miss F outlined the difficulties she would have in completing a claim form so the advisor 
agreed to call her back the next day to complete the claim form and answer some 
outstanding questions.
During that call the advisor provided further information on the process for challenging the 
liability order and the time frames for this. Miss F queried what the point of making a legal 
expenses claim would be if she wasn't covered. The advisor said there was nothing 
excluding this type of action from being brought under her policy. However, the prospects of 
success would need to be assessed. Miss F said she was happy with that and agreed to 
make a legal expenses claim. 
Amtrust confirmed receipt of the claim that day. Having considered this it advised Miss F on 
1 August the policy didn't cover Council Tax disputes and disability discrimination claims 
were only covered where this related to an employment dispute. 
Miss F accepted that but said the advice given on the helpline led her to make a claim and 
this had been a wasted effort which took up some of the limited time she had to challenge 
the liability order. She also said she'd been given incorrect advice about how to challenge 
the liability order and the helpline hadn't provided the service set out in the terms and 
conditions of her policy. And she said Amtrust took too long to decline her claim. 
Our investigator thought Amtrust had provided the helpline service offered by the policy. And 
she didn't think there had been any avoidable delay in it considering her claim. But she 
thought the advisor should been clearer when discussing if the claim Miss F wanted to make 
would be covered by her policy. Taking into account the impact on Miss F of this, and 
considering her particular medical and mental health difficulties, she thought Amtrust should 
pay her £100. 
Amtrust didn't agree. It said the legal helpline only provided general legal advice and didn't 
have access to a consumer's insurance cover. And a decision on whether cover could be provided would only be made after a claim had been made. So it thought Miss F had been 
correctly advised to do that. 
Miss F didn't agree either. She said if she'd followed the advice provided by the helpline this 
could have cost her a lot of money. And she drew attention to the distress she'd been 
caused by what the advisor got wrong. She thought the compensation figure should be 
significantly higher. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Miss F's legal expenses policy say that it provides access to a 
24 hour advisory service for telephone advice on any private legal problem. 
I've listened to the two calls Miss F had with the helpline and I think she was provided with 
the service set out in the policy terms. Miss F was, in summary, seeking advice on how to 
challenge the liability order that had been issued and whether she could pursue a 
discrimination claim. And she was provided with advice about that. I appreciate that during 
the first call the advisor appeared unclear of the exact process in relation to this and did 
make reference to judicial review (JR). However, the position was clarified in the follow up 
call and she wasn't advised to take JR proceedings. Miss F may have thought the advice 
she received would be more detailed or specialist but her policy doesn't say that's what will 
be provided.  
But I agree the advisor should have been clearer when discussing whether Miss F should 
make a claim on her legal expenses policy. I note Amtrust says advisors don't have access 
to details of the cover. However, in this case the advisor must have done because during the 
call he says "I'm looking at the policy now". And it was following that he said the claim Miss F 
wanted to make wasn't excluded by the policy. That was technically correct - the claim isn't 
caught by an exclusion, it simply isn't something the policy covers at all. But I think he should 
have been clearer about that and I can understand why on that basis Miss F thought her 
claim might be covered (subject to it having prospects of success).
I don't think there was any avoidable delay by Amstrust in then considering the claim. And 
it's not in dispute that it wasn't in fact covered. But I accept that what the advisor said will 
have given Miss F a raised expectation that this might have been the case. I also 
note Amtrust accepted the advisor should have managed her expectations better in its final 
response to her complaint. 
So I've thought about the impact on Miss F of that. I appreciate the matter was cleared up 
once she got a response from Amtrust. And on the basis of what the advisor did say Miss F 
knew there was no guarantee that cover would be provided (because this was subject to it 
having prospects of success). I don't think waiting for a decision on cover prevented her from 
challenging the liability order in time (and I understand she was able to do so). But I am 
aware of the very difficult medical issues which Miss F is dealing with and her mental health 
problems. I think it's reasonable to say the distress caused to her by having a claim turned 
down after being given information which suggested otherwise would have been greater 
than for someone without those difficulties. And I think it's fair of Amtrust to pay £100 to 
recognise the impact of that on her. 
My final decisionI've decided to uphold this complaint in part. To put things right Amtrust will need to pay Miss 
F £100.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
James Park
Ombudsman