DRN-2608743
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the charges Swinton Group Ltd applied when she cancelled her 
motor insurance policy outside the 14 day cooling off period. 
What happened
Mrs A took out a policy through Swinton and it contacted her to say that what she had 
disclosed didnt match her claims history on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) 
database. Mrs A clarified with her previous insurer that it had recorded a notification only 
claim on her record and Mrs A wasnt aware of this. This information was passed to Swinton. 
Mrs A was told numerous times that her policy would be cancelled as Swinton didnt have 
enough information about the claim. But when Mrs A contacted Swinton, she was told her 
policy would continue. Swinton then told Mrs A, 18 days after the policy had started, that 
there would be a premium increase due to the notification only, non-fault claim. Mrs A 
decided to cancel her policy as she thought this was unfair. Swinton then charged her for her 
time on cover, and it applied its service charge and cancellation charge. Mrs A was unhappy 
with this. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Swinton 
should have warned Mrs A that there may be a premium increase due to the notification only 
or non-fault claim. He thought it should have told Mrs A about the increase within the cooling 
off period. So he thought it was unfair for it to apply its charges and that it should refund 
these. He also thought Mrs A had been put to trouble and upset because shed had to 
repeatedly contact Swinton when it told her the policy would be cancelled. He thought 
Swinton should pay Mrs A £100 compensation for this level of service. 
Swinton replied that it wasnt responsible for Mrs As initial error in not disclosing the claim. It 
said it had applied the charges Mrs A had agreed to when she took out the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been a stressful and frustrating experience for Mrs A. Shes 
told us that she chose Swinton as she thought it would be reliable and efficient. Our 
approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with its terms of 
business and fairly and reasonably.
Ive looked at Swintons terms of business. They say that if a policy is cancelled within the 
cooling off period, the consumer will be charged by the insurer for time on cover and Swinton 
will apply a £25 cancellation charge. But if the policy is cancelled outside the cooling off 
period, Swinton will apply a £50 cancellation charge and not refund its £40 service charge. 
I think these charges are clearly set out and in keeping with others Ive seen. So Ive looked 
to see whether it was fair and reasonable for Swinton to apply them in Mrs As particular 
circumstances. 
I think Mrs A inadvertently made the initial error in not disclosing the notification only non-
fault claim. Two years earlier, shed reported a scratch to her cars lease company and later 
asked for this to be cancelled as the scratch was removed by polishing. No outlay was 
made. 
But the insurer had recorded the report on CUE as for notification purposes only and I think 
Mrs A was then obliged to disclose this to future insurers. I cant see that Mrs As previous 
insurer told her how the claim had been recorded. But I cant say that this was Swintons 
responsibility.
When Swinton raised this with Mrs A she obtained a copy of the claim form and an email 
from the previous insurer saying that the claim had been recorded as for notification only and 
closed. This was four days after the policy started.
There followed two weeks of emails, letters and calls between Swinton and Mrs A. Mrs A 
received repeated threats of cancellation and then reassurance that all was well. Swinton 
told her it didnt have enough information about the claim, but Mrs A had sent it all that was 
available. Mrs A re-sent this information once more and was finally asked to upload it to her 
account. Swinton then told her it had all it needed, and that the insurer would require an 
additional premium due to the claim. Mrs A found alternative cover and cancelled her policy. 
I think Mrs A wanted her policy to continue until she was told about the additional premium. I 
think Mrs A did all that was required of her by Swinton in good time. And I think Swinton 
provided a poor level of service for her:
Swinton had the required documents four days after the policy started but still asked for 
further copies of the same documents on two later occasions.
Swinton didnt warn Mrs A that the claim would likely lead to an increase in premium. I 
think it should have warned Mrs A about this during the cooling off period. 
Swinton sent Mrs A numerous notifications of cancellation after she had supplied the 
needed documents, which I think caused Mrs A avoidable stress and upset. 
Mrs A had to contact Swinton numerous times to establish that her policy wouldnt 
cancel. 
And so I think it was unfair for Swinton to apply the charges that would have been avoided if 
Mrs A had cancelled within the cooling off period. Because of its level of service, I also think 
that its unfair for Swinton to charge Mrs A for cancellation if shed been able to do this within 
the cooling off period. 
And I think Swinton has caused Mrs A avoidable stress and upset and it should compensate 
her for this. The investigator recommended that Swinton should pay Mrs A £100 
compensation for its level of service. I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require 
in similar circumstances.
Putting things right
I require Swinton Group Ltd to refund that £50 cancellation charge and £40 service charge 
and pay Mrs A £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Swinton Group Ltd to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman