DRN-3145468
The complaint
Mr R complains Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc (Toyota) provided him with a car that he 
believes wasnt of satisfactory quality.
  
What happened
 In May 2019, Mr R entered into a 60 month hire purchase agreement with Toyota for a used 
car. The cash price of the car was £22,995, it had travelled around 44,800 miles and it was 
first registered in July 2013.
In June 2019, the car suffered an engine failure. The dealership arranged for a repair to be 
carried out under warranty in which the engine was replaced at a cost of over £16,000. 
Following the repair, Mr R said when the car was returned to him in September 2019, it was 
brought to his attention that there were issues with the cars bodywork. Mr R reported to the 
dealership that there was a crack on the front panel and it was also misaligned with the 
bumper panel. Mr R said he was told its likely a previous repair had been carried out but not 
to a satisfactory standard. Mr R provided photographs of the affected areas to the 
dealership. The car was inspected but no repairs were carried out.
In March 2020, Mr R reported a fault with the pedestrian protection warning alarm from the 
electrical control unit and he reported it the dealership. He also complained about the 
increasing size of the crack on the front panel, the mis-alignment of the panels was getting 
worse and he believed this had caused the issue with the alarm. It was looked at by a 
manufacturer approved garage but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it closed and nothing was 
done about it.
Mr R complained to Toyota in April 2020. They said a scuff on the front bumper was present 
from the outset and Mr R agreed to a price reduction to reflect that, he was given a free two 
year warranty by the dealership and the engine had been replaced at no cost to him. In 
relation to the crack on the front panel and the faulty alarm, they said there was insufficient 
evidence these were present at supply. Overall, they said it was a used car and issues may 
happen which is why warranty is offered. 
Concerned the damage would get worse, the car wouldnt pass its MOT and the fact he 
needed to use it as a keyworker during the Covid-19 pandemic, in October 2020, Mr R 
arranged for the necessary repairs to be carried out. He paid around £467 (excluding VAT) 
for the alarm to be repaired and £783 for the bodywork repairs. He believes Toyota should 
reimburse him for these costs.
Mr R said due to the above issues, he lost faith in the car and sold it. The agreement was 
settled in full in November 2020.
Unhappy with Toyotas response, Mr R referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator recommended the case was partially upheld. They believed Mr R was aware of 
the crack in the bodywork when he acquired the car but its likely to have become a cause of 
concern after the size increased. They said there was insufficient evidence to say the issues 
with the bodywork was linked to the faulty alarm and its likely to be down to wear and tear. 
They didnt agree Toyota should reimburse Mr R for the cost of the repairs. However they 
said Toyota should refund the monthly payments, less the days a courtesy car was provided 
during the time the repair for the engine was carried out.
Toyota said they had refunded £729 when the agreement was settled due to overpayments. 
They said Mr R declined the use of a courtesy car when it was offered as he was working 
away from home but when he did need one, it was provided. They confirmed a courtesy car 
was provided for approximately 12 days. They accepted inconvenience had been caused 
and agreed to refund two months payments as a resolution. 
Mr R disagreed. In summary, he said the crack on the front panel was not brought to his 
attention when he acquired the car only the scuff mark on the bumper. He said the issues 
with the bodywork were a result of a previous poor repair which over time got worse. He also 
maintained this caused the fault with the pedestrian protection alarm and he had provided  
evidence from a garage which confirmed the same. Given the number of faults, he didnt 
believe the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. 
In October 2021, I issued my provision decision saying I intended to uphold the complaint. I 
said: 
Mr R acquired a car under a regulated hire purchase agreement. Toyota was the supplier of
the goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about
the supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage at the time of supply and the cars history.
In this case, Mr R was supplied with a used car that was approximately six years old and 
had travelled over 44,800 miles. For used cars, its reasonable to expect parts may already 
have suffered wear and tear when compared to a new car or one that is less travelled.
The engine
Mr R said the car suffered a complete engine failure in June 2019 so I think its fair to say 
there was a fault with the car. I dont believe a reasonable person would expect a car that 
had been in ones possession for approximately a month to have suffered such a significant 
fault to the extent the engine needed to be replaced. On this basis, I believe its most likely 
the fault with the engine was developing and/or present at the time of supply. Therefore Im 
not satisfied the car was of satisfactory quality meaning there was a breach of contract. 
Where this happens and its outside the initial 30 days of supply, the CRA provides one 
opportunity for repair which is what happened here. The dealership arranged for the car to 
be fitted with a new engine which was covered by warranty. 
Based on what Ive been told, due to this repair Mr R wasnt able to use the car from June 
2019 until it was returned in September 2019. During this time, he continued to pay the 
contractual payments without having use of it. The dealership said he was offered a courtesy 
car to keep him mobile but Mr R told them this wasnt always needed as he worked away. As 
I wasnt present, I cant say what was discussed during these conversations. Nevertheless, according to the dealerships records, Mr R was provided with a courtesy car between 20 
and 30 June 2019 and 30 August to 1 September 2019. As Mr R was unable to have use of 
the car from June 2019 to August 2019, I believe its fair Toyota refund the contractual 
payments for these months less the days he was provided with a courtesy car.
The bodywork 
Mr R said following the return of the car in September 2019 after the engine was replaced, 
it was brought to his attention that there were issues with the bodywork as set out above. Mr 
R accepts there was a scuff on the bumper at supply, in which he received a reduction in 
price, however he said he wasnt made aware of these additional issues with the bodywork. 
Ive considered the visual safety inspection report, which was carried out before the car was 
supplied to Mr R and no issue with the bodywork is noted. Ive also looked at the 
photographs of the affected bodywork areas as taken by Mr R in September 2019 as 
provided to the dealership. They clearly show a crack in the panel and a gap between the 
two panels meaning they arent sitting flush as they should. On balance, Im not persuaded 
the crack was brought to Mr Rs attention when he acquired it, if it had, I believe this 
wouldve also been considered as part of the price reduction but there is no evidence this 
happened. In my opinion, a scuff mark on a bumper is somewhat cosmetic but I dont think 
the same could be said for a crack and had this been brought to his attention, I believe this is 
likely to have raised a concern for Mr R. 
From my understanding, the car was looked at by a manufacturer approved garage but no 
repairs were carried out and no vehicle health check report was produced so I dont know 
their exact findings. Mr R said as time went on, the bodywork faults got worse and increased 
in size and despite his attempts to get it repaired by the dealership nothing further was done.
When cars are supplied under a regulated agreement as it is here, there is the expectation 
that its components would function without any significant issue or problem for a reasonable 
period of time but I cant say thats the case here. Given Mr R had only been in possession 
of the car for approximately a month before it went in for repair in June 2019 and the issues 
with the bodywork was reported as soon as it was returned to him in September 2019, Im 
persuaded it was most likely these faults were present and or developing at the point of 
supply. As it would appear these bodywork faults appeared prematurely, this is likely to 
indicate there was already a problem when the car was supplied therefore I cant say the car 
was of satisfactory quality.
Ive already set out why as a result of the fault with the engine, I dont believe the car was of 
satisfactory quality when Mr R acquired it. So when he reported these further faults with the 
bodywork, I wouldve expected the dealership and/or Toyota to have either allowed a 
rejection or arranged a repair if agreed by Mr R but neither happened. A repair quote of 
£1,919 was provided in July 2020 but no further action was taken. Due to the amount of time 
that had passed without resolution, I can understand why Mr R felt he had no alternative but 
to arrange for the repairs himself to avoid the matter getting worse. Therefore, I think its fair 
that Toyota reimburse him the cost of the repairs to the bodywork which totalled £783.18.
The alarm
Based on evidence provided, there was a fault with the pedestrian protection alarm. It was 
looked at by a manufacturer approved garage but I havent been provided with evidence of 
their findings. Mr R arranged for another manufacturer approved garage to inspect the car and the engineer said although they cant say with 100% certainty, its likely the issue with 
the misaligned panels is a cause of the fault with the alarm. However they said the wiring 
loom would need to be inspected to confirm the exact cause.
Ive seen a copy of the invoice for when the repair to the fault alarm was carried out however 
I havent been provided with sufficient evidence that the fault with the alarm was linked or a 
cause of the faults with the bodywork as set out above. There is no findings about the wiring 
loom. I also need to bear in mind that this particular issue was reported in March 2020 which 
was several months after the car was returned to Mr R in September 2019 so I cant rule out 
it was down to reasonable wear and tear which is to be expected from a used car. On 
balance, I dont believe I have sufficient evidence to reasonably conclude the fault with the 
alarm was present and/or developing at the point of supply so I dont think its fair for Toyota 
to refund the cost of this repair.  
Im sorry to hear the car didnt perform as expected and Mr R experienced faults with the 
engine and the bodywork which I dont think a reasonable person would expect so soon after 
acquiring it. He had to return the car to the dealership on more than one occasion, arrange 
for repairs to be carried out, he lost faith in the car and was reluctant to use it which caused 
inconvenience at a time when he needed it as a keyworker during the Covid-19 pandemic. In 
light of this, I believe Toyota should pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Response to the provisional decision 
I invited both parties to provide further submissions before I reached my final decision. Mr R 
accepted my findings. However he said he would try to get evidence from the garage who 
carried out the repairs to the pedestrian protection alarm to show the fault was linked to the 
bodywork issues.
Toyota didnt accept my findings. They said they would refund two months instalments as Mr 
R wasnt kept mobile for two months. Given the bodywork repair had been carried out more 
than a year after purchase, they said they didnt believe it was fair to refund this amount. 
They commented Mr R could have made the situation worse as he was driving the car. 
Lastly they said given the cars age and mileage, the bodywork issues wouldve been 
reflected in the purchase price. To resolve the complaint, they agreed to pay £100 
compensation to Mr R. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I thank both parties for their further submissions. Mr R hasnt provided any further evidence 
from the repair garage so theres insufficient evidence for me to reasonably conclude the 
fault with the alarm was linked to the faults with the bodywork. So I still believe this fault was 
a result of wear and tear so I wont be asking Toyota to reimburse Mr R for this repair cost.
Ive considered Toyotas comments about when the bodywork repair was carried out. While I 
accept it was a year after it was supplied, Ive considered whether the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. The bodywork issues were reported immediately after it was 
returned following the engine repair. I cant ignore the fact Mr R had only been in possession 
of the car for approximately four weeks before it went into repair. So on that basis, I believe 
the faults with the bodywork were most likely present and or developing at the point of 
supply. In terms of the time taken for the repair to be carried, I find this was outside of Mr Rs 
control. He reported it to the dealership in September 2019 and again in March 2020 and it 
was looked at but nothing was done despite his requests. So I can understand why he felt he had no alternative but to arrange for these repairs to be carried out to prevent it from getting 
worse. 
Toyota has provided insufficient evidence to demonstrate the faults with the bodywork, were 
taken into account when supplied and the price was reduced because of this. On balance, I 
think the price was reduced due to a scuff mark on the bumper only. 
Ive already set out my reasons as to why I believe three months contractual months should 
be refunded less the days the courtesy car was provided. I remain of the opinion this is a fair 
remedy as it reflects the time Mr R was left without a car.  
I still consider my provisional findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Neither 
party has added anything which gives me cause to change my decision. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
To put things right, Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc must:
- Refund three months contractual payments, that is, June to August 2019, less the 
days Mr R was provided with a courtesy car*;
- Refund £783.18 for the cost of the repair for the bodywork*;
- Pay £200 compensation to Mr R for the trouble and upset caused.
* Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc should also pay 8% simple interest per year on all the 
above refunds calculated from the date of payment up to the date of settlement.
If Toyota Financial Services (UK) considers tax should be deducted from the interest part of 
my award it should provide Mr R with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so he 
can reclaim that amount if he is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman