DRN-4306915
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Santander UK Plc dealt with his application for a buy to let 
mortgage. He asks that it refunds costs, lends the full loan amount, and pays compensation.
What happened
Mr A applied to Santander for a buy to let mortgage, via a broker, in early 2022.
Mr A says Santander didnt comply with the terms of the mortgage, as it didnt provide a 
£750 buffer or lend the amount he wanted, which was within the maximum loan to value for 
the product he chose. He says he wasnt told about the solicitors charges and Santander 
caused delays returning surplus funds.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying Santander acted reasonably.
Mr A didnt agree, saying:
hed wanted to borrow £270,000, which is 75% of the property valuation. He wanted to 
re-mortgage to extend the lease and renovate the property. Santander only offered 
£257,000, which he says isnt enough to complete this work. Mr A said he was given no 
explanation for this, and was reluctant to ask as hed already been asked a lot of 
questions he hadnt expected.
he asked the conveyancer to request the £750 buffer, and Santander failed to provide 
this with the completion funds. He provided a letter from the conveyancer which supports 
this.
After we sent the letter from the conveyancer to Santander it offered to increase Mr As loan 
with the £750 buffer.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties explaining why I considered Santanders offer to 
be fair and reasonable, and why I didnt intend to uphold the other parts of Mr As complaint. 
This was substantially as set out below. 
Santander agreed. Mr A didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As broker submitted an application to Santander on his behalf in January 2022. Mr A 
provided a copy of a valuation report, which values the property at £360,000. Although I 
cant see a date, Mr A says the valuation was carried out on 7 March 2022. The fixed 
interest rate product Mr A applied for was available for loans up to a maximum of 75% of the 
propertys valuation. So Mr A could have taken out this product if hed borrowed £270,000.
The loan amount
The mortgage application submitted by Mr As broker in January 2022 said Mr A wanted to 
borrow £232,500. It said this was to repay the existing mortgage and borrow an additional 
£95,000.
Santander received a request in mid-March 2022 from the broker to increase the loan to 
£260,000. Santander issued a new mortgage offer with a loan amount of £257,000.
We asked Santander why it didnt increase the loan amount to £260,000 as the broker 
requested. Santander said it had by this time withdrawn the interest rate product that Mr A 
had applied for. As a concession it would allow Mr A to retain the product if the loan amount 
increased within a percentage limit. Over this limit, Mr A had to choose a new product.
Santander says after it asked the broker to choose a new product, the broker responded with 
a request to increase the borrowing within the limit.
I think the explanation provided by Santander is reasonable and supported by the evidence it 
provided. If Mr A would have preferred to apply to increase the loan to £260,000 (or 
£270,000) and choose a new product, Santander couldnt have known this. It acted on the 
information it received from the broker. The mortgage offer  which Mr A accepted  set out 
the loan amount. If Mr A wasnt happy with this, he could have raised this via his broker at 
the time.
Further questions during the application process
I can see in Santanders notes that it raised queries with Mr As broker. Mr A said he hadnt 
been asked these questions before. Santander receives information from a number of 
sources. I think it was reasonable for Santander to check information with the broker. 
Ultimately, it was satisfied with the information provided and offered to lend to Mr A.
Conveyancers fees and return of surplus funds
The mortgage offer said Santander would pay the costs of its conveyancers standard legal 
fees for the mortgage. It said any additional work would be at Mr As cost. Santander said it 
was for the solicitor to inform Mr A about any additional legal costs, and it passed this part of 
Mr As complaint to the solicitor. It said the £24 fee Mr A had complained about had been 
refunded by the solicitor and provided a letter from the solicitor to Mr A supporting this.
If there was a delay in surplus funds being returned to Mr A after completion, based on the 
available evidence I dont think this was due to an error by Santander.
The £750 buffer
The mortgage offer says: you may borrow additional money up to £750 to be able to 
complete your mortgage. Your conveyancer will tell you that additional money is required 
and request your written agreement to this.
Mr A says he asked for the £750. He provided a letter from the conveyancer saying they 
requested the buffer but this wasnt provided by Santander with the completion funds. The 
conveyancer said they failed to discuss this with Mr A at the time and offered £25 
compensation.
We told Santander what the conveyancer had said and asked it to explain what happened.
Santander said it took responsibility for any error between it and the solicitor. It said it would 
arrange to increase the loan by £750 if Mr A wants this. It says it can do this without additional paperwork if Mr A accepts this final decision, by sending £750 to the account he 
uses to pay the mortgage. 
Santander asked that Mr A pays attention to the provision in the mortgage offer under 
Additional borrowing available without further approval  this will increase the amount of 
borrowing secured on your home. This provision explains the consequences of taking out 
the additional borrowing  including that his monthly payment and any early repayment 
charge will increase, as will the amount he has to pay back. 
Mr A should read the provision carefully before deciding whether to accept this decision and 
take out the additional borrowing. 
For the reasons set out above, I dont intend to uphold the other aspects of Mr As complaint. 
And I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander to pay compensation for the 
delay in Mr A receiving the £750 buffer. I dont think Santander was responsible for Mr A 
applying to borrow less than he says he needs to complete work on the property. I dont 
think receiving £750 sooner would have changed this. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to increase Mr As loan 
by £750 as described above, if he accepts this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman