DRN-2929364
The complaint
Ms F complains that a car acquired with finance from Black Horse Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In August 2020 Ms F was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Black Horse.
When Ms F viewed the car, the mats were missing. She says the salesperson told her he 
would order mats for her. When Ms F collected the car, the mats hadnt arrived. Ms F says 
she has chased the dealership several times, but the salesperson has now left, and she still 
doesnt have the mats.
Ms F complained to Black Horse and asked to reject the car. In response, Black Horse said 
it wasnt able to say whether the car should have been sold with mats because the sales 
invoice didnt mention these. But it said the supplying dealer was happy to supply the mats 
free of charge to Ms F as a gesture of goodwill. 
Ms F wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. She said that so much 
time had elapsed since the point of supply that the mats havent been supplied in a 
reasonable time and she wants to reject the car. 
Our investigator said that whist he didnt think the omission of the mats had impacted greatly 
on Ms Fs use of the car, he thought Black Horse couldve done more to offer a resolution to 
the complaint. He said that the offer by the dealer to supply the mats was enough to put Ms 
F in the position she should have been in, but said that because of the length of time it had 
taken Black Horse should pay compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Ms F didnt agree. She said she wasnt interested in the mats or the compensation and she 
felt that a statement shouldve been taken from the salesperson who sold her the car ad 
promised her the mats. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Black Horse supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that the car is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age and mileage of the 
car and the price paid.
In this case, Ms F says that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality because it didnt have mats. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months Id expect 
the business to put things right. Thats not to say that I consider the absence of mats to be a 
fault. It hasnt impacted on Ms Fs ability to drive the car. 
In the alternative Ive thought about whether the salesperson made a misrepresentation. In 
order to find that theres been a misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied that he made 
an untrue statement of fact which induced Ms F to enter into the agreement. 
Ms F says the salesperson told her he would get mats for the car. She relies on a discussion 
and subsequent text messages. The supplying dealer acknowledges that mats werent 
supplied with the car, but says it cant be certain of what the salesperson said because hes 
no longer working there.
Ive reviewed the available evidence including the sales invoice. Theres no specific 
reference to mats. I accept Ms Fs point that its unlikely that mats would be listed separately. 
That said, if the salesperson had agreed to supply mats separately, then I would have 
expected to see some reference to this on the sales documents.
Even if I was to accept that the salesperson told Ms F that he would obtain mats, Im not 
persuaded that the presence of mats or otherwise was a main factor in Ms Fs decision to 
enter into the agreement. For this reasons Im unable to say that theres been a 
misrepresentation.
I understand Ms Fs frustration. Shes had the car for over a year ad still doesnt have any 
mats. The dealer has said that it ordered the mats and advised Ms F that these were 
available for collection in March 2021. Ms F hasnt collected the mats because she no longer 
wants them  she feels that the matter has gone on too long and wants to reject the car.
Based on what Ive seen, I cant say there are any grounds to reject the car. The dealer has 
tried to put things right by offering to supply the mats free of charge, which is what I would 
expect it to do.
Putting things right
Given that it was over 6 months before the dealer offered to supply the mats, and taking 
account of the time and effort that Ms F has put into chasing the dealer for the mats and 
ultimately complaining to Black Horse, I think its fair to recognise that Ms F has been 
caused unnecessary trouble and upset here. Had the mats been obtained and offered to Ms 
F within a reasonable time, I dont think she would be needed to complain, as theres no 
evidence that theres anything wrong with the car.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Black Horse Limited must:
Arrange for the mats to be delivered to Ms F at no cost to her
Pay compensation of £100 for trouble and upset  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman