DRN-2977986
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Covea Insurance plc declined their claim on their home 
insurance for damage to their septic tank.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N had home insurance with Covea. In November 2020 they were having the 
tank emptied when the contractors noticed a hole on the inside of it. In December 2020 they 
made a claim under the accidental damage section of their policy. They said they had 
appointed an expert who thought the hose used to empty the tank had knocked against the 
side and this had caused the damage.
Covea appointed specialists to attend and inspect the damage. They produced a report but 
werent able to decide the cause. Covea gave both reports to an appointed engineer to 
determine the most likely cause. The engineer concluded that considering the size of the 
tank and location of the damage, its unlikely the hose would have been able to hit the side 
of the tank with enough of an impact to cause the damage. Instead, they thought the 
damage was most likely not caused by a one-off event. Covea subsequently declined the 
claim as it said there wasnt enough evidence that there had been an insured event.
Mr and Mrs N werent happy with this. They said their appointed contractor had confirmed 
the damage was most likely caused by the hose so should be covered under accidental 
damage. They made a complaint, but Covea didnt change its position. So they brought their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said she thought Covea had acted fairly by declining the claim as the evidence it relied 
on suggested the damage was most likely not caused by a one off event. 
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree. They provided evidence to show that they have regular services 
carried out on the tank, and no problems had been picked up in those services. Our 
investigator considered this but it didnt change her view. She said the reports from the 
services didnt comment on the area where the damage had been caused, and she didnt 
think this showed Covea had acted unfairly by declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made, its first for the insured to prove there has been an 
insured event. This is something thats covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to 
either accept the claim or prove that an exclusion or policy condition applies.
In this case Covea has said that Mr and Mrs N have failed to prove there has been an 
insured event. And therefore hasnt accepted their claim. I need to decide if it has acted fairly 
and reasonably when reaching its decision.
The disagreement in this complaint stems from the cause of the damage to the septic tank. 
Its important to note that it isnt for me to decide what the cause of the damage was. But 
instead to look at all the evidence, provided by both sides, to determine if Covea has made a 
fair and reasonable decision. 
Mr and Mrs N believe it was caused by the hose knocking against, or falling on, the side of 
the tank. And therefore should be covered under accidental damage.
In the policy accidental damage is described as: Unexpected and unintended damage 
caused by sudden means., so if this was the cause it would be reasonably covered under 
this section. 
Ive looked at the initial reports provided by both Mr and Mrs N and Covea. Coveas report 
stated as follows:
The splitting/deformation of the sewage treatment plant will have occurred due to an 
external force being applied to the tank. In this instance, we conclude that the damage was 
caused by ground movement or hydrostatic pressure. Modern tanks should be installed with 
a concrete surround in order to prevent damage due to external force in the ground. We 
cannot comment on the suitability of the installation of the tank as we do not know the 
ground conditions at the time the tank was installed, however it has functioned as intended 
for the last 8 years. The damage has occurred suddenly and unexpectedly in this instance.
While the report suggests the damage was caused by ground movement or pressure from 
water in the ground, it isnt conclusive, as it suggests numerous possibilities. 
Mr and Mrs Ns report states as follows:
You have a [Brand Name] sewage treatment plant that looks to have suffered some form of 
accidental damage possibly caused by the tanker hose when this was being emptied.
Again, while this report poses the suggestion that the damage may have been caused by the 
hose, it isnt conclusive, rather just states this is a possibility.
Due to the fact neither report provided a conclusive cause of the damage, Covea instructed 
an engineer to consider the facts. As the most likely cause needs to be identified in order for 
Covea to validate the claim, I think this was a reasonable step in the circumstances. 
Coveas engineer considered the reports and photographs provided in order to determine 
how the damage may have been caused. He concluded that the impact of the hose against 
the tank would be unlikely to cause the level of damage. He further considered other ways 
that damage may have been caused that would fit the definition of accidental damage in the 
policy. But said that as the tank was enclosed in concrete and in a sheltered part of the 
garden, its unlikely to have been a sudden impact from outside of the tank either. 
Based on this, I think Covea has acted fairly and reasonably when deciding not to accept the 
claim. While I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ns expert said the most likely cause was the hose, 
both Coveas report and the opinion of its engineer dont agree. So I think its reasonable that 
Covea have concluded that there isnt enough evidence to show that the cause of the 
damage is the hose. Or that the claim would meet the definition of accidental damage.Mr and Mrs N have provided evidence to show that they maintain the septic tank well and 
get it serviced regularly. Ive considered this, but as Covea has declined the claim as it says 
there isnt enough evidence to show accidental damage has occurred, Im not persuaded 
that the regular services disprove this. While I can see they took good care of the tank, this 
doesnt mean that the cause of the damage was a sudden event. There are still many other 
possible explanations for the damage. So this isnt enough to persuade me that Covea has 
made an unfair decision.
For these reasons Im satisfied that Covea has acted fairly and reasonably when making the 
decision not to accept Mr and Mrs Ns claim. So I wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman