DRN-3259133
The complaint
Mrs C complains about her insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Limited (RSA) declining a claim 
under her home insurance policy for water damage to her property.
What happened
In March 2021 Mrs C noticed a large damp patch in the wall of the living room at the back of 
their property. Mrs Cs husband looked at the outside wall to the living room to see whether 
there was an obvious cause, but only noticed a clump of grass at the top of the guttering, 
which he removed. Mrs C was unable to secure a builder to inspect the property to establish 
whether there was an underlying cause of the damp until June 2021, when a builder visited 
the property. He thought the problem was probably with a downpipe from the guttering (not 
the clump of grass or guttering). On the builders advice, Mrs C contacted RSA to report the 
problem, who appointed a surveyor (B) to inspect the property and assess the damage.
 
B inspected the property later in June 2021 and concluded that the issue was with a blocked 
downpipe, and said that the damage wouldnt be covered under Mrs Cs policy as it had 
been caused by rainwater ingress over a long period of time. Based on Bs assessment, 
RSA declined Mrs Cs claim.
Unhappy at her claim being declined, Mrs C complained to RSA. But they didnt uphold her 
complaint. In their final response they said that, based on Bs assessment, the damage to 
the wall of Mrs Cs property had been caused by water leaking from the downpipe onto the 
external wall and entering the property gradually. RSA also noted that from photographs of 
the downpipe taken by B, vegetation had been growing around the downpipe, indicating that 
there was a problem with a leak for some time. As such, RSA said the damage had occurred 
gradually (not from a one-off event) and under the terms of the policy any damage that 
happened gradually was excluded. Based on this RSA confirmed the decline of the claim.
Mrs C then complained to this service, unhappy at RSA declining her claim and how theyd 
handled matters. She asked that RSA accept her claim. She said that the incident had 
caused her significant stress and anxiety about the risk to her property and the damp smell 
from the wall. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding RSA didnt need to take any action. 
He thought RSA had acted fairly in declining the claim, based on Bs report and conclusion 
that the damage had occurred gradually and so wasnt an insured event under the policy.
Mrs C disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In doing so, Mrs C raised several points, including that she didnt think the 
vegetation was significant and more likely a small weed. She also reiterated the point about 
it being unreasonable for her to have been aware of the issue given the location of the 
downpipe at the rear of the property, which wasnt accessible other than walking around 
adjoining properties to access the rear garden. Mrs C also noted that the layout of the rear of 
the property was such that the downpipe could easily have been damaged (for example by a 
mower or other garden equipment).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether RSA have acted fairly towards Mrs C.
Id first want to reassure Mrs C that Ive carefully considered all the points shes raised, both 
in her initial complaint and those she raised when disagreeing with our investigators view/ 
While I havent set out every one of them in this decision, I have considered them and set 
out what I think are the main issues.
The central issue in Mrs Cs complaint is that RSA unfairly declined her claim for the damage 
to her property. She says that the location of the downpipe and the nature of the leak meant 
that they wouldnt have been aware of the leak and the damage until they noticed the damp 
patch on the wall of their living room. RSA say that the damage happened gradually and that 
as such was excluded from cover under the terms and conditions of the policy.
In considering the issue, Ive considered Bs report from their inspection, including 
photographs taken of the area of the downpipe (as well as inside the property). The 
photographs do show the downpipe and small pieces of vegetation that had taken root by it, 
as well as cracks in the adjoining wall rendering. The report also refers to the natural 
breakdown of materials and I also think the photographs are consistent with that 
assessment. So, Ive concluded that the damage occurred gradually over time.
In their final response, in support of their view, RSA point to a specific exclusion in the policy 
terms and conditions. The relevant exclusion (with RSAs emphasis) is contained in the 
section of the policy headed Exclusions which apply to the whole policy as follows:
9. Wear and tear
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused 
by, or resulting from wear and teardampor anything that happens gradually
Looking at this, I think its clear that the damage from the downpipe leak did occur gradually 
over time, even if it didnt become noticeable to Mrs C until the damp patch appeared on the 
interior wall of her living room. Ive considered what Mrs C has said about the location of the 
downpipe at the rear of the property meant it wouldnt have been something theyd have 
noticed. But her husband having looked at the guttering in March 2021 (and removing the 
clump of grass) suggests they knew about the likely area from where the problem began. I 
recognise that it may have been difficult to secure a builder to attend (until June) but I dont 
think that affects the conclusion that the damage happened gradually. 
Ive also considered her points about the vegetation being small. I accept thats the case 
from the photographs, but I think it does suggest that the area around the downpipe is wet (if 
not wet). And the location of the vegetation and the cracks in the adjoining wall rendering are 
some way up the downpipe, which wouldnt indicate that it was likely to have been damaged 
from contact with a mower. And this doesnt change the fact that the nature of the damage 
(both externally and internally) is consistent with it occurring gradually over time.
Taking all these points together, I dont think RSA have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Mrs Cs claim, in line with the exclusion in the policy for damage that occurs 
gradually over time.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman