DRN-3974118
Complaint
Ms S has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable and led to her going into a payment 
plan.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Ms S with an initial loan for £1,000.00 in January 2019. This loan 
had a term of 18 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £2,401.20, 
including interest, fees and charges of £1,401.20, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly 
instalments of £133.40. 
Everyday Loans then provided Ms S with a second loan for £5,000.00 in March 2022. This 
loan had an APR of 84.6% and a term of 48 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £13,395.84, including interest, fees and charges of £8,395.84, was due to be 
repaid in 48 monthly instalments of just under £280. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms S complaint. He thought Everyday Loans hadnt done 
anything wrong when providing loan 1. But that it should have seen that loan 2 was 
unaffordable for Ms S and therefore shouldnt have provided it. So he thought that Ms S 
complaint should be partially upheld. 
Ms S didnt disagree with the adjudicators assessment but Everyday Loans did. So the case 
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
As the parties are in agreement that Everyday Loans acted fairly and reasonably when 
providing loan 1, this decision is only looking at loan 2. And all references to loan made from 
this point onwards are made in relation to loan 2.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms S complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Ms S complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend to Ms S irresponsibly. In practice, 
what this means is Everyday Loans needed to find out enough about Ms S such that it could 
have a reasonable understanding of whether Ms S could afford to repay any credit it 
provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Ive kept all of this in mind when deciding whether Everyday Loans acted fairly and 
reasonably towards Ms S.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Ms S was already heavily 
indebted and that shed previously had significant difficulties repaying credit. The bank 
statements obtained also show that Ms S was having returned direct debit payments too. 
Im also concerned that Everyday Loans own income and expenditure calculation showed 
that this loan would take Ms S right to the margin of her disposal income. And Everyday 
Loans relied on the use of average data and minimum payments to her revolving credit 
commitments to calculate Ms S expenditure when arriving at its monthly disposable income 
figure.
Ive also considered that the recorded purpose of this loan appears to have been to 
purchase a car and debt consolidation. It clear what proportion of the funds advanced would 
be used to purchase a car and what was going to be used for consolidation purposes. In 
these circumstances, its unclear to me how or what was going to be consolidated and more 
crucially how this loan, which was on such disadvantageous terms, was going to improve  
Ms S outgoings going forward. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Ms S has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time she took out this loan. This is 
certainly backed up by the information gathered at the time of the advance. And while its 
possible Ms S difficulties reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my 
experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable 
or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Ms S version 
of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Ms S existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Ms S circumstances would more like 
than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to her. As 
Everyday Loans provided Ms S with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms S ended up paying (and is still being expected to pay) interest, fees and charges on a 
loan she shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Ms S lost out because of 
what Everyday Loans did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Ms S
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Ms S by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2 from the outset. The 
payments Ms S made, whether to Everyday Loans or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £5,000.00 originally lent. If Ms S has already repaid more than £5,000.00 then Everyday Loans should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Ms S;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Ms S to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Everyday Loans recorded about this loan should be removed from          
Ms S credit file.
If an outstanding balance does remain once all adjustments have been made, 
Everyday Loans should get in contact with Ms S to arrange an affordable payment 
plan. Id also remind Everyday Loans of its obligation to exercise forbearance and 
due consideration, in the event it intends to collect on an outstanding balance and it 
be the case that Ms S is experiencing financial difficulty. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms S complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman