DRN-1577008
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that The Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds review of his annuity 
found he wasnt due any redress.
Background
In December 2009 Mr R called Prudential, the conversation started with Mr R saying that 
hed not received an annual statement and a short discussion about this. Mr R asked about 
the current value of the plan and then whether he could take his benefits now. The call 
handler said that he could and confirmed that Mr R could take 25% of this as a tax free lump 
sum and the remainder as an annuity. The call-handler said they would send Mr R a 
retirement pack. 
A retirement pack was sent including Mr Rs quotation and a Key Features Document 
outlining his options. 
The quotation that Mr R received said on page 2 under a bolded title.
ENHANCED ANNUITIES
This illustration is based on standard annuity terms This is because we don't offer a 
higher annuity income based on any health or lifestyle factors that affect how long you 
or your partner (if joint life) might live, such as medication, occupation and smoking. 
This is known as an enhanced annuity and if you are eligible for this type of annuity, 
other providers could offer you a much higher level of income
If you have a serious health condition and your life expectancy is significantly reduced, 
you may be able to get all of your pension paid out tax-free If this is the case, please 
contact us as soon as possible
For annuities, it's important to shop around so you can get the highest possible 
income If you or your partner (if joint life) have or have had health and/or lifestyle 
conditions this can increase the amount of income you can get  It's important for you 
to know different  providers may use different criteria to assess health and/or lifestyle 
conditions which could result in you getting a higher income That's why it is very 
important that you shop around  If you don't shop around, you could lose out on a 
higher income
The Key Features Document made several other references to there being an option to take 
an enhanced annuity.
Mr R chose to take his benefits with Prudential, he selected to take a cash lump sum and an 
annuity with a five year guaranteed period.
More recently Prudential wrote to Mr R to say that it had looked at his annuity sale as part of 
an industry review carried out for non-advised sales of annuities. The purpose of this review 
was to look at whether customers had been given adequate information about their choices 
at the time. A big part of the review focused on situations where customers had a health condition that may have qualified them for an enhanced annuity but they chose not to take 
up this option.
Prudential contacted Mr R and he confirmed hed made his choices based on the 
documentation hed received at the time of taking the annuity. Prudential wrote to Mr R to 
say it had found that it had provided enough information for Mr R to make an informed 
choice about his annuity. And the outcome of the review was that there was no action 
needed.
Mr R was unhappy with this and raised a complaint. Prudential looked into it and explained 
in more detail why it had reached that outcome. It said that it had complied with the terms of 
the review it was asked to carry out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It said Mr R 
had confirmed that he had relied on the documentation he had received when making his 
choices. And Prudential confirmed that the FCA had determined that its standard retirement 
packs were compliant and contained enough information about the enhanced annuity option.
Prudential referred to the telephone call prior to Mr R taking his benefits but it said it had 
done nothing wrong here. As the conversation was only about providing Mr R with a quote 
rather than discussing his options.
However, it did uphold Mr Rs complaint about the standard of service hed received in 
dealing with his complaint and it paid Mr R £100 in recognition of this.
Mr R contacted this service as he remained unhappy with the result of the review. Our 
investigator looked into the case but he didnt recommend that it be upheld. His view was 
that Prudential had given Mr R enough information about the enhanced annuities in the 
retirement pack to make an informed choice. And he agreed with Prudential that the 
telephone call was just a request for a quotation rather than a time when his annuity options 
should have been discussed.
Mr R remained unhappy with this; he still felt that Prudential shouldve told him at the time of 
the call that there were other options available. Mr R also felt that the written documentation 
didnt make the enhanced annuity option clear or prominent enough. Mr R says he had a 
condition that wouldve qualified him for an enhanced annuity and he thinks Prudential 
should have done more to notify him of this. Mr R referred to the final notice issued against 
Prudential which explained its failings with regards to non-advised sales. He says the FCA 
review and the final report notice show that Prudential were miss-selling annuities at the time 
he took his out. And that he firmly believes he shouldve been told in the call about the 
enhanced annuity option.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues for me to decide is whether Prudential shouldve told Mr R about the enhanced 
annuity options in its telephone call with him prior to sending him his retirement options. And 
more widely has Prudential carried out its review of Mr Rs annuity sale fairly and in 
accordance with the instructions given by the regulator. 
Ive considered the arguments put forward by Mr R with reference to the thematic review 
document published by the FCA.
Prudential says it has carried out its review in line with the guidelines given by the FCA in 
this review. Its also said that its standard documentation has been deemed complaint by the FCA. Having looked at the review guidelines and the final notice which explained 
Prudentials failings, Im satisfied that Prudential has met the standard required in terms of 
the written documentation sent to Mr R. It did send Mr R its retirement pack that was 
deemed complaint. This made the option of the enhanced annuity clear. The quotation, as 
discussed above, prominently mentions the option of enhanced annuities. And the retirement 
pack included the Key Features Document that also had a number of sections where the 
enhanced annuity option was discussed. So I dont think any further discussion of the written 
documentation Mr R was provided with is necessary here.
However, as Mr R has pointed out the review guidelines also require firms to have 
adequately outlined customers options verbally if a conversation about this occurred.
Prudential say that as Mr R has confirmed that he relied only on the written documentation 
when making his choices, the review outcome is a non-uphold. It says that the call wasnt 
relevant as it wasnt about his retirement options.
However, Mr R has argued with reference to the final notice and the review guidelines that 
he shouldve been made aware in this call.
Looking at the FCA review it focuses and refers mostly to cases where a customer has 
received a warm-up pack before retirement and any significant communication that follows 
this. However, Mr Rs circumstances are somewhat different, he called Prudential to request 
a quotation rather than receiving a warm-up pack which prompted further contact. 
In the reviews overall conclusions it says:
The majority of our concerns arising from the review published here relate to 
significant oral communications (usually in the form of a telephone conversation) in 
which firms discussed with customers their annuity options, but did not mention 
enhanced annuities or the customers option to shop around on the open market for a 
higher income
The review says that in significant oral communications firms shouldve made customers 
aware of their options and specifically the enhanced annuity options available. It also 
explained that in its review, it found that often that firms were relying on their wake-up packs 
(sent by firms when customers were coming up to retirement) and not reinforcing these 
messages in subsequent calls.
So I do think it is important to take into account that this wasnt a call Mr R made after 
receiving his options as part of a proactive wake-up pack or a retirement pack that hed 
previously requested. At this point Mr R hadnt yet received any documentation about his 
options. 
In Mr Rs call the only reference to Mr Rs annuity options was whether he could take a lump 
sum when he asked whether he could take his benefits now. The call handler said that he 
could and that they would organise for Mr R to receive a retirement pack  as I said above, 
this retirement pack outlined all of his options including enhanced annuities. No further 
discussion occurred about Mr Rs annuity options after this.
The option to take a tax-free cash sum wouldve been available whether taking an annuity 
with Prudential or an enhanced annuity/open market option available elsewhere. So I dont 
think the call-handler wouldve thought it necessary to qualify this in terms of there being 
other options available and to go on to discuss these. This question was at a very basic level 
and was a question tagged onto the purpose of the call, Mr R enquiring about his annual 
statement and requesting a retirement quotation. The call-handler dealt with this call as a matter of a request being made and actioning this request  which they did as Mr R did then 
receive his quotation.
After listening to the call and considering the context around it, I dont think this qualifies as a 
significant communication as outlined in the review guidelines. The call wasnt a call about 
discussing Mr Rs annuity options, it was a call about his annual statement not being 
received and it progressed to Mr R requesting a retirement quotation. Mr R had not yet 
received any current documentation about his options at retirement. Whilst he did ask about 
whether he could take tax-free cash I dont think this constitutes a discussion about his 
annuity options and I dont think it reasonably shouldve led to one. I say this because Mr R 
wouldnt yet have known his annuity options and I think it wouldve been somewhat 
premature in this context for the call-handler to lead a discussion about all the options Mr R 
could have. Especially, as they wouldve known that shortly after Mr R would receive written 
documentation with the options outlined.
The review guidelines say that firms should consider all the significant communications as 
part of its assessment. However, it says conversations that were purely administrative can 
be discounted and for the reasons explained above, I do think Mr Rs call falls into this 
category. So I think Prudential was correct in discounting this call from its review and 
focusing on the written documentation he received.
So my conclusion is that Prudential has complied with the review guidelines. I appreciate 
that Mr R will be disappointed with my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman