DRN-1863055
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Miss C. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
So, Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in December 2004 alongside a store credit 
account. Miss C was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Miss Cs complaint. This is because, like our adjudicator, I dont think 
AXA set out clearly enough the costs and benefits of the PPI policy, when it was sold to Miss 
C. This means she didnt have the chance to make an informed choice. I think, in her 
circumstances, this would have made a difference to whether she took PPI. Her work 
benefits that she says were 6 months full and 6 months half pay, are likely to have made her 
think the cost of the PPI was not good value for her. 
I think Miss C has lost out as a result. AXA has questioned whether Miss C would have 
received the work benefits she says she had. But I have not seen anything that would 
suggest Miss C had anything other than what she said she had. She has been consistent to 
our service about her work benefits throughout her complaint. So, I uphold her complaint for 
the reasons I have given above.
Putting things right
AXA France IARD should put Miss C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Miss C would have owed when she closed her credit 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss C owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss C would have 
owed when she closed her account, from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Miss C would have owed each month without PPI     
Miss C paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss C wouldve owed AXA something on her credit. The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Miss C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. I require AXA France IARD 
to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman