DRN-3157645
The complaint
Miss R complains that a car acquired with finance from Santander Consumer (UK) plc wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2019 Miss R was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander.
In March 2021 Miss R was involved in an accident. Miss R was unhappy that the air bags 
hadnt deployed in the accident, despite the fact that her car had been catapulted into the air 
and she had suffered injuries.
Miss R raised a complaint with Santander. She said there was a fault with the airbags, and 
she didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality. She asked for a refund of all payments 
made under the agreement.
In response, Santander said there was no evidence to suggest that there were any faults 
with the air bags at the point of supply. It said it was unable to arrange an inspection of the 
car because it had been written off in the accident and was no longer in Miss Rs 
possession.
Miss R wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there was no evidence to suggest that 
there was a fault with the airbags.
Miss R didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Santander supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. Satisfactory quality includes things like the 
general condition of the car, fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs within the first 6 months of the 
point of supply, theres a presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply 
and its up to the business to put things right. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply.
When the car was supplied to Miss R, it was around 4 years old and had covered around 
33,000 miles. Id expect a  second hand car to have a degree of wear and tear, and to 
require repirs and maintenance more often than a brand new car.
Miss R and Santander disagree about whether the car had a fault with the airbags. Theres 
no dispute that the airbags didnt deploy in the accident. But the fact that the airbags didnt 
deploy doesnt automatically mean that theres a fault.
Theres no engineering or diagnostic evidence which suggest that there was a fault with the 
airbags. Miss R had been driving the car for around 21 months before the accident 
happened, and, on her own testimony, there were no warning lights or messages displayed 
to indicate that there was an issue with the airbags. If there had been a  fault with the 
airbags, or if they had been turned off, I would have expected a warning light to illuminate.
Ive looked at the cars MOT history. Theres nothing to suggest that the airbag warning light 
was illuminated or that there was any fault with the airbags.
Ive read Miss Rs account of the accident and I understand why she thinks the airbags 
should have deployed. Based on the information Ive seen, the airbags deploy if the sensors 
on the car instruct deployment. In some cases, the sensors dont deem the accident or 
impact to be severe enough to instruct deployment of the airbags  theres always a balance 
between the nature of the accident and the risk of injury to the driver or passenger from 
deployment of the airbags.
Im sorry to hear that Miss R was injured in the accident. But based on what Ive seen, there 
isnt any evidence to suggest that there was  a fault with the airbags. Because of this, Im 
unable to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, and I wont be asking Santander to 
do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman