DRN-2247394
The complaint
Mr S has complained that The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited (Shepherds Friendly) 
has declined his claim and cancelled his policy.
 
What happened
Mr S bought an income protection insurance policy through an independent broker, 
underwritten by Shepherds Friendly. He made a claim on the policy due to ill health. 
Shepherds Friendly said Mr S hadnt answered all questions correctly at the time of buying 
the policy. And it treated this as a careless qualifying misrepresentation which entitled it to 
cancel his policy and return his premiums.
Mr S brought his complaint to this Service. Our investigator didnt think it should be upheld 
as Shepherds Friendly wouldnt have offered Mr S a policy if hed accurately answered all 
the questions asked. And so Shepherds Friendly was entitled to cancel the policy. 
Mr S didnt agree and in summary, has made the following comments:
His undeclared conditions had nothing to do with his reason for claiming on the 
policy.
He answered all questions to the best of his knowledge.
At no point during the period of cover was any issue raised or clarification required.
He was required to answer questions, submit documents and resolve issues with his 
medical history whilst injured and heavily medicated.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying that my decision relates solely to Shepherds Friendly. Any complaint 
about the broker will need to be looked into separately.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Shepherds Friendly thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he failed to complete a questionnaire correctly. 
Ive looked at the questions asked and Mr S responses. I dont think Mr S took reasonable 
care when providing his responses. Mr S said he had never been diagnosed with raised 
cholesterol or high blood pressure and that his blood pressure, cholesterol and ECG results 
were all normal. But the medical history shows Mr S previously had elevated blood glucose 
levels, high blood pressure, and an abnormal ECG. And if Mr S declared all of this, 
Shepherds Friendly wouldnt have offered him cover.
Shepherds Friendly has provided a copy of its underwriting criteria which confirms Mr S 
wouldnt have been offered any cover. This means Im satisfied Mr S misrepresentation was 
a qualifying one. Shepherds Friendly has treated Mr S misrepresentation as a careless one 
as opposed to deliberate or reckless. 
Mr S has made a number of comments about his undeclared conditions and says he 
answered all questions to the best of his knowledge. I think the questions asked were clear. 
And I dont think its unreasonable that Mr S didnt remember all of his readings. But I would 
have expected him to have checked if he wasnt sure. And so I think its fair for Shepherds 
Friendly to treat the misrepresentation as careless rather than deliberate or reckless. 
Mr S also says he wasnt asked to provide any clarification prior to his claim and so 
Shepherds Friendly accepted his answers. It isnt unusual for an insurer to accept the 
answers given at the time a policy is bought  and its quite usual for an insurer to review the 
medical history at the time of a claim rather than at the point of sale. Ive looked at the policy 
terms and conditions which confirm that any information provided to it at the time of buying 
the policy must be true and accurate. 
I appreciate Mr S found the claims process frustrating. But I dont think Shepherds Friendly 
has done anything wrong by verifying cover as its entitled to do so before accepting a claim. 
Based on all of the evidence available and Mr S comments, Im satisfied that his 
misrepresentation should be treated as careless. Ive looked at the actions Shepherds 
Friendly can take in accordance with CIDRA. And in the circumstances, it has cancelled Mr 
Ss policy and returned his premiums. I think this is fair and reasonable as its in line with 
CIDRA. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman