DRN-3489024
The complaint
Mr C complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wrongly held him partly at fault for an 
accident after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C said hed reversed off his driveway and was fully established on the road when a car 
driven by someone leaving the house opposite his reversed off its driveway into his lane. 
The impact was to the front passenger-side door of the other car and to the corner of the 
drivers-side rear bumper of Mr Cs car. The other driver said shed reversed onto Mr Cs 
side of the road and had straightened her car up when his car reversed into the side of it.  
Initially, UKI held Mr C fully at fault. Later on it said liability should be split, as there was no 
independent evidence - which the other insurer accepted. 
When one of our investigators reviewed Mr Cs complaint, she noted that UKI initially thought 
the two driveways were directly opposite one another, and that the other driver was further 
along in her manoeuvre than Mr C was. She thought UKI had acted reasonably in deciding 
later on that liability should be split, based on the evidence it had. 
Mr C said once it was accepted that the two driveways werent opposite one another, it was 
obvious that the other driver had misled her insurer and UKI, as her version of events wasnt 
possible. He said UKI should have carried out more work before making its decision. As 
there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a provisional 
decision, upholding Mr Cs complaint, along the following lines: 
The policy gives UKI the right to settle any claim as it sees fit. We dont decide which 
party is to blame for an accident. We only look at whether an insurer acted 
reasonably in making its decision, by looking at all the evidence and reaching a fair 
conclusion based on it. Without independent evidence, its often hard for an insurer to 
say which party was at fault, as both versions of events may be plausible. If so, 
splitting liability may be the fairest outcome. 
In this case, I looked at satellite images of the location, plus all the evidence on the 
file. I could see why Mr C thought UKI couldnt reasonably have concluded that the 
other drivers version of events was plausible. Her driveway is further down the road 
from Mr Cs drive, on the opposite side, and she reversed to her right, putting her car 
even further away from his driveway. She said shed straightened up her car after 
reversing it and was facing forward, on Mr Cs side of the road, when he reversed 
into the side of her car. 
I thought the satellite view showed that the other drivers car would have been lined 
up with Mr Cs neighbours garden if that account was correct. I thought his car 
couldnt have hit the side of hers, based on the location of the driveways and the 
position of the damage done to each car - if her car was where she said it was at the 
point of impact. So I could see why Mr C thought UKI should have challenged her 
account. If it could be shown to be wrong, then both insurers would have had to 
consider what probably happened, based on the rest of the evidence.
Mr Cs account was that his car was straight, facing forward on the road, when the 
other drivers car suddenly came into view, just before the collision, and that her car 
was straddling two lanes and was positioned diagonally across the road. I thought his 
account was credible, given the position of the driveways and the location of the 
damage to the cars, especially without a plausible alternative account. 
I didnt think it was clear that UKI had challenged the other drivers account, when as 
far as I could see, it made no sense. I thought in proposing split liability, UKI had in 
effect accepted that both accounts of events were plausible, when the other drivers 
version wasnt in line with the physical evidence at all. I thought it was possible that 
had UKI challenged her account (explaining why it couldnt be correct) the other 
insurer may have accepted full liability. If it hadnt, UKI would have had to consider 
whether legal proceedings were appropriate. But as UKI didnt argue the merits of Mr 
Cs account, the other insurer didnt have to address the problems in the other 
drivers account or decide whether to change its stance. 
I said Mr Cs premium at renewal was likely to have risen partly because of the fault 
claim on his record. To put matters right, I proposed that UKI should change the 
record on databases to show the claim as non-fault, with his NCD allowed. I thought 
it should calculate what the premium would have been with a non-fault claim and 
refund the balance to Mr C, with interest, and pay him £100 compensation.   
Mr C accepted the provisional decision, but he said that (as UKI thought he was at 
fault for the accident) he had to pay £100 for an upgrade to the standard courtesy car 
he was given. UKI said had Mr Cs car not been moving at the point of impact, there 
would be scraping along the other drivers door, as it went past his stationary car. It 
said both cars must still have been reversing. UKI said had it challenged the other 
insurer, it didnt think it could have avoided liability completely, since Mr C had a duty 
to look behind him. It also said had the other insurer rejected the 50:50 split, it would 
not have defended the matter, as it thought a court was unlikely to find in its favour.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As far as I can see, Mr C hasnt raised the issue of having to pay for a superior courtesy car 
with UKI. As it hasnt had a chance to consider the issue, I cant address it here. And I dont 
think UKI has commented previously on the dent in the door of the other drivers car, and the 
lack of scraping along it. So I cant be sure that the type of damage to it was the reason for 
not challenging the other drivers version of events.
Whats certain is that UKI didnt refer to that issue in its final response letter. Instead, UKI 
said the dent supported the other drivers account, as it showed she was further through her 
manoeuvre than Mr C at the point of impact. It said her account was that shed finished her 
manoeuvre and was about to drive off ,when the corner of Mr Cs rear bumper hit the side of 
hers. As I said in my provisional decision, that version of events cant be correct, given the 
location of the driveways, so I cant see why UKI thinks the dent supports her account. 
I think the only way to get a dent in the front passenger side door (if the other drivers 
account is correct) would have been for Mr C to reverse into it from her left. Hed have had to 
do so at an acute angle, too  possibly driving backwards through his neighbours garden  
in order to hit her car with the drivers side corner of his bumper.
  
I dont think UKI reached the point where it would have had to argue with the other insurer 
about why there was a dent - and not a scrape  on the other cars door. And I think there 
may be other possible explanations for that. For example, if Mr Cs car was stationary, and the other driver saw it at the last minute and braked, the impact could have happened when 
her car had just about stopped moving. But I dont think thats the central issue here. 
I remain of the view that UKI should have challenged the other drivers version of events 
strenuously, as it made no sense, given the position of the driveways and the location of the 
damage to each car. The other insurer may have accepted that her version wasnt credible, 
had UKI explained to it why that was the case. I appreciate that had it not accepted full 
liability, UKI would then have had to consider whether there was a fair prospect of success 
should it take legal action. Depending on the strength of the other insurers arguments, UKI 
may have made a reasonable decision not to take the matter to court. But it would then have 
been in a position to explain its decision to Mr C, who may have accepted it. 
In my opinion, the main point is that it wasnt reasonable for UKI not to challenge the other 
drivers version of events when it wasnt credible. It isnt possible to say with certainty what 
would have happened had it done so. I think theres a fair chance that Mr C wouldnt have 
been held at fault - but the opportunity to find out was lost. As UKIs decision led to 
consequences for Mr C, including extra expense, plus inconvenience and disappointment, I 
think it should put matters right, as proposed in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Change the records on databases, including CUE (the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange) to show a non-fault claim for Mr C, with NCD allowed
Calculate the renewal premium Mr C would have been charged with a non-fault 
claim on his record and refund the difference to him
Add interest to the sum above, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. If UKI thinks its required by HM Revenue and 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr C how much it 
has taken off and provide a tax deduction certificate if required 
Pay Mr C £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman