DRN-4276641
The complaint
Mr S says Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) is responsible for the failure to pay his annuity 
over a period of nearly a year. After he first raised the problem with the firm it assured him 
matters would be resolved, but this didnt happen. He says this caused him considerable 
stress and inconvenience.
Mr S is represented by his daughter (Mrs X).
What happened
Mr S had an annuity with Phoenix which commenced in January 1991. He received a gross 
monthly payment of around £5,000. Mr S is a gentleman in his 90s. 
Unfortunately, from October 2021 a problem occurred with Mr Ss annuity payments. It 
seems he changed his banking arrangements but hadnt informed Phoenix. It told him that: 
Our records confirm we received confirmation from your bank your annuity payments due in 
October and November 2021 hadnt been paid and we put a stop on all future payments, so 
they werent returned also, we needed confirmation of the new bank details in order to re-
start payments and we wrote to you asking for a copy of your bank statement. I also 
understand you were in the process of moving address at this time.
Ive reviewed the case notes provided by Phoenix. They are not as clear as they couldve 
been. But the following timeline of events is constructed.
Mrs X contacted Phoenix on 4 May 2022 on behalf of her father stating that hed not 
received his annuity payments since October 2021. She made a further call on 20 May 2022, 
when its recorded Mr S confirmed he would speak to his bank about why it had returned his 
annuity payments. And Phoenix says it sent a letter the same day setting out the position.
On 14 June 2022 Mrs X called Phoenix saying her father really needed access to his funds. 
On 21 June 2022 it appears to have requested a copy of a bank statement for his new 
account. It received this on 29 June 2022.
On 14 July 2022 Mrs X requested confirmation that the back payments of her fathers 
annuity had been made. They hadnt been. Further calls were made by Mr S and his 
representatives chasing payment over the following weeks. It seems payment wasnt made 
until 8 August 2022.
Mr S complained to Phoenix about what had happened. In its final response to him of 12 
September 2022 it said:
We spoke with your daughter about the process and what we needed and we received your 
bank statement on 29 June 2022. However, we didnt make all the missed payments until 8 
August, which is unacceptable. We did speak to your daughter around this time, but gave 
her incorrect information about when the payments would be made.
I have looked at the process and the forms we issued and can appreciate we have delayed 
the process as well as giving your daughter incorrect information. As a result, I have upheld 
your complaint and feel we should have been in a position to pay the backdated premiums 
from October 2021 to May on 29 June, rather than 8 August. I also feel we would be in a 
position to have made the June and July payments on time had we acted on the bank 
statement, so I have also paid interest on those payments as well, from the dates they were 
due to 8 August when they were paid.
Phoenix offered Mr S compensation of £325.87 (net of tax) for interest on his missed annuity 
payments from the point it accepted responsibility for a delay (29 June 2022) until it paid his 
missing annuity instalments. It also offered him £100 for the poor service it had provided. In 
a subsequent letter to Mr S addressing matters related to his annuity payments from 
September 2022 which it had failed to respond to previously, it offered him a further £150 for 
its handling of his case.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Phoenixs offer to settle his complaint. His representative brought 
his case to this Service and said that as £60,000 had been withheld from her father for a 
year, he wanted £6,000 compensation. She said it had been an extremely anxious time for 
him and that his annuity was his main source of income.
An Investigator considered Mr Ss case and upheld it but not to the extent he wanted. She 
thought Phoenix had done enough to make up for the delay it had accepted responsibility for 
in paying his missed annuity instalments. But she thought in the circumstances, it should pay 
him a further £150 for the trouble and upset it had caused.
Mr S didnt think this was sufficient. His representative said:
Mr S would like the figure of £6,000 due to 12 months of non-payment of his pension. This 
figure represents what he feels is a fair figure taking into consider interest rates. The amount 
owing to Mr S was £60,000 and this was a huge problem managing without such a 
substantial payment over a year. The compensation offered is totally unsatisfactory for the 
anguish caused to Mr S.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions Mr Ss 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision last month. 
Despite my request for further information, neither party has responded substantively. So, I 
will base this final decision on the information available to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by 
Phoenix for Mr S. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). 
These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Phoenix. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
I asked the Investigator to approach both parties for more information  there were gaps in 
the positions each had advanced.
Mr S seeks £6,000 compensation. This appears to have been based on missed annuity 
payments for a year, and seeking 10% interest on this sum. In actuality, he missed annuity 
payments for ten months  which I accept is still a very long period. The Investigator has 
also explained our usual approach to awards of interest provides for 8% simple annual 
interest.
An important question arising here is which party was responsible for the missing annuity 
payments between October 2021 and July 2022? As we know, Phoenix accepts it was 
responsible for the delay in making payments from 29 June 2022 when it was informed of his 
new bank details. Mr S thinks it should be responsible from October 2021.
I sought confirmation from Mr S about why his bank had stopped accepting his annuity 
payments. Phoenix had asserted hed changed his banking arrangements. Despite my 
request for information neither he nor his representative has confirmed this is what 
happened. In the absence of information to the contrary, Ive assumed Mr S changed his 
bank account details. And that he failed to let Phoenix know about this.
However, we also know that Phoenix stopped making payments to Mr Ss old bank account 
from December 2021 because two of his prior payments had been returned. So I sought 
confirmation from it about how and when it had tried to contact him. It said:
Our file note says the customer had changed banks which was why he didnt receive his 
payments, it isnt for us to say why he chose to do so. He didnt provide a bank statement 
until 29 June 2022 to update. When we were made aware by telephone there was some 
issue with him not receiving his payments in May 22 we wrote to him, but I agree when we 
received returned payments from the bank we should have contacted him about this to 
ensure he could receive his money even if by cheque in the interim and I cant see that we 
did so until his next of kin called us in May 22. Prior to then there is no outbound 
correspondence since 2019 on record.
I sought confirmation from Mr S about how hed managed his expenditure given that hed 
been without what Mrs X had told this Service was his main source of income for about ten 
months. Mr S says he borrowed money and paid interest on this.
Im assuming that Mr S is in receipt of a state pension. If thats the case then his annuity 
wasnt his main source of income. I dont know what other household income he had access 
to either. He hasnt provided evidence to show he had to borrow money because he didnt 
have his annuity payments.Theres also an unanswered question for Mr S or his representative about why it wasnt until 
May 2022 that enquiries were made about his missed annuity payments. If he was incurring 
costly interest on borrowing its reasonable to assume he wouldve sought to resolve matters 
more quickly.
On the other hand, Im also mindful Mr S is a gentleman in his 90s who has acknowledged 
his memory isnt perfect in terms of what happened and when, over the period concerned. 
It seems to me both parties have some responsibility here in what happened. Mr S shouldve 
informed Phoenix about changing his banking arrangements. But it knew something had 
gone wrong because of the annuity payments which had bounced back for October and 
November 2021, indeed it put a stop on his payments so that wouldnt happen again. But its 
confirmed it did nothing to enquire about the situation. This is a failing on its part.
Had Phoenix communicated with Mr S in December 2021, I think its more likely than not 
hed have informed it about his new banking arrangements in time to make sure his January 
2022 annuity payment, together with his missing instalments, were paid on time.
In my provisional decision I said there was one important caveat to my conclusion here and 
a question for Mr S or his representative to respond to with evidence. I needed to know 
whether he had also changed his address. In its final response to him about his complaint, 
Phoenix suggests this was the case. I needed to know when he changed his contact 
address and when he notified his pension provider about this. Hes not provided me with any 
information about this.
Putting things right
When a firm gets something wrong, its the role of this Service to return the complainant to 
the position they wouldve been in now had it not been for its failings.
As Ive identified, both parties must take some responsibility for what happened. It seems Mr 
S failed to inform Phoenix about his new banking arrangements. But by December 2021 it 
was aware something had gone wrong and it did nothing to communicate with Mr S. I dont 
know whether Mr S also changed his address without informing Phoenix. Neither he nor his 
representative has provided evidence on this point. 
If Mr Ss contact details remained unchanged, or if they had changed and hed informed his 
pension provider of his new address, and he can provide Phoenix Life Limited with that 
evidence (or it is already in possession of such), it will need to assume following the contact 
it shouldve made around December 2021, then he wouldve informed it of his correct 
banking details in time for his back payments and his ongoing annuity to have been 
reinstated from January 2022 (the relevant date). And it will need to calculate 8% simple 
interest on those payments between the relevant date, or when payments subsequently 
became due, until it paid him the outstanding annuity instalments in August 2022.
On the other hand, if Mr S had changed address and hadnt updated Phoenix with his 
details, then even though it failed to try to make contact with him between cancelling his 
annuity payment and the contact it received months later from Mrs X, a further award of 
interest on top of what it has already offered wouldnt be appropriate. I say this because had 
it tried to contact Mr S any such contact would more likely than not have been unsuccessful.
Ive decided to base any award for interest on our standard approach of 8% simple annual 
interest. Thats because Ive seen no evidence from Mr S or his representative that he 
incurred any borrowing costs, and if he did what these were. When Im considering a complaint like Mr Ss I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Phoenixs acts and omissions were greater than just a minor 
inconvenience or upset. Its clear to me that this was the case here.
Mr S is a gentleman in his 90s. He was left without an important source of income for ten 
months. Hes told us about the worry this caused him and the trouble he had getting things 
put right. In recognition of the distress and inconvenience its failings have caused, I require 
Phoenix Life Limited to pay him £400. It can take off from this award anything it has already 
paid Mr S for trouble and upset.
I also require Phoenix Life Limited to provide Mr S will a schedule of all the annuity 
payments due to him from October 2021 until the date of this decision, when they were paid 
and to which account. The purpose is to provide him with assurance that all contractual 
payments have been made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint and require Phoenix Life Limited 
to put things right in the way Ive directed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman