DRN-3641042
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have failed to refund over £8,000 he lost 
as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr B authorised the disputed payments he made to Bit the 
Bank using his HSBC debit card (where his funds were subsequently transferred on 
to the scammers BTC Trends from his crypto wallet). The payments were 
requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by HSBC, and the 
starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers 
in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mr B 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr B has lost over £8,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character 
transaction. It was spread over several separate and smaller increments which, in my 
judgment, would not have appeared particularly unusual or out of character when 
compared with Mr Bs spending history. It wasnt unusual for him to make 
international payments, for example, and the payments were not of such an amount 
that they would represent a significant deviation from the usual pattern of spending 
on the account. The payments were also made to a legitimate crypto currency 
exchange platform, so there wouldnt have been cause for HSBC to have prevented 
the payments as a result of them being paid to a suspicious looking merchant either. 
So, having considered the payments Mr B made to Bit the Bank, Im not persuaded 
there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered HSBCs fraud monitoring 
systems, or that would have indicated he was in the process of being scammed. 
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr B reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered 
via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, Mr B 
used his debit card to pay a legitimate crypto-exchange platform before the funds 
were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt be able to make a 
successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the company he paid 
had provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). 
Therefore, I do not think HSBC were under any obligation to pursue a chargeback for 
Mr B either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr B, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold HSBC liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman