DRN-3945349
The complaint
Mr H, via a representative, has complained that Bank of Baroda (UK) Limited (Bank of 
Baroda) took too long to update the account holders on an account he has.
What happened
After the complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman, Bank of Baroda agreed to 
pay Mr H £200 compensation for the delays he experienced in adding his wife and daughter 
to his account.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they concluded that Bank of Barodas 
offer was fair in the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr Hs representative did not agree with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything that has been provided by all parties of this complaint, it is not in 
dispute that Bank of Baroda took an unreasonable amount of time to add the additional 
account holders to Mr Hs account. Indeed, Mr H first made the request to add his wife and 
daughter to his bank account in June 2021. And this was not completed until March 2022. 
Therefore, all that is left for me to consider is to decide whether Bank of Barodas offer to 
pay £200 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr Hs representative says that Bank of Baroda kept asking for very detailed information. 
The information requested included things such as occupation, income, source of wealth and 
also information about specific transactions that had taken place on the account in the past. 
The representative says that Mr H felt harassed by Bank of Baroda asking for this 
information.
I can see that Bank of Baroda did request a number of times for additional information about 
Mr H and the other account holders. Indeed, it seems that the bulk of delays were caused by 
Bank of Baroda having to request additional information. And then when it received a 
response from Mr H or his representative, it then had to consider whether the information 
provided was sufficient for its purposes. 
However, Im unable to say that the requests made were unreasonable or amount to 
harassment. I say this because banks (and other financial businesses) that operate and are 
regulated in the UK are obliged to adhere to the Regulators Know Your Customer (KYC) 
responsibilities (also known as Customer Due Diligence, or CDD). This often requires the 
bank to ask for fairly detailed personal information about an account holder(s) source of 
income and source of wealth  as was the case here. I should also point out that the KYC 
requirements places an ongoing duty on the business to ensure it has up to date information, 
therefore its not unusual for such information to be requested, even if an account holder has 
been a customer for a number of years.
Therefore, Bank of Baroda needed this information to be able to adhere to its regulatory 
obligations. As such, Im unable to say it has done anything wrong or acted unreasonably 
because it had to request fairly detailed information from Mr H, before it could update the 
account holders on the account. 
I also cant say that Bank of Baroda was being unreasonable because it had to ask for 
information on more than one occasion. I say this because what information it needs will 
vary based on the specific circumstances of the account holder(s). And it wont necessarily 
have known what additional information was needed until it had an opportunity to review the 
information that was initially provided.  
Having said that, although I think Bank of Baroda was reasonably justified in asking for the 
information that it did, there does appear to have been instances where the process was 
delayed unnecessarily. For example, Mr H had provided all of the necessary documentation 
by 22 January 2022, but Bank of Baroda didnt complete the additional account holder 
request until 18 March 2022.  
Conversely, it also appears that some of the delay occurred when Bank of Baroda was 
waiting for Mr H to provide the necessary information. For example, I understand that Bank 
of Baroda sent an email on 16 July 2021 asking for more information from Mr H and this was 
not received by Bank of Baroda until 30 September 2021. And I cant reasonably hold Bank 
of Baroda responsible for delays in the process whereby it was waiting for Mr H to respond.
Therefore, in summary, I do appreciate that this matter has caused some distress and 
frustration to Mr H. The process to add additional account holders has clearly taken longer 
than it shouldve done. But I dont think its reasonable that Bank of Baroda is held 
responsible if Mr H or his representatives felt harassed, as Bank of Baroda had legitimate 
grounds in which to ask for the information that it did. And Im mindful that an element of 
delay was due to Bank of Baroda waiting for the additional information to be provided  
which of course is beyond its control.
So taking everything into account, I think that the £200 offered by Bank of Baroda is not 
unreasonable, as I think it reasonably reflects the distress and frustration incurred by Mr H 
as a result of the portion of the delays that Bank of Baroda is responsible for.
Finally, I should add that I dont think that Bank of Baroda is required to reimburse Mr Hs 
costs because he chose to pay a third party to act as a representative. This is because 
firstly, I cant see that Bank of Baroda actually said that he could not add account holders to 
his account  it was just the case that it needed more information first, before it could 
process his request. And as mentioned above, I think Bank of Barodas requests were not 
unreasonable. Furthermore, Mr H (or a personal representative) was free to raise a 
complaint with Bank of Baroda - and also ask our service to consider the complaint - without 
needing to pay for a professional representative.
Putting things right
So to put matters right, Bank of Baroda should pay Mr H £200 compensation.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Baroda 
(UK) Limited to do what I have set out above to put matters right, in full and final settlement 
of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman