DRN-2238249
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage in 1996. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M were already living in their home when they took this mortgage out. They told 
us that the borrowing was to consolidate other debts. I can see that both the mortgage and 
PPI policy started in November 1996. The mortgage was redeemed in 2001. 
The PPI was set up to cover Mr M only and the monthly premium was £14.94. If they had to 
make a claim on the policy, the mortgage repayments would have been covered for up to 12 
months for each claim for unemployment, accident or sickness. In their complaint, Mr and 
Mrs M said they didnt need a PPI policy because they had substantial savings and already 
had insurance in place. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Through their representatives, 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and the matter was passed to me to make a final decision. I asked 
our adjudicator to request some further information about Mr Ms work. Following that, I can 
see that Mr M was working under a permanent contract when the PPI was sold.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, but I havent upheld their complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
The parties agree that PPI was sold during a meeting. I cant know what was said during that 
meeting. So to help me decide whats most likely to have happened, Ive looked at Mr and 
Mrs M told us about it. And Ive also considered the electronic records from Halifax that are 
available from the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr and Mrs M would have been clearly told that the 
PPI was optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. I can see from their 
PPI questionnaire that Mr and Mrs M say they were told it was better to have PPI. And in 
their response to our adjudicator, Mr and Mrs M said they were told everyone had PPI and 
that it was the trend at the time. 
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs M told us, but what they said doesnt indicate to me that the 
person selling PPI misled them into believing they didnt have a choice. And saying it was 
better for them to take it out isnt the same as saying they must. So from the evidence 
before me, I cant say Mr and Mrs M werent aware they could refuse this cover if they 
wanted to. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale and that puts extra responsibility on Halifax to take steps 
to ensure the cover was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs. To help me decide whether the 
cover was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions. And Ive also thought about Mr 
and Mrs Ms personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if theyd had to make a claim on the cover, their mortgage repayments would 
have been covered for up to 12 months if Mr M was off sick from work or if he lost his job. Mr 
M told us that he wasnt entitled to contractual sick pay if he couldnt work and so it follows 
that the cover would have lasted for longer than his sick pay entitlement. 
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs M told us about their other means. As I said above, they 
told us they had a substantial amount of savings that could have been used to repay this 
borrowing if Mr M did lose his job. But I note that this borrowing that was secured on their 
home was less than the savings they told us about and the purpose of the loan was to repay 
other debts. So even if Mr and Mrs Ms savings were at the high level they recall, it looks as 
though they wanted to keep their savings intact. And with PPI, they wouldnt have had to use 
their savings on their mortgage repayments if Mr M was out of work. 
Mr and Mrs M told us that they had other insurance policies in place. I can see they said they 
had life and critical illness cover. But I dont think these policies made the PPI unsuitable 
because they would have paid out in very different circumstances. The life cover would have 
only paid out in the unfortunate event of Mr Ms death and the critical illness would have only 
paid if he had been diagnosed with a specific medical condition. 
Mr and Mrs M also said that they already had an accident, sickness and redundancy policy 
in place. They couldnt remember where they bought this cover or who the provider was. 
They also told us they had no documentation available. But they were able to give some 
substantial detail about the policy in that Mr M would have had to be off work for 30 days 
before he could claim and that it paid a set amount of £200.  
Even if I accept that this cover was in place as Mr and Mrs M recall, it wouldnt have covered 
their mortgage repayments that were more than £300 per month. And Ive already set out 
that Mr M wouldnt have had any contractual sick pay. So their existing policy wouldnt have 
covered their housing costs. I must stress that their borrowing was secured on their home, 
which would have been at risk if they fell behind with their repayments. I dont think their 
existing cover made the PPI unsuitable. 
I can see that Mr M was diagnosed with a medical condition some time after the sale. But 
the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest Mr M had those difficulties in 1996 and I can see that 
Halifax recorded that he told it he didnt have a medical condition. I dont think hed have 
been affected by any of the exclusions relating to his health. And I havent seen anything 
else unusual about his employment circumstances that would have stopped him from 
making a successful claim if he needed to. 
With all of this in mind, I dont think Halifax recommended an unsuitable policy. 
Even so, Halifax still had to give Mr and Mrs M enough information about the cover so they 
could decide for themselves whether the PPI was a good fit for their needs. I accept its 
possible Halifax didnt tell Mr and Mrs M everything it should have done. But Ive set out 
above how the PPI could have been helpful if Mr M was out of work. And so it follows that I 
dont think more or better information would have caused them to act differently when they 
were considering whether to buy the PPI. I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but for the reasons given, I havent upheld their 
complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman