DRN-2876895
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Klarna Bank AB (publ)s (Klarna) response to her complaint about 
a finance agreement she took out with it.
What happened
In December 2019 Mrs W wanted to buy a mobile phone. She went to a local shop who I will 
call S to buy the mobile phone. It appears Mrs W did not want to buy a mobile phone on a 
contract. Rather, it appears she wanted a way to pay for the phone on interest free credit, 
which is what she suggests she thought S was offering. Mrs W explains one of the reasons 
she thought this was because this is what S told her. Moreover, her view was reinforced 
because the receipt for the phone she got from S did not indicate that there would be any 
additional costs such as interest payments.  Moreover, Mrs W indicates she thought she was 
getting credit directly from S she did not know about the involvement of Klarna.
However, Mrs W did not enter into an interest free credit agreement with S. Instead she 
entered into a finance agreement with Klarna which required her to pay interest on the credit 
it provided to her.
Further, Mrs W suggests she only found out that she had a credit agreement with Klarna 
when she received a monthly statement from it. Mrs W complained to Klarna.
Klarnas response was that the interest had been properly applied to the agreement. In 
particular, it indicated that during the application process this interest rate would have been 
apparent. It apologised if Mrs W had been misinformed by a member of Ss staff and it 
suggested she might want to take that up with S.
Dissatisfied Mrs W came to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ws complaint. She did not recommend upholding it.
It appears that Klarna accepted our investigators recommendation and Mrs W did not. 
In summary, Mrs W reiterated:
The sole reason why I went to [S was] because I was told there was no other costs.
Also, Mrs W underlined that she specifically asked S, at the point when she was buying the 
phone, if there were any additional costs and she was told no.  
Further, Mrs W pointed out that other options were available at the time, so she could have 
and would have gone elsewhere for interest free credit. But all of these other options were 
online. S was the only local supplier who was offering these terms though and her 
preference was for a local supplier. 
Mrs W also pointed out that she was there when the phone was sold and therefore naturally 
she is in a better position than us to know what happened on the day. She also let us know 
she did not get a hard copy of the contract at the time she bought the phone. 
Mrs W added that she thought she had been treated unfairly by both S and Klarna. Mrs W 
talked about TV shows that reported on rogue traders who operated in precisely the manner 
she suggests that S operated.
Mrs W asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The type of credit agreement that Mrs W entered into provides her with certain legal 
protections. Specifically, the law says that in certain circumstances if the debtor has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by a credit agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a breach of contract and or misrepresentation, then she has a like claim against 
the credit provider. So, if Mrs W has a claim against S for breach of contract and or 
misrepresentation she has a like claim against Klarna.
Further also because of the type of credit she used and Ss role as a credit broker of that 
credit Klarna is responsible for misrepresentations made by S before the contract for the 
credit was made.
Moreover, Klarna had an obligation to make sure that before she entered into the agreement 
Mrs W had been given sufficient information to know the terms on which she was 
contracting. It is not enough or even correct for Klarna to suggest that the obligation to 
explain the credit it Klarna provided rested only with a third party, that is S.
Mrs Ws position is very clear. She suggests that S gave her inaccurate information about 
the credit agreement that she used to buy her phone. She further suggests she relied on this 
inaccurate information to her detriment. She is adamant that if she had been given correct 
information she would not have gone ahead with the purchase. 
What Mrs W describes is misrepresentation. And I have already set out above what the law 
says about the protection she has against misrepresentation. I have to take account of 
relevant law, which this is, when I decide what is a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. It follows that if I find that the contract was misrepresented to her then I would 
think it is fair and reasonable that Klarna should put this right. 
Further Mrs W tells us that S made such a specific representation about how much shed 
pay for the phone in total that is became a term of the contract. Therefore, because she is 
paying interest on the credit she suggests there has been a breach of contract. Again, given 
the provisions of the relevant law, if I found that there has been a breach of contract, I would 
also say it is fair and reasonable to hold Klarna to account for this reason too.
Mrs W appears suggests that before she went to S she had been told that it was offering 
interest free credit on the phone she wanted to buy. Which is why she visited S in the first 
place. But she has not told us how she knew this or produced anything like advertising 
materials from S that said this.
Another difficulty for Mrs W here is that she tells us that S told her something that was untrue 
about the finance. That is, she is saying that the contract was verbally misrepresented. But by their very nature such alleged verbal conditions are hard to substantiate and I therefore 
have to assess this aspect on the basis of the balance of probabilities. I recognise that she 
was there when the whole event took place but that does not mean I have to rely solely on 
her version of events. 
Moreover, Mrs W did not enter into the contract solely based on the verbal pre-contractual 
negotiations. Rather, we are told by Klarna that in order to access the finance that she 
ultimately got, S would have had to take Mrs W through a sales process to apply for the 
finance. I recognise she indicates she was not taken through this particular process, quite 
the opposite. However, on balance, given the finance is in place and given it appears this 
process had to be followed in order to obtain it, I find it more likely than not S did go through 
this process with her. As part of this process there was a screenshot, which I have seen that 
set out reasonably clearly and prominently the basis on which the parties were contracting. 
In particular, it explains that the credit is being provided by Klarna and the interest rate to be 
applied. The interest rate is in bold. I therefore find it difficult to understand why Mrs W did 
not appear to question the information in the screenshot since it contradicted what she tells 
us she had just been told.
I have not seen anything in terms of promotional materials or Ss terms of business that 
suggest that S routinely contracted to provide interest free credit itself or through third 
parties, for the mobile phone that Mrs W bought.  Moreover, I think when considering what 
the contractual terms might have been it is reasonable in these circumstances to rely on the 
written contractual documents. Given the written contractual information shows that S was 
credit broking credit from Klarna that included interest, I find it unlikely that S told Mrs W the 
credit was interest free. Which means there can be no breach of contract on this point.
I think the receipt from S for the phone does not shed any light on the matter. I say this 
because I would not expect to see the interest mentioned on that receipt. Rather I would 
expect that information to be contained in the pre contractual information for the credit (here 
the screenshot) and the contract for the credit.
I realise Mrs W tells us she did not get an actual copy hard of the contract on the day. That 
may be so, but I think it is likely she was taken through the terms of the contract on the day 
she purchased, and the written contract reflects the terms agreed.
I do not doubt that there are traders out there who are engaged in sharp practice. And I am 
also sure that some of those merchants feature in television shows about scams. But 
nothing Mrs W says about those television programmes seems to be specific to S and how it 
carried out its business, so I dont find this information persuasive. In other words, just 
because there are businesses who mislead customers about finance and there are television 
shows made about this does not mean that I can find that on balance this is what happened 
to Mrs W, in the individual circumstances of this particular complaint.
For all of these individual reasons, I am not satisfied that I can find that Klarna acted 
inappropriately when Mrs W complained about the purchase of the phone which was funded 
by finance it provided. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman