DRN-3819348
The complaint
Ms F complains about Midway Insurance Services Limited (Midway) who failed to transfer a 
home insurance policy to her name.
What happened
Ms F contacted Midway and explained that she was in the process of buying an insured 
property and that her details had to be included on the policy, once exchange of contracts 
had taken place.  Ms F said that she was told by Midway that this would be done. Midway 
explained that it would be done, provided it got permission from the vendors (who were 
Midways policyholders) that the sale had completed. 
Ms F contacted Midway as she wanted to make a claim for poor workmanship on her garage 
that had been incorrectly demolished by her neighbour. But Midway explained to Ms F that 
once she had told it to carry out the transfer of the policy into her name, it contacted the 
vendors several times to get their permission. As they didnt receive the required permission 
because the vendors didnt respond, it was unable to transfer the details over.  
Midway also said that even if Ms Fs details had been on the policy, the claim that she 
wished to make wouldnt have been covered, as poor workmanship wasnt an insured peril. 
Ms F complained to Midway, who maintained its position in its final response. 
Ms F was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought it shouldnt be upheld. She said that it 
was reasonable for Midway to try and get permission from the vendors and when this wasnt 
received, it was fair that the transfer couldnt be done. 
She also said Midway confirmed that as the claim wasnt for an insured peril (as poor 
workmanship wasnt covered under the policy) it made no difference that the policy hadnt 
been correctly transferred. So, there was nothing further that she could reasonably ask 
Midway to do. 
Midway accepted the view. Ms F did not. She said that: Midway did not originally say if the 
policy holder confirms or myself and solicitor would have had it done / letter from the policy 
holder before transferring sale. Did you check the call or correspondence of April/ May 2021. 
When we did as asked and confirmed the sale. Then they say when Confirmed by policy 
holder. Also ridiculous as their policy now had the wrong owners. Is it not a olive to keep up 
to date accurate records. They says theyd come back to me with documents. No one 
followed up or made me aware. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Ms F, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Ms F explained that she contacted Midway to ensure that her name would be placed on the 
policy documents, following the exchange of the property. She said that Midway told her that 
this could be done. Midway confirmed that it told Ms F this but explained that permission 
would be needed from the vendors before the transfer could be completed. 
Midway has provided evidence that it contacted the vendors several times to obtain the 
permission. But it received no response. So, Midway were unable to carry out the transfer 
before the policy expired. 
I have had a thought about whether Midways actions were reasonable. And I think there 
were, so I will explain why. 
Ms F was aware that the policy had been in the vendors name.  Midway explained to Ms F 
that the policy would be transferred over, provided it obtained permission from the policy 
holders (the vendors). I have considered the evidence that Midway provided, that showed its 
attempts to contact the policyholders. I have also seen that Midway told Ms F that 
permission would be needed to confirm the transfer. 
Midway said that it received no response from the policyholders and without the permission 
the transfer couldnt be completed. Im satisfied that this was communicated to Ms F and I 
think that the actions Midway took were in line with what our service would expect. We would 
also expect Midway to have obtained the authority to transfer from the policyholders before 
details on the policy were changed. Midway further explained that despite the names not 
being changed, the policy still provided cover for the property. 
Ms F complained that Midway didnt contact her with updated documents. But, given that it 
hadnt been able to obtain permission from the policyholder, I wouldnt have expected it to 
have issued any updated documents. 
Finally, Ive had a look at the reason that Ms F said that she wanted to make a potential 
claim. Ms F said that her garage was demolished in error without her permission. The 
garage was rebuilt. But Ms F said that the standard of workmanship was poor and that it 
hadnt been rebuilt in the same position that it had previously been in. 
Midway said that the policy underwriters confirmed that poor workmanship wasnt covered 
under the policy. And even if the policy had correctly transferred to Ms F, the claim wouldnt 
have been accepted, given the exclusion on the policy. 
Having reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied that the policy exclusion that meant no cover is 
provided for poor workmanship, is a normal exclusion found in buildings insurance. So, I 
cant agree that Midway was unreasonable in relying on the policy exclusion, as a reason 
why it was unable to proceed with Ms Fs claim, had the transfer been complete. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Ms F will be, Im not 
satisfied that Midway were unfair or unreasonable in relying on the policy terms and in not 
transferring the policy to Ms Fs name. So, I wont be asking Midway to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman