DRN-2384482
The complaint
Mr K complains Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (trading as Thesis Servicing) wont 
refund him the repayments he made towards his student loan. Mr K also complains about 
the customer service it gave him in relation to that.
What happened
Mr K took out a student loan in 1996. Thesis took over the administration of the loan in 2008. 
In December 2018 Mr K contacted Thesis to find out about repayments he thought hed 
made to his loan. Thesis confirmed Mr K had made repayments totalling just over £500 
between May 1997 and July 2018, during a period when he hadnt applied for a deferment of 
his student loan repayments.
Mr K asked Thesis to refund the repayments hed made. He said hed never met the income 
threshold for repayments. And that he hadnt been well enough to pursue this matter sooner 
because of the health condition hed been diagnosed with in around 2002, and which hed 
struggled with for many years before that. 
In January 2019 Thesis asked Mr K to provide evidence about his health and his income 
around the time hed made the repayments, so it could review things. In June 2019 Mr K 
provided a letter from his doctor and documents from HM Revenue and Customs. Thesis 
considered them but in late June 2019 it told Mr K it wouldnt refund the repayments 
because it didnt think his health difficulties had prevented him from completing the 
deferment at that time. 
In further communication, Mr K told Thesis he didnt think it had treated him fairly and that 
this had caused him distress and inconvenience. For its part, Thesis said it had tried to 
assist Mr K by noting the health difficulties hed recently told it about, and by offering to 
review things for him. But that it hadnt said it would definitely give him a refund if he 
provided evidence about his health and income. It said it was sorry for any concern Mr K had 
been caused and offered to refund Mr K for the £25 hed had to pay for a doctors letter.
Mr K thought Thesis was treating him unfairly and minimising the impact of his health 
difficulties, so he referred his complaint about the refunds to our service. And he told us he 
was unhappy with how Thesis handled things when he was trying to find out more about his 
loan and repayments. He said it was a long, drawn out process which caused him 
inconvenience and left him out of pocket. And that Thesis led him to believe it would refund 
him if he provided evidence of his income and health, and had treated him without empathy 
or understanding.
For its part, Thesis told our service Mr K had complained about the repayment refunds too 
late. 
After looking into things, our investigator said Mr K had brought his refund complaint too late 
for our service to be able to consider it. Mr K disagreed. He said he wasnt aware of the time 
limit rules and hadnt been well enough to pursue this matter within the time limits, and that 
both Thesis and our service had disregarded the impact of his health condition. And he said 
again that Thesis had unnecessarily drawn things out and had made things difficult to try and 
discourage him. And that hed never earned enough to meet the loan repayment threshold. 
As Mr K disagreed, his complaint came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision 
on 22 October 2020, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the health difficulties Mr K has told us about, and I dont underestimate
the impact hes told us theyve had on him. But as things currently stand I dont think his
complaint about a refund of repayments is one our service has the power to look into.
We arent free to look into every complaint brought to us. Instead, we have to follow the
Dispute Resolution Complaints rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority in its
handbook. These are known as the DISP rules.
One of these rules (DISP 2.8.2) says that, unless the business consents, we cant look at a
complaint if it was made:
more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
The repayments Mr K complains of happened between 1997 and 1998, which is clearly
more than six years before he raised his concerns with Thesis in 2018. So I think his
complaint is out of time on the six year part of the rule.
I therefore need to consider the three year part of the rule, which is about when Mr K
became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, he had cause for complaint.
Mr K told our service that he knew in 1997 and 1998 that hed made these repayments,
because he saw them on his bank statements then. And he said his health condition, which
hes struggled with for many years, meant that he didnt feel well enough to contest them at
that time. Mr K also said that when he felt well enough, he asked Thesis for a further
deferment of his loan repayments  Thesis says Mr K asked for a deferment application in
July 1998 and completed and returned it so the deferment started in September 1998.
Based on what Mr K has told us, I think its fair to say Mr K knew by July 1998  the date of
the last loan repayment he made - that hed made these repayments and that he wanted to
contest them. So I think Mr K is out of time on the three year part of the rule too.
Thesis doesnt consent to our service considering Mr Ks complaint about repayment
refunds. Therefore, the rules mean the only way I can consider it is if I thought there were
exceptional circumstances that meant Mr K was unable to bring this complaint within the
time limits.
Mr K feels very strongly that there are exceptional circumstances. Hes told us about the
health condition he was diagnosed with in around 2002 and the impact this has had on him,
and Ive seen the letter Mr Ks doctor wrote to say Mr K would have been suffering with this
health condition in about 1996 and 1998 too. Mr K has also told us things were difficult
around that time, and that he moved home five times within two years. Mr K says all this left
him unable to deal with the loan repayments matter at that time.But the bar for exceptional circumstances is a high one  the example given in the rules is
that of a consumer being incapacitated. And from the information both Mr K and Thesis have
provided, Ive seen Mr K was able to manage his student loan from about April 1998
onwards, as this was when he began making annual deferment applications again. So while
Im not in any way minimising the difficulties Mr Ks told us about, I cant fairly say he would
have been unable to raise a complaint about his loan repayments within the time limits. So I
dont think exceptional circumstances apply here. And while I know Mr K says he wasnt
aware of the rules, they nonetheless still apply and I cant choose to disregard them.
For these reasons, I think Mr Ks complaint about a refund of his loan repayments has been
made too late for our service to be able to consider it. But while thats the crux of Mr Ks
complaint, I note hes also unhappy with Thesis handling of his repayment enquiry and
refund request  that it was a drawn out process which caused him inconvenience and
distress, and left him out of pocket. He says Thesis led him to believe it would refund his
repayments if he provided evidence of his income and health, and that it hadnt treated him
with empathy or understanding. These things happened from December 2018 onwards, so
they are within the DISP time limits and I can therefore consider them.
Mr K says it was a drawn out process. Mr K first contacted Thesis to ask about his
repayments in December 2018 and it told him in late June 2019 that it wouldnt refund them.
I can appreciate this might have taken longer than Mr K would have liked but I dont think it
was an unreasonably long time, given Thesis needed to clarify when the repayments had
happened, get information from the company that had previously administered the loan, and
consider the further health and income information Mr K had provided. And Ive not seen
that Thesis caused any unnecessary delays.
Mr K says Thesis made him believe it would refund the repayments if he provided further
information. I can understand that Mr K might have hoped providing further information could
lead to a refund. But based on the correspondence Ive been provided, I think Thesis made
clear that it was offering to review things - Ive not seen that it told Mr K he only needed to
provide some further information and it would definitely give him a refund.
Mr K also says Thesis has treated him without empathy or understanding. But from the
correspondence Ive been provided with, I can see that Thesis noted what Mr K said about
his health and situation, asked for evidence of that so it could consider it properly, and had
its senior managers review the evidence Mr K provided. Thesis also offered to refund the
£25 Mr K paid for a doctors letter, which I gather it has paid to Mr K. I think the tone of
Thesis communication with Mr K was polite and not unsympathetic, though it wasnt
resolving things as Mr K would have liked.
So I dont think Thesis did anything wrong in its handling of Mr Ks loan repayment enquiry
and his refund request. Therefore, Im not intending to say it should do anything further.
Neither Mr K or Thesis provided any comments or further evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. So Ive gone on to make my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said I thought Mr Ks complaint about a refund of his loan 
repayments was made too late for our service to be able to consider it. 
However, I said we could consider his complaint about the customer service he was given in 
relation to that. But that I didnt intend to uphold that complaint because I dont think Thesis 
took an unreasonably long time or gave Mr K poor customer service.
As Mr K and Thesis havent provided any evidence or further comments for me to consider, I 
see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and also above, our service cant consider 
Mr Ks complaint about a refund of repayments. But we can consider his complaint about the 
customer service he was given in relation to that, and Im not upholding that complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman