DRN-1395824
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about the suitability of the advice he was given by Wesleyan Assurance 
Society (Wesleyan) when he contracted out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS) and took out an appropriate personal pension plan. He says he was pressured 
into taking out the plan and told that he wouldnt need any other pensions. He says he hasnt 
received any ongoing information about the plan, so he wasnt aware of its value or that his 
contributions had been stopped. 
What happened
In March 1989 Mr H completed an application form through Wesleyan to contract out of 
SERPS from the following tax year. He was 29 years old and had declared earnings of 
£9,000 per annum.
In August 2018 Mr H applied to draw his entire pension fund as a lump sum. It was valued at 
£69,692.61 at that point. When Mr H became aware of the amount he was going to receive 
he was concerned, as he didnt think it wouldnt be enough for his retirement. He recalled 
Wesleyan telling him, at the time of his application, that the pension would be sufficient for 
his retirement and he wouldnt need any further provision. He also didnt think Wesleyan had 
sent him any information or statements relating to his pension in the ensuing years. 
So Mr H complained to Wesleyan. He said the plan had been mis-sold to him and hed been 
pressurised into taking it out. He also said hed been told this was the only pension he would 
need and could continue to pay into it until retirement. Wesleyan said that at the time the 
requirements around advice were less stringent than today, but it believed that Mr H was 
eligible to contract out of SERPS and that the adviser would have provided details of the 
product particulars  including charges  and the suitability of the plan for Mr Hs needs. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Wesleyans response, so he brought his complaint to us where 
one of our investigators looked into the matter. She said she thought Wesleyans advice for 
Mr H to contract out of SERPS was suitable and it was only with the benefit of hindsight that 
its possible to say he would have been better off not doing so. She also said that there was 
no evidence to confirm what had been said at the time of the recommendation, and she 
clarified that the requirements of what information needed to be retained from 1989 was 
somewhat different to expectations of today. But she said she couldnt conclude Wesleyan 
had done anything wrong and didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree. He said he was told at the time that he wouldnt need another pension. He 
didnt think it was fair that he needed to provide evidence to show that hed been told that. 
He said he wanted his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to 
me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I know 
this outcome will come as a disappointment to Mr H  so Ill explain my reasons.
Suitability of the advice
In 1989 there wasnt a general requirement to carry out a detailed fact find or suitability 
report when advising a consumer to contract out of SERPS. The main factors to consider 
when deciding if an individual might be better off contracting out were age, earnings and the 
length of time to retirement. 
In this case Mr H was below what was known as the pivotal age and his earnings were 
above the relevant lower earnings limit. And as he was 29 years old at the time of the advice 
there were a number of years before his intended retirement age. So, based on what was 
known at the time, and considering Wesleyans requirements to explain its recommendation, 
I think the advice was appropriate and gave Mr H a reasonable prospect of enjoying greater 
benefits at retirement.
The suggestion that Wesleyan told Mr H he wouldnt need any further pension provision
Mr H says he was told that the plan hed taken out  to allow him to contract out of SERPS 
through a personal pension plan  was sufficient for his pension needs and that he didnt 
need to do anything further. He says therefore he was mis-advised because his pension isnt 
enough as retirement provision. Mr H says he was working for Wesleyan at that time and 
was pushed into taking this policy to get a sale and keep his job.
I know Mr H is disappointed that it seems to him that he must prove what he was told instead 
of us believing his statements. Unfortunately, due to the passage of time theres no evidence 
available to confirm what was said or discussed at the time. But, while I have no reason to 
dispute Mr Hs version of events, theres no persuasive evidence to suggest that Mr H was 
told not to make any further contributions towards his retirement provision. 
I think it would have been impossible for anyone to have known in 1989 what level of 
pension Mr H would receive at retirement with so many factors likely to have affected that 
outcome. I think on the balance of probability, while Wesleyan might have tried to be positive 
about the plan it had recommended, its unlikely it would have instructed him directly not to 
do anything further.  I recognise Mr H feels very strongly about what he says he was told but, 
on balance, I dont think he would have been told not to make any further provision for his 
retirement during his working life.  
Without any persuasive evidence beyond Mr Hs recollections its difficult for me to safely 
say that Wesleyan did anything wrong here. 
Lack of information about the plan
Mr H said he never received any information about his pension during this time. He said he 
didnt raise that issue with Wesleyan because he forgot all about the plan and wasnt 
prompted by receiving any information. 
But I cant agree with Mr H as Ive seen copies of a number of the annual statements that 
were sent to him from 2005. Ive seen that each statement provided an up to date fund value 
as well as the amount that had been received by the plan each year. But it also set out an 
illustration of the likely pension Mr H might receive, and the 2010 statement for example 
showed this figure to be around £2,300 per annum. So even if Mr H had been told this pension would have been sufficient for his retirement 
needs when he took it out, he ought to have realised  from the information contained within 
the statements, that this wasnt the case. Ive also noted that the 2015 statement said that no 
contributions were received between 31 March 2013 and 2014. And subsequent statements 
confirmed the same position each year. So even if Mr H wasnt fully aware of how the plan 
worked, I would have expected him to query why payments had stopped  especially if he 
had a belief that the plan was going to fulfil all his retirement needs. 
But it wasnt Wesleyans decision to stop the contributions into the plan as explained by the 
additional information section within the statement which said, the government ended 
contracting out of the state second pension on 6 April 2012. This means that no more 
contributions will be paid in to this plan. Depending on the fund value, the charges we take 
could reduce the plans value over time. Therefore, it may be a good time to review your plan 
to make sure it still meets your needs. 
This information wasnt in line with what Mr H says he was told by Wesleyan in 1989. But 
although Wesleyan wouldnt have been aware of the change the government would later 
make in 2012, I would have expected Mr H to question the statement above in relation to the 
way he understood his plan would work. 
Wesleyan has confirmed that Mr H made it aware of his change of address in 2007  so Im 
satisfied that it sent this information to Mr H as required. I think Mr H was in possession of all 
the information he needed to make him aware of how much he was likely to receive in 
retirement and how much was being paid into the plan each year to achieve that goal.
I dont dispute Mr Hs version of events and hes been consistent in what hes said. Ive 
listened carefully to his telephone conversation with Wesleyan when he said When did I 
stop paying into it? I mean Ive had nothing. And he expressed his concern about the lack of 
information Wesleyan was able to provide on the telephone about the plan. But that doesnt 
mean Wesleyan did anything wrong here and Im satisfied that it did provide Mr H with 
ongoing information that should have made him aware of the situation with his retirement 
provision. 
The comparison of the situation with Mr Hs friend
Mr H says a friend of his received redress from a different provider about the same issue. He 
says this shows that he was mis advised and should be compensated appropriately. But I 
think any complaint thats made is usually investigated considering its particular 
circumstances. Two cases that can appear similar may get different answers due to the 
circumstances of that complaint.
I can only consider the complaint Mr H has brought to us and, based on what Ive seen, I 
cant say that he was given unsuitable advice to contract out of SERPS in 1989 or that he 
was advised not to make any other provision for his retirement. And I think Wesleyan did 
make Mr H aware of how his plan was performing over the years and when his contributions 
stopped being paid into the plan  which was a result of government legislation. So I dont 
think Wesleyan has done anything wrong here. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman