DRN-2340031
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has unfairly declined
their home insurance claim for damage to their floor slab caused by an escape of water.
What happened
When Mr and Mrs K were undertaking some redecoration works at their home a visiting
flooring contractor noticed there was some cracking to their concrete floor slab. Damp
readings were taken and they were noted to be high. Mr and Mrs K then sought the advice
of a specialist engineer to assess the damage. Bore-holes were dug in a variety of
locations across the ground floor and the samples taken of the fill and concrete were sent
off for testing. The engineer reported to Mr and Mrs K that the damage to their concrete
slab was the result of sulphate attack likely initiated by a leaking underground pipe. The
engineer said the leak would need to be identified and repaired followed by a repair to the
slab itself.
The test results obtained from the samples taken from the bore-holes confirmed there was
ammonia and fluoride present. The engineer reported this likely suggested the source of
the moisture was from a leak in a fresh water or waste pipe rather than caused by ground
water.
Mr and Mrs K contacted RSA and made a claim. RSA instructed its own building specialist
to visit the property to inspect and report on the damage. It concluded that the damage
had occurred due to a sulphate attack on the concrete floor likely caused by a release of
moisture from an unnatural source such as an underground drain. It recommended to
RSA that a CCTV survey of the drains was carried out to see if any defects were present.
And it estimated the cost of repair works to be in the order of £40,000 plus VAT. Finally, it
said that if CCTV survey of the drains indicated defects were present then damage had
arisen due to an escape of water.
RSA considered the report and notified Mr and Mrs K that it was declining their claim. It
said that the damage to their slab hadnt been caused by any of the insured perils under
the policy. It said its building specialist and Mr and Mrs Ks engineer had all concluded
that he damage was the result of a sulphate attack. It said this occurred when sulphates
present in contaminated fill reacted with the cement constituent of the concrete. It said
this caused a chemical reaction which caused the concrete to swell and push out the lower 
walls around the perimeter of the building. It said the whole process occurred gradually and
that their policy excluded damage that occurred gradually.
Mr and Mrs K complained to RSA. It looked in to their complaint but didnt think its unfairly
declined their claim. It said that it had been suggested that a leaking pipe might be the
cause but this had yet to be determined.
Mr and Mrs K then sent RSA a video of an exposed leaking draining pipe under their
floor and asked it to reconsider its decision to decline their claim. RSA said if they
elected to undertake repairs in the meantime their position wouldnt be prejudiced.
Having reviewed its decision, RSA told Mr and Mrs K it wasnt accepting their claim. It
said that whilst their video confirmed there was a leak there was no cover under their
policy for repairing leaks or for tracing and accessing them. It said the damage caused
by the leak was actually the elevated moisture levels with the slab. But it said the
presence of ground water, the absence of any damp-proof membrane (DPM) and the
composition of the slab made a sulphate attack inevitable. It said it wasnt liable for the
cost of replacing the floor slab because the damage was the result of a sulphate attack 
which wasnt covered by the policy terms. RSA said that even if the policy covered the
damage, the fact it had occurred gradually meant cover was excluded.
Unhappy with the position RSA had taken in relation to their claim, Mr and Mrs K
complained to this service. They confirmed they had had the repair works undertaken but
had had to borrow money from the bank and from family in order to cover the cost. Mr and
Mrs K said RSA had ignored the fact thered been a leak in an underground pipe.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that it was upheld. She
thought RSA should pay for the repairs to the floor and the underground pipe along with
compensation of £200 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs K.
RSA disagreed with our investigators findings and the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision in October 2020 recommending that the complaint was upheld. I made 
the following provisional findings:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that this complaint should be upheld but for slightly
different reasons. I also think the redress should be slightly different as well.
the claim
Mr and Mrs Ks policy covers them for damage caused to their home by a number of
insured events (or perils) such as fire, theft, storm, escape of water etc. Specifically, the
policy says: The buildings are insured against loss or physical damage by the following
causes:water escaping from fixed water or fixed heating systems.
RSAs own expert says in its report: It is our opinion that the damage has occurred due
to sulphate attack of the concrete floor. The indicators are that the release of moisture
which led to the onset of sulphate attack, is from an unnatural source such as an
underground drainWe would recommend that a CCTV survey of the drains is carried
out. And in its covering email to RSA it said: Testing of the fill has indicated a
presence of fluorides and ammonia which would indicate the moisture to be from a
leaking pipe.
Mr and Mrs K instructed their own engineer and they sent the report he prepared to RSA
to review. Their engineer said: The high moisture content along with the presence of
Ammonias and Fluorides within all three sample areas would suggest an internal leaking
pipe such as a fresh water supply and/or a bathroom/w.c. pipe.
Mr and Mrs K have provided a video to us, and RSA, showing a pipe exposed in their
floor which is leaking.
So, its clear to me that there was a leaking pipe under the floor that led to the moisturelevels in the floor becoming elevated. It is not immediately apparent to me why RSA
didnt follow the advice of its specialist to locate the source of the leak it reported was
likely to be going on. That there was no cover under the policy for damage to
underground drains or trace and access cover is of no relevance. There is cover for
damage cause by escape of water and an escape of water was cited by the experts as
the likely cause of the damage. I dont think RSA behaved fairly or reasonably towards
Mr and Mrs K by declining to investigate what was causing it.
As I understand it, increased moisture levels (from the leaking pipe) reacted with the
sulphates present in the fill beneath the concrete slab. This then caused a chemical
reaction known as a sulphate attack where the sulphates reacted with the cement in the
concrete. Without the escape of water from the leaking pipe I dont think that the attack 
wouldve occurred. I note that RSA says that the presence of groundwater, absence of a 
DPM and he composition of the slab made such an attack inevitable but Im not persuaded 
that the evidence allows such a conclusion to be reached.
I say that because, Mr and Mrs Ks expert says the leaking pipe is the most likely
moisture source because of the presence of ammonia and fluoride in the bore hole
samples. He says neither are naturally found in ground water so the source of the leak is
most likely from an internal household water pipe. He goes on to say that the existence of
the leaking pipe cant be overlooked as the cause of the sulphate attack in favour of
natural groundwater reacting with sulphates and attacking the slab due to the lack of a
DPM. Whilst he acknowledges the lack of a DPM could allow any ground water to present
in the infill to initiate an attack, the fact remains that Mr and Mrs Ks house was built in the
region of 50 years ago and the slab had remained intact until recently suggesting a
different source must be the cause  namely the leaking pipe. RSAs experts were of a
similar view hence its recommendation that a CCTV survey be undertaken.
I appreciate that RSA has argued that the leaking pipe didnt cause the damage, rather the
proximate cause was the sulphate attack (which the policy doesnt cover) but Im unable to
agree. The escape of water from the pipe allowed the moisture levels to rise which in turn
caused the sulphate attack which caused the damage. The chain of causation wasnt
broken. And theres no evidence that would allow me to reasonably conclude that without
the leak that a sulphate attack was inevitable, nor is there any evidence that the sulphate
attack was unrelated to the leak in the drain. I cant ignore that Mr and Mrs Ks house had
stood for many decades and theyd lived in it for 15 years without a sulphate attack
occurring until the drain leaked.
So, I think its clear there was an escape of water from a fixed water system that has
caused damage. That being the case, RSA must meet the claim unless it can rely on one
of the policy exclusions to defeat it. RSA says it is relying on the policy exclusion for
damage caused gradually. It says that irrespective of the existence of the leak, the
damage to the slab by the sulphate attack occurred gradually over a long period of time
so isnt covered.
RSA is well aware of this services approach to the application of any policy exclusion for
damage caused gradually when the policyholder cannot be aware its happening. Whilst
the strict application of the policy terms permits RSA to decline the claim, this service takes
the view that where a policyholder wasnt (or wasnt reasonably) aware that the damage
was happening gradually  and that they made the claim, or took reasonable action, as
soon as they became aware  were likely to say that a fair and reasonable outcome is
that the insurer cant rely on the exclusion and should pay the claim. Thats because, if
the policyholder couldnt have known about the damage they were unable to take action
to stop it. As they couldnt have done anymore, it isnt fair for them to lose out to the
exclusion.Its clear from Mr and Mrs Ks evidence that they were unaware they had a problem until
their flooring contractor lifted their carpets and pointed it out to them. Most people dont lift
their carpets so I dont think its unfair to say that Mr and Mrs K couldnt reasonably have
been aware that the sulphate attack was gradually damaging their slab. It follows that, in
the circumstances of this claim, I dont think that RSA can fairly apply the gradual damage
exclusion.
redress
Mr and Mrs K arranged to have the repairs to their home done themselves. They have
told us that to fund the repairs they took a loan from the bank and borrowed from family.
As I think that RSA unfairly and unreasonably declined Mr and Mrs Ks claim for damage
caused to their home by an escape of water I think it must now reimburse them for the
cost of the repairs that arose from the damage including any reinstatement works that
were necessary (redecoration etc.) Mr and Mrs K should provide RSA with details of the
works they had done and proof of the cost they incurred (contractors invoices, receipts
etc.).
As Mr and Mr K have been out of pocket since settling the invoices etc. RSA must pay
them interest. Insofar as the commercial loan they took out covered a proportion of the
repair and reinstatement costs they should be reimbursed for the interest they paid on the
loan from the date they took it out to the date it is/was repaid. Any early redemption
penalties they have/ will incur should also be paid to them by RSA. Mr and Mrs K will need
to provide RSA with a copy of the loan agreement and confirmation from the lender about
how much it will cost to redeem it.
Insofar as the proportion of the repair and reinstatement costs were covered by non-
commercial borrowing RSA should pay interest on the amounts Mr and Mrs K paid out
to contractors from the date any invoices were settled until the date RSA settles my
award at this services usual rate of 8% simple a year.
damage to underground pipe
RSAs decision not to arrange a CCTV survey of the underground pipes at Mr and Mr Ks
house (in order to find the source of the leak) appears to be based on the fact there is no
cover under the standard policy Mr and Mrs K have for breakage to underground pipes
or tracing and accessing leaks. Mr and Mrs K were forced to find the leak themselves,
expose the pipe and then repair it.
Whilst the terms of the cover Mr and Mrs Ks policy provides doesnt extend to breakage
to underground pipes and tracing and accessing leaks I can see that such cover is
available to policyholders for an additional premium. Cover for accidental breakage/damage 
to underground pipes is fairly standard to most home insurance policies  it isnt typically the 
case that policyholders have to buy an upgrade to get it. That being the case, the fact this 
cover wasnt included as part of RSAs standard buildings cover shouldve been highlighted 
to Mr and Mrs K when the policy was sold. Ive seen no evidence that it was. If Mr and Mrs K 
had been aware they couldve got such cover as standard with another insurer, its 
reasonable to think they wouldve chosen to do so.
That being the case, the cost of repairing the damage to the drain itself should also
reasonably be met by RSA subject to proof of the cost associated with carrying out the
repair being provided. Interest should be paid in respect of this cost too in the same way
as set out above.I accept that trace and access cover is often not offered as standard to most policies
so I make no award in respect of the costs incurred by Mr and Mrs K in locating the
leak.
compensation
Mr and Mrs K have been put to some inconvenience by RSAs decision to unfairly decline
their claim. They had to borrow money for the repairs to their home and arrange them all
themselves. All insurance claims attract a certain degree of inconvenience; thats to be
expected. But where an insurer causes additional stress or upset then this service can
require it to compensate consumers. Taking the circumstances of this complaint into
account I think that RSA should pay Mr and Mrs K compensation of £350 for the additional
trouble and upset it caused them.
Mr and Mrs K responded to my provisional decision to say they were happy with it and had 
nothing further to add. 
RSA responded to say it didnt accept my provisional decision. It made the following points:
It provided two online articles to show that ammonia and fluoride can naturally occur in 
groundwater. 
The fluoride levels found in the ground samples taken were of a higher concentration 
than the maximum permissible limit in drinking water indicating a source other than 
mains water. There was no detergent identified in the samples. 
A CCTV survey of the drains wouldnt have identified anything of concern  no joints are 
broken. Most drains suffer from minor leaks and the removal of the concrete slab to 
expose the drain will have inevitably caused some disturbance (to the drain) 
compromising its tightness and making the slight seepage inevitable.
The moisture contents of the soils arent that different from the moisture contents taken 
back in 1995 when the previous owner had the slab checked. 
There was clearly a reason why the previous owner had the slab checked in 1995. 
Mr and Mrs K told RSA that neighbours had experienced similar problems in the past.
Its RSAs view that the damage is common mode failure associated with design or 
workmanship rather than an insured peril (but RSA does not seek to rely on the defective 
design policy exclusion).
At the time the house was constructed the risk of sulphate bearing fill to concrete slabs 
was known as set out in the government report attached to RSAs response.
The report says the amount of water needed for the sulphate to react with the concrete is 
modest  saturation isnt needed and a common source is groundwater. 
Given the government report, the modest widespread moisture content noted and the 
issues the neighbours have had, it is RSAs view that on the balance of probabilities the 
damage was caused by natural groundwater rather than a leak from the drains. 
The damage, so caused, has taken decades to manifest itself. This is because the 
sulphate content is modest, the damage is minor and has gone un-noticed for years.
If the leak from the drain was the cause of the attack the damage would be localised to 
the area around it rather than being widespread necessitating whole slab replacement.
RSAs in-house building expert has recently reviewed the claim and its his view that the 
slab had a high moisture content due to the lack of a DPC rather than a leaking drain.
If the leaking pipe had caused dampness to the sulphate fill then the damage would be 
covered under the policy. But it doesnt think it was  it rather believes that the evidence points to a more natural cause and one that has blighted the whole estate and is 
common to the area. It thinks the claim isnt covered. 
The policy provides (add-on) cover for accidental breakage to drains. As there is no 
evidence the drains were broken, even had Mr and Mrs K selected the add-on cover the 
claim wouldnt have been accepted. Seeping joints arent unusual and a CCTV survey 
wouldve found no defects even had one been undertaken. 
Given the gradual nature of the sulphate attack there is no probability the damage 
occurred during the one-year RSA insured Mr and Mrs Ks house. 
The complaint was returned to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant see from the British Geographical Survey, or the WHO document setting out the 
guidelines for drinking water quality, that RSA has sent me show that the area in which Mr 
and Mrs Ks house is located is one where groundwater with a high-fluoride and ammonia 
content is to be found. There is no evidence that either were present as a result of being 
found in groundwater beneath Mr and Mrs Ks home or that the presence of fluoride or 
ammonia was anything other than the result of a leaking pipe. It is my understanding that 
neither are naturally present within groundwater in the location of Mr and Mrs Ks home.  
Mr and Mrs Ks engineer said the presence of ammonias and fluoride within the sample 
areas suggested an internal leaking pipe such as a fresh water supply or bathroom waste 
pipe. RSA has not put forward any new, previously unseen evidence specific to the site of Mr 
and Mrs Ks home. I note it thinks the level of fluoride indicates a source other than mains 
water but its not provided any further technical evidence in support of its view that would 
allow me to reasonably ignore the evidence from its own expert along with that of Mr and 
Mrs Ks engineer. 
A CCTV survey of the drains couldve identified cracking either to the pipes or the joints. 
There is no evidence the removal of the slab caused the damage seen in the video of the 
exposed drain. Prior to the drain being exposed both experts suggested the elevated 
moisture levels and presence of ammonia and fluorides suggested a leaking underground 
drain. 
It is not clear from the 1995 test where on the property the previous owner had the fill 
sample taken from for the test to be carried out. No mention of bore holes being dug inside 
the property is made. Its possible the fill sample was taken from around the outside of the 
property. So, I cant draw any reasonable conclusion from comparing the moisture content 
recorded on that test (7.9%) to that recorded from the samples taken from the three bore 
holes inside the property by Mr and Mrs Ks expert (7.9%, 9.5% and 11%) because I cant 
know if I am comparing like with like. 
What I can see though is that the engineer in 1995 reported the following to the then owner 
of the property: the material is identified primarily as red shale and of a type not liable to 
expansion, however in the unlikely event that any expansion should occur it would 
probably be slight and not of structural concern. [my emphasis]. And the lab reported: 
There should be little risk of sulphate attack on concrete from using this material. The shale 
present in the fill is not Cleveland shale and in our opinion is not of a type liable to 
expansion. The fill as a whole is unlikely to expand and should prove stable.So, there is evidence the fill was tested and reported as unlikely to expand in 1995. Yet by 
2019 expand it had, due, the experts agree, to the elevated moisture content from an 
unnatural source. The fill type had not changed between 1995 and 2019 so there was no 
reason I can see bar that put forward by the experts (the leaking drain) to cause the stability 
of the house to be affected.  
That Mr and Mrs K reported neighbours may have had similar problems in the past or that 
the previous owner had a reason to check dont reasonably allow me to ignore the expert 
evidence before me. 
Whilst I note that its RSAs view that the damage is common mode failure associated with 
design or workmanship rather than an insured peril, the evidence Ive referred to suggests 
otherwise. And RSA hasnt provided any expert evidence to support this opinion such that 
would reasonably allow me to overlook the existing evidence.
I accept that the risk of sulphate bearing fill to concrete slabs was likely known around the 
time Mr and Mrs Ks home was built. I also accept saturation of the fill isnt needed for a 
sulphate attack to occur. But theres no evidence that the damage was the result of natural 
groundwater rather than the seepage from the leaking drain. 
There is no evidence that the damage has taken decades to manifest itself. The previous 
owner had an engineer look at the site and no damage was reported. That was 25 years 
ago. As stated above, the engineer reported the fill was not of a type liable to expansion and, 
even if it did, it would cause no structural concern. 
I dont know how many joints in the drain were seeping. I also dont know the layout of Mr 
and Mrs Ks house and, as such, how close the bore holes were to each other. So, I cant 
agree with RSA that leak mustve been localised and that it wasnt necessary to replace the 
whole slab. Id need RSA to provide evidence to that effect if I were to make a finding on this 
point. And I cant ignore that its own expert said that if a defect was identified in the drains 
then allowance would need to be made for excavating and replacing the whole footprint of 
the house. 
I note the view of RSAs in-house building expert but, for the reasons Ive already given, it 
hasnt led me to change my mind about the cause of damage to Mr and Mrs Ks home. 
Im satisfied that it was leaking pipe that caused dampness to the sulphate fill and that, 
consequently, the claim is covered.  
Drains are typically hidden, buried under a house or external ground. RSA is well aware of 
this services approach to complaints about declined claims for accidental damage to 
underground drains. As the drains are obscured from the policyholders view such that any 
damage thats occurred cannot be seen then there is a presumption that the insurer must 
pay the claim unless it can evidence that the damage wasnt accidental in nature. Ive seen 
no such evidence here. So, my provisional findings in relation to RSAs liability for repairing 
the damaged drain remain unchanged. 
RSA would have to provide evidence that the sulphate attack hadnt occurred whilst it was 
on risk for me to find it wasnt liable for this claim. No such evidence has been provided.
Putting things right
So, for the reasons I gave provisionally along with those given here in this, my final, decision 
I think this complaint should be upheld. I think that RSA unfairly and unreasonably declined 
Mr and Mrs Ks claim for damage caused by an escape of water. RSA must pay to Mr and 
Mrs K the redress I set out in my provisional decision. My final decision
My final decision is that I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to do the following: 
Reimburse the cost of repairs to, and reinstatement of, the damage to Mr and Mrs Ks 
home caused by the escape of water;
Reimburse Mr and Mrs K the cost they incurred in repairing the damaged drain;
Interest should be paid on all the amounts Mr and Mrs K so incurred (for the repairs, the 
reinstatement and the damaged drain) as set out and explained in my provisional 
decision;
If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs K how much 
its taken off. It should also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay Mr and Mrs K compensation of £350 for the trouble and upset they were caused by 
the unfair decision to decline their claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman