DRN-1676923
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Northern Bank Limited mis-sold them two payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policies in 1996.
What happened
In March 1996 Mr and Mrs M took out a loan with Northern Bank (Loan One). They borrowed 
£7,000 which was to be repaid over 48 months. At the same time they were sold a PPI 
policy. The premium for the PPI was £1,157 which was added to the main loan meaning they 
borrowed £8,157. The PPI covered Mr M only against not being able to work due to an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. In the event of an unemployment claim the policy could 
have paid a monthly benefit equivalent to the loan repayment for up to 12 months. In the 
event of a sickness or accident claim the monthly benefit would be paid until Mr M returned 
to work or the loan was repaid. The loan was repaid early in November 1999.
In August 1996 Mr and Mrs M took out a further loan (Loan Two). The full details of this loan 
are unclear but the monthly repayment was around £71.00 per month. Mr and Mrs M were 
again sold a PPI to protect the loan against Mr M not being able to work due to an accident, 
sickness or unemployment. This time the PPI policy was funded by monthly premiums of 
£12.82. This loan was also repaid in November 1999.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Northern Bank about the way the policies were sold to them. 
Unhappy with Northern Banks response they asked this service to step in.
An adjudicator didnt think the PPI sold with Loan One was mis-sold. But the adjudicator 
upheld Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the sale of the PPI with Loan Two.
Both Mr and Mrs M and Northern Bank have disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Loan One
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the sale of PPI with Loan One. Ill 
explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement for Loan One. I can see it set out the details for the 
main loan and the PPI premium separately. The agreement shows the total cost of the PPI 
premium both with and without interest. And it shows the monthly cost of the PPI. So I am 
satisfied it was shown as a separate product.I can also see there are two boxes which Mr and Mrs M could select. One box was to accept 
the PPI and the other to decline it. I can see Mr M has signed in the box accepting the PPI, 
while the box to decline the PPI is blank. So I think the PPI was presented as optional and 
Mr and Mrs M chose to add it to their loan.
I am aware Mr M has said he was previously told when applying for an earlier loan that he 
was told he had to take insurance to get the loan. But looking at the credit agreement for 
Loan One I cant see anything to suggest the loan was conditional on taking the PPI.
Taking into account everything Ive seen I think its most likely Northern Bank made it clear 
Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to buy it - although I can 
understand why they might not recall this after so many years.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. That means it had to make sure it 
was right for them. And from what Ive seen it looks like it was.
I can see Mr M was eligible for the policy. It didnt cover some things. But it doesnt look as if 
these wouldve affected Mr M. For example, he didnt have any medical conditions that 
wouldnt be covered.
Mr M wouldve received sick pay from his employer if he became unwell. But the PPI sold to 
him would have paid out on top of any sick pay, and potentially for longer. The policy would 
also pay out if Mr M lost his job, meaning he could use any redundancy pay or savings for 
other living costs. So, I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve found the policy useful if things went 
wrong.
The PPI policy was paid for with a single premium upfront which was added to the loan.
I note that if Mr and Mrs M cleared the loan early, they wouldnt have got a proportionate 
rebate so they may have lost out. But Ive not seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs M 
intended to repay the loan early or had a history of doing so in 1996. So, I dont think the 
early cancellation terms made the policy unsuitable for them.
Northern Bank should also have given Mr and Mrs M clear information about the policy so 
they could decide whether to buy it. Its possible Northern Bank didnt give them all the 
information it shouldve done. But I think they agreed to buy the policy and were interested in 
this type of cover. And the policy appears to have been right for them. And the cost of the 
policy seems to have been made clear. Because of this I dont think any clearer information 
wouldve put Mr and Mrs M off taking it out. So, I dont think they have lost out because of 
anything Northern Bank mightve done wrong.
In summary, I think it most likely Northern Bank made Mr and Mrs M aware that the PPI 
policy sold to them in March 1996 was optional. And I think they chose to buy it. I think the 
policy was right for them and would have been useful if Mr M couldnt work or lost his job. 
And even if Northern Bank had given Mr and Mrs M all the clear information it should have, I 
still think they would have taken out the PPI policy.
Loan Two
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the sale of PPI with Loan Two. Ill 
explain why.
I dont think Northern Bank gave Mr and Mrs M clear enough information about the policy, 
particularly about the PPIs cost and benefit.Northern Bank says that its normal sales process at the time was for its adviser to tell Mr and 
Mrs M the policy premium before they agreed to buy the policy. It has shown us some 
example quotations but these are not from around August 1996 so I cant attach much 
weight to them. So I cant safely say its more likely this process wouldve been followed in 
this case.
Northern Bank has also shown us a copy of a Credit Agreement from October 1996. I can 
see it presents the consumer with the option to decline or accept PPI. But unlike the credit 
agreement for Loan One I cant see anywhere on the agreement where the monthly cost of 
the policy would have been displayed.
After considering everything provided by Northern Bank, Im not satisfied that I can safely 
say it gave Mr and Mrs M clear enough information about the cost of the PPI.
Ive taken into account what Northern Bank has said about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, 
and the potential benefits of the policy. And Ive also taken into account that Mr M enjoyed 
good sick pay benefits through his employer. Weighing everything up, Im not convinced, 
given how much the policy sold with Loan Two cost compared with the potential monthly 
benefit, that Mr and Mrs M would have thought the policy good value for money. So I dont 
think they would have chosen to take out the policy if clearer information had been given.
Putting things right
For the PPI policy sold in August 1996 only Northern Bank should put Mr and Mrs M in the 
position they would be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. So Northern Bank should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they gets it back. The rate 
of interest is and 8% a year .
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Northern Bank can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Northern Bank to take off tax from this interest. Northern 
Bank must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the sale of the PPI policy in March 1996.
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the sale of the PPI policy in August 1996. I direct 
Northern Bank Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M compensation as set out in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman