DRN-1663195
 
The complaint
Mr Ss unhappy Domestic and General Insurance Plc (D&G) havent paid his claim on his TV 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S says he noticed his TV starting to suffer what he called abnormal green patches on the 
screen with no apparent shape. He says he called out D&G to have a look at it, and their 
engineer diagnosed it as screen burn  which D&G said wasnt covered under the terms of 
the policy.
Mr S says he asked for the terms of the policy and was told theres a specific exclusion for 
repairs required when the product is functioning within the manufacturers tolerance  for 
example number of pixel failures. Mr H says the engineers report says this isnt a case of it 
being within the manufacturers tolerances, it just says screen burn, so his claim should be 
met.
D&G say they understand Mr S disagrees with their engineers assessment, but because its 
been diagnosed as a screen burn thats not covered under the terms of the policy. But they 
also say if Mr S wishes to get a second opinion, and the fault is found to be covered under 
the policy, then D&G would repay him the cost of that second assessment.
Unhappy with this Mr S asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so but said 
D&G had turned down the claim fairly. Mr S didnt agree and said he wanted to arrange an 
engineers report. He did this, but the engineer wasnt a specialist in his TV, and the only 
people in his area who were specialists are the people who did the original assessment for 
D&G. So, ultimately, he wasnt able to get a second opinion, and because of this, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Itll help to explain that were not experts in issues such as the kind of faults TVs have 
developed, so will rely on the engineers report unless theres a reason not to.
Ive not seen any reason to doubt the report the engineer gave, and even Mr Ss own 
specialists said the engineers company were the right people to talk to. So, I dont think 
theres any concerns with the report itself.
So, in accepting then the report is accurate, and screen burn is the correct diagnosis I need 
to see if this is covered under the terms of the policy Mr S took out.
The terms say if the TV suffers a mechanical or electrical breakdown then theyll repair it, 
arrange a replacement or pay the cost of a replacement. But theres a list of exclusions and 
these say, amongst other things:
Repairs required where the product is functioning within manufacturers tolerances 
(for example, number of pixel failures)
D&G have referred to the operating manual of Mr Ss type of TV, which says pixel failure 
could happen. Mr S says the engineers report doesnt say pixel failure happened though, he 
just says it was screen burn. But screen burn is the result of pixel failure. Given that the 
manufacturer says this is possible, I dont think D&G have acted unfairly in turning down the 
claim  as Im satisfied the screen burn is in line with the manufacturers tolerances  and 
under the term of the policy this is excluded.
I do think D&G could have explained this better to Mr S when speaking to him about the 
reasons for turning down his claim. But as Im satisfied its not covered under the terms of 
the policy, I wont be telling D&G to do anything further.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020. 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman