DRN-2184876
The complaint
Mrs S says she never asked Allay Claims Ltd to act for her in a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) claim. And the signature they had wasnt hers.
What happened
In April 2020, Mrs S was told by her lender that she had a successful PPI claim, and the 
amount of compensation shed receive. A few days later Mrs S was asked by Allay to pay 
their fee for her successful claim. Mrs S said shes never asked Allay to act on her behalf in 
making a PPI claim. And complained to them.
Allay said Mrs S made an online application in March 2019 for them to carry out a free PPI 
check with her lenders. They said shed also signed a letter of authority (LoA) authorising 
them to make a PPI claim for her, should any PPI be found. In June 2019 Allay said they told 
Mrs S that PPI had been found. They said Mrs S completed a PPI questionnaire (PPIQ) 
which they took as her instruction to pursue her claim which they submitted in September 
2019.
Mrs S wasnt happy with Allays response and referred her complaint to us. She said the 
signature used wasnt hers and said the application was fraudulent and shed reported the 
matter to the police. Although she didnt remember making a PPI claim direct to her lender 
she said it was possible she had.
Allay said the IP address used to make the application was in her home location, and the 
signature on the application was made digitally so some variance would happen. And theyd 
kept Mrs S updated about her claim and she hadnt questioned their involvement. And in 
April 2020, after Mrs S lender told Allay her claim was successful they invoiced Mrs S for 
their success fee. They said Mrs S hadnt cancelled the agreement shed made with them 
within the 14-day cooling off period. And as her claim was successful, Allay said their fee 
was due. 
Our investigator said Allay had acted fairly and reasonably and in line with their terms and 
conditions. He said Mrs S had authorised them to act on her behalf and hadnt cancelled the 
agreement. He said Allay could charge their success fee.
Mrs S didnt agree and reiterated that the application was fraudulent. She asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this  complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt our role to consider whether a signature is genuine or not, that would be for a criminal 
court to decide, where the level of proof needed is beyond reasonable doubt. Were an 
informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This means were 
impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides story 
because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information were given. 
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision 
on what I think most likely happened  the balance of probability.
I can understand Mrs Ss frustration as she is adamant, she hasnt asked Allay to act for her 
in making a PPI claim with her lender. So, Ive considered whether Mrs S authorised Allay to 
act for her in submitting a PPI claim. And if she did, whether she let them know she no 
longer wanted them to work for her. And to see whether Allay has acted fairly and 
reasonably in their actions with Mrs S.
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in March 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mrs S has given this 
service. The application also needed details of Mrs Ss lenders, and these details were also 
provided. A LoA would have been generated by the application, populated with the supplied 
information. And to be submitted a signature had to be added and this is what happened. I 
know Mrs S thinks the application wasnt done by her. But I think the supplied information is 
specific to her, and the application would have been made for her benefit to seek redress for 
a mis-sold PPI policy.  So, on balance I think it would have been Mrs S who completed and 
submitted the on-line application. 
Allays terms and conditions were also available to see. And in submitting the LoA Mrs S had 
agreed to them. Allays terms and conditions say:
We will carry out a free PPI check. We will notify you once PPI has been identified and 
submit your complaint to the lender following your instruction. Your instruction can be given 
by completing the postal Claim Questionnaire, submitting the Claim Questionnaire online or 
over the telephone with Allay. For Plevin (excessive commissions) claim(s), your signed and 
dated Letter of Authority is your instruction to submit the claim. If the claim is successful, our
normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will apply.
I can see Mrs S lender told Allay in June 2019 that she had a PPI policy for a loan she took 
out in 1998. And Allay notified Mrs S about this and asked her for further information so that 
they could submit her complaint. Allay sent several follow up messages by email and text 
asking Mrs S to complete the additional documentation. And Allay has shown a PPIQ was 
completed in September 2019 and they took this as Mrs S instruction to submit her claim to 
her lender. Again, the information on the PPIQ is specific to Mrs S and includes her 
employment details, so Ive no reason to doubt the information wasnt supplied by her.
In November 2019 Mrs S lender told Allay theyd received the submitted complaint and Allay 
let Mrs S know this had happened. Allay has also shown they sent, in January 2020, 
updates about the status of the claim. 
Allays terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14-day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. To cancel your contract with us, either call Customer 
Services on 0191 462 0000, email your cancellation request to cancellations@allay.co.uk, 
download a Cancellation Form from our website www.allay.co.uk or write to us at The 
Processing Centre, Trafalgar Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 2LA.
After Allay submitted the claim I can see they notified Mrs S on18 November 2019 when it 
was acknowledged by her lender that theyd received her claim. If I calculate the 14-day 
cooling off period from this date when it would have been clear to Mrs S that Allay had submitted her claim, shed have had until 2 December 2019 to cancel her agreement with 
Allay. And if Mrs S was certain she hadnt asked Allay to work for her, she could have taken 
any of the opportunities from June 2019 when Allay first told her PPI had been found to ask 
about their involvement. And to cancel it at no charge. Mrs S has said she shredded any 
contact she had from Allay, and she didnt act on them, but I cant hold Allay responsible for 
this. And I dont think it was enough by Mrs S not engaging with Allay to consider this as her 
cancelling her agreement with them. I cant see any evidence that despite opportunities for 
Mrs S to speak to or get in touch with Allay, it wasnt until after her claim was successful that 
she questioned Allays involvement. 
In April 2020, Mrs Ss lender told her that her claim for the mis-selling of a PPI policy was 
successful. And I can see they also told Allay. I think this shows they saw Allay as Mrs S 
representative. And I havent seen any evidence that Mrs S directly asked her lender to 
investigate a mis-sold PPI policy for her. And Mrs S lender wouldnt have looked at the mis-
selling complaint without a claim being made before the August 2019 deadline for making 
such claims. So, Im satisfied Mrs S authorised Allay to act on her behalf.
The agreement Mrs S had with Allay was based on a No Win No Fee. This means Allay 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually 
undertook. Any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. Where a claim 
was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. 
This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Mrs Ss claim was successful, 
and Allays fees were charged in line with what Mrs S agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats 
in place for PPI claims.
I know Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision but having looked at the evidence 
provided I think Allay had been authorised to act on her behalf to pursue her claim for mis-
sold PPI.  And she didnt cancel her agreement with them within the 14-day cooling off 
period. So, I think Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in what they have done, and they 
can charge their success fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman