DRN-2465110
The complaint
Mr T and Ms T complain that Santander UK Plc didnt treat them fairly when they wanted to 
port their mortgage. They ask that it refunds the early repayment charge (ERC) and pays 
compensation. 
What happened
Mr T and Ms T took out a mortgage with Santander in 2007. They took out a five-year fixed 
interest rate product in 2016. This included an ERC which was payable if the mortgage was 
repaid during the product term. The ERC could be waived or refunded if the product was 
ported to a new mortgage.
Mr T and Ms T sold their property in mid-2019 and repaid the mortgage. They paid the ERC. 
They say Santander misled them and didnt give them information about porting. Santander 
declined their application for a new mortgage. This meant their purchase fell through leaving 
them without a home. They then had to apply to a different lender and their ERC wasnt 
refunded. 
Our investigator said Santander had given Mr T and Ms T information about the ERC and 
porting when they took out the five-year product, including that theyd have to meet lending 
criteria, and there was no guarantee theyd be able to port the product. The investigator said 
Santander didnt offer a new mortgage due to problems with income information provided by 
Mr T and Ms T. The investigator said Santander hadnt done anything wrong and she didnt 
think it would be fair to require it to refund the ERC. 
Mr T and Ms T didnt agree. Mr T said Santander refused to send information about porting 
when he asked for it. He said it wasnt good enough that it didnt have literature it could send 
with information about porting. Mr T said they werent sent information about the product 
they took out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Santander give Mr T and Ms T information about the ERC and porting in 2016?
Mr T contacted Santander in May 2016 about taking out a new product. He told Santander 
they hadnt taken out a new product as they wanted to sell their property, but they hadnt had 
any offers. He wanted to know what penalties theyd pay if they took out a new product and 
then sold the property, so he could consider this against the higher monthly payments they 
were making. Santander said theyd pay a product fee and an ERC of about 3 to 5% when 
they sold. Santander said products could be ported, but there was no guarantee. If they 
didnt meet lending criteria the ERC could be a large amount. Santander gave Mr T the 
product fees, interest rates, ERCs and monthly payments for different products, for two, 
three, five and seven years. 
Mr T called again in August 2016. Santander said it couldnt offer a new product on his 
existing mortgage if he was selling his house. Mr T said at the moment they werent moving 
and he wanted to go ahead with a new product to secure the interest rate. Santander gave 
information about different products and Mr T wanted the five-year product. The adviser told 
Mr T the product included an ERC of 5%. It said the product could be ported to a new 
property if they met conditions in the Mortgage Conditions Booklet and pass an affordability 
assessment and other criteria.
Santander sent a letter to Mr T and Ms T in August 2016 enclosing: 
the conversion offer conditions for the product theyd chosen (the conversion offer);
its mortgage conditions booklet;
its terms of business.
The conversion offer said an ERC would be payable if the mortgage was repaid before late 
2021. It set out the ERC as a percentage of the amount repaid, the maximum amount 
payable and cash examples at certain dates. It goes on to say:
What happens if you move house?
If you move house you may be able to transfer this mortgage to another property as 
long as you meet the conditions set out in the mortgage conditions booklet under 
Transferring your loan to a new mortgage. You must also meet our lending criteria 
and pass our affordability assessment at that time.
I think Santander gave clear information to Mr T and Mrs T about the ERC and that porting 
was subject to meeting criteria. The letter said Mr T and Ms T could cancel the product 
conversion within 14 days if theyd changed their minds about the product. 
Ive thought about whether Santander should have allowed Mr T and Ms T to take out a 
product with an ERC, given that Mr T had said they wanted to move. But Santander asked 
Mr T about this, and Mr T was clear that they werent moving at that time and he wanted to 
secure a fixed rate. In fact, nearly three years passed before Mr T and Ms T sold their 
property. Santander also offered two and three-year products with lower ERCs, and it was 
Mr T that wanted to secure a rate for five years. I dont think it was unfair for Santander to 
allow Mr T and Ms T to take out the product they wanted.
Santander also sent information to Mr T and Ms T with their annual statements. This had a 
paragraph headed Looking to move home? which said they would take their current deal to 
a new property. It went on to say A new mortgage on a different property will be subject to 
status and our lending criteria at the time.
Did Santander mislead Mr T and Ms T about what porting involves?
Mr T and Ms T requested a redemption statement in May 2019, and Mr T also asked 
Santander for information about porting. They repaid the mortgage in mid-July 2019. Mr T 
called after the mortgage was repaid to say they wanted to transfer the mortgage to a new 
property. 
Ive listened carefully to the call in May 2019. Santander gave Mr T information about 
porting, including that he could port if he completed on a mortgage within 90 days of 
repaying his existing mortgage, and that he could get a refund of all the ERC if his new 
mortgage was the same amount, or a refund of part if the amount was less. 
Mr T wanted Santander to send something that explained in writing what porting is. 
Santander said it didnt have anything to send, but Mr T could look at its website. It said in simple terms porting is moving a current deal to a new property, and no ERC would apply if 
its for the same amount of borrowing. 
I think, unfortunately, Mr T misunderstood how porting works. I think he expected to move 
the mortgage to another property without the need for an application or approval process. I 
dont think though that Santander misled him about this. The information it gave to Mr T and 
Ms T (when they took out the five-year product in 2016 and when they asked about porting 
in 2019) made it clear theyd need to meet lending criteria and pass an affordability 
assessment. I think it would be reasonable for them to expect this would involve some sort of 
process, and that Santander would ask them for information as part of this process.
Did Santander deal with Mr T and Ms Ts porting application fairly?
Mr T and Ms T applied for a new mortgage. The evidence they provided for their income 
didnt meet Santanders criteria as it wasnt provided by an accountant with the right 
qualification. They provided further evidence that did meet Santanders criteria, but this didnt 
support the level of income theyd declared or that was needed for the amount they wanted 
to borrow. 
Mr T says another lender did offer the loan they wanted. However, each lender has its own 
criteria and this doesnt mean Santander did anything wrong when assessing Mr T and 
Ms Ts application. Santander is entitled to have criteria about what evidence it accepts, and 
I dont think it applied its criteria unfairly here.
I think Santander was willing to allow Mr T and Ms T to port, but they didnt meet its criteria 
for the amount they wanted to borrow. Santander told Mr T and Ms T this less than a month 
after theyd applied and I dont think there were any unnecessary delays in it assessing their 
application. Mr T and Ms T applied elsewhere, as they were entitled to do, rather than re-
apply to Santander for a lower amount.
Im sorry that Mr T and Ms T werent able to port their mortgage, and that their property 
purchase fell through. But I dont think Santander misled Mr T and Ms T about the porting 
process, or treated them unfairly. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to refund 
the ERC or pay compensation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman