DRN-4394350
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr Z complain that poor mortgage advice from Connells Limited resulted in them 
missing out on lower interest rate products. They ask for compensation for their additional 
interest costs.
What happened
Mrs G and Mr Z took mortgage advice from Connells in early September 2022. Connells 
made an application on their behalf and the lender issued a mortgage offer. Mrs G and 
Mr Zs purchase fell through. Connells said theyd be able to change the property and keep 
the rate in the mortgage offer.
Mrs G and Mr Z found another property in early October 2022. The lender didnt allow them 
to keep the original rate. By then rates had increased. Mrs G and Mr Z say they will pay over 
£14,000 more over the product term as a result.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties explaining why I thought the £500 compensation 
offered by Connells for the upset caused when it gave Mrs G and Mr Z incorrect information 
was fair. I also set out why I didnt intend to order Connells to pay compensation for Mrs G 
and Mr Z having a higher interest rate. My provisional decision was substantially as set out 
below.
Both Mrs G and Mr Z and Connells agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mrs G and Mr Z took mortgage advice from Connells. They were issued with a decision in 
principle on 1 September 2022. The sale and purchase chain wasnt complete. Connells said 
it told Mrs G and Mr Z the only way to secure the rate was to submit an application. So they 
decided to submit an application, despite potential issues with the sale and purchase chain.
Connells submitted an application on behalf of Mrs G and Mr Z and they received a 
mortgage offer on 9 September 2022. This had a five-year fixed rate of 3.45%. Had this 
mortgage completed Mrs G and Mr Z would have had the benefit of this interest rate.
Unfortunately, Mrs G and Mr Zs purchase fell through. Connells told them (incorrectly) 
theyd be able to update the offer with the new property and keep the rate in the mortgage 
offer.
Mrs G and Mr Z had an offer accepted on another property in October 2022. Connells told 
the estate agent they had an offer in place. However, the lender didnt allow Mrs G and Mr Z 
to keep the interest rate product. It said theyd have to choose a new product rate. Interest 
rates had increased.
Connells recommended applying to a different lender which offered a lower interest rate than 
was then available from the first lender. This lender offered a mortgage to Mrs G and Mr Z. 
But the interest rate was higher than the first mortgage offer.
Connells accepts it made an error when it told Mrs G and Mr Z theyd be able to keep the 
rate in the mortgage offer despite changing properties. The broker says he cant remember if 
he first told Mrs G this when the property purchase fell through or when he advised them in 
early September 2022. Connells offered £500 for the disappointment caused.
Mrs G and Mr Z ask that Connells pays compensation for them missing out on the lower 
interest rate offered by the first lender. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require this, for 
the following reasons.
Mrs G and Mr Z couldnt transfer their first mortgage offer and rate to another property. 
This wasnt because of an error by Connells. The lender didnt allow the rate to be 
transferred and this would have been the case regardless of whether Connells made an 
error.
Mrs G and Mr Z could only secure a rate with that lender by submitting a new mortgage 
application. They couldnt do this until they found a property to buy.
Even if Connells had given Mrs G and Mr Z correct information it seems unlikely theyd 
have found a property sooner. Mrs G told Connells there were hardly any options to buy. 
The purchase of the second property they found also fell through. By the time they found 
the third property and were ready to submit a new application, the lenders products had 
changed.
Mrs G says Connells should have advised them at the outset to choose a lender that allowed 
them to reserve the rate or move the application to another property. Mrs G said she spoke 
to Connells about 10 times from August to October 2022 and was clear that she wanted a 
mortgage that could be transferred to another property. She says she was assured that was 
the case. These calls arent recorded. But what Mrs G says is supported by her emails. 
Connells accepts it gave her incorrect information at some point in September 2022.
Theres no dispute that Connells gave Mrs G and Mr Z incorrect information. When 
considering whether this caused Mrs G and Mr Z financial loss, Ive taken the following into 
account.
Theres no doubt that Mrs G and Mr Z wanted to secure an interest rate  thats why the 
application was submitted in early September 2022 despite concerns about the property 
chain. But theres a difference between securing a rate for the purchase that Mrs G and 
Mr Z hoped would go ahead and securing a rate that could be transferred to any 
property.
As I said above, Mrs G and Mr Z wouldnt have been able to retain the interest rate 
offered by the first lender regardless of any error by Connells.
Connells did a fact find with Mrs G and Mr Z. This said they wanted a fixed interest rate 
for five years. And they wanted a product with the lowest total amount payable over the 
product term. Connells records say it recommended the cheapest available product.The fact find doesnt say Mrs G and Mr Z wanted to reserve an interest rate that could be 
transferred to a different property, or that they only wanted to apply to lenders that 
allowed this. Not all lenders allow a change of the security property without a new 
application being submitted with a new product. So this would likely have restricted the 
lenders that Mrs G and Mr Z could apply to.
Connells assumed the first lender would allow Mrs G and Mr Z to retain the interest rate 
product if their purchase fell through. If Mrs G and Mr Z told Connells at the outset this 
was important to them, it would be reasonable to expect it to check this. Equally, Id 
expect this to be reflected in the fact find and there to have been some discussion about 
whether this was a higher priority than securing a lower cost product.
I dont have information as to which lenders (if any) were allowing customers to reserve 
an interest rate that could be transferred to a different property in September 2022. I 
dont have information about the interest rates these lenders were offering. I dont know if 
Mrs G and Mr Z would have met the relevant lending criteria.
To require Connells to pay compensation on the basis Mrs G and Mr Z missed out on an 
interest rate product that could be reserved or transferred, Id need evidence that this was 
available to them and at a rate that was better than the rate they took out. Id need to find 
that theyd have chosen such a product in early September 2022 even if it had a higher cost 
than the product they first applied for.
I do appreciate Mrs G and Mr Zs frustration here. But at the moment I dont have sufficient 
evidence theyd have been able to take out a better interest rate if Connells hadnt made an 
error.
Connells incorrectly told Mrs G and Mr Z theyd be able to change property and keep the 
rate in the first mortgage offer. They were upset when they found out this wasnt possible 
and I think its right that Connells offered compensation for the disappointment this caused. 
In the circumstances, I think the £500 it offered is fair and reasonable compensation for this 
upset and disappointment.
My final decision
My decision is that Connells Limited should pay £500 to Mrs G and Mr Z as it offered to do 
(unless of course it has already made the payment).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman