DRN-1549145
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Retail Money Market Ltd trading as RateSetter didn't pay him a £100 
bonus he believes he was entitled to receive.
What happened
Mr B opened an account with Retail Money Market (RMM) in December 2017.
At that time, they were offering a £100 bonus to account holders who invested a minimum of 
£1,000 within eight weeks of their account's creation and kept those funds invested for at 
least a year.
Mr B called RMM about the incentive in September 2018. He was told he'd be eligible for the 
£100 bonus if he kept his funds invested for the rest of the first year of his account (that is, 
until December 2018).
When he later asked about payment of the £100 bonus, in June 2019, he was told he didn't 
qualify because his account wasn't funded within the first eight weeks.
Mr B complained to RMM. They upheld the complaint and admitted the information provided 
to Mr B when he called them in September 2018 was wrong.
They said they'd fed back to the relevant team to prevent any recurrence. And they 
paid £100 into Mr B's account.
Mr B wasn't happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought the £100 RMM had given Mr B was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Mr B disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr B first complained to us, he said RMM hadn't responded ot his complaint. We've 
since seen records to show RMM credited Mr B's account with £100 in June 2019 after 
they'd considered his complaint. Mr B immediately withdrew that money from his account. 
And we've seen copies of an email sent to Mr B's email address which explains 
RMM's findings.
Our approach is first to find out whether a business have made an error. If so, we ask them 
to put the complainant back in the position they would have been in had the error not been 
made. And we also consider whether the complainant should be paid compensation for any 
trouble and upset they've suffered.RMM have admitted they gave incorrect information to Mr B during the phone call in 
September 2018. So, they have made an error.
Mr B was never going to be entitled to the £100 bonus. So, when I look at putting him back 
in the position he would have been in, I'm not going to conclude he should have been £100 
better off. He's suffered no financial loss as a result of RMM's error. There is no loss for 
RMM to reverse.
However, Mr B is entitled to some compensation for trouble and upset, in my opinion. He 
was given inaccurate information. This may have raised expectations which were then 
disappointed when it was made clear later that he didn't qualify for the bonus.
I'm satisfied £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for that degree of trouble and upset.
Mr M also told us that RMM hadn't responded to his complaint and hadn't referred him to us 
if he remained unhappy, as they are required to do. And he wanted this to be taken into 
account when we were considering his complaint and any compensation for his trouble and 
upset.
In fact, RMM did respond. Their response was sent to the right address. And it contained 
referral right to us. And Mr B must have known they'd responded because he withdrew the 
£100 they paid him from his account the same day it went in.
So, I'm not going to conclude RMM did anything wrong in this respect. And I'm not going to 
ask them to increase the compensation already paid to Mr B.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr B's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman