DRN-3420089
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr H and Mrs Cs request for a mortgage redemption statement from 
TSB Bank plc (TSB) in September 2021.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs C held a five-year fixed rate mortgage with TSB which was due to expire at 
the end of October 2021. Before their fixed rate converted to a standard variable rate, Mr H 
and Mrs C applied for a mortgage with a different lender.
TSB received a request for a redemption statement from Mr H and Mrs Cs solicitor. At the 
time, it was treated as an early redemption request, so a £300 early repayment charge was 
applied to the final figure and the statement did not include the final fixed rate payment 
Mr H and Mrs C were due to pay at the end of October. 
Mr H and Mrs C complained that they intended to make the final fixed rate payment and so 
they wanted a statement to reflect that. They also said the early repayment charge should 
not apply.
TSB investigated Mr H and Mrs Cs complaint and a statement was produced with the 
correct figures two days after the fixed rate expired. TSB said that their system wouldnt 
have been able to produce the statement showing the final payment before it had been 
made, and that the date the request was made meant an early repayment charge would 
have applied. But TSB accepted that the statement could have been manually edited once it 
became aware Mr H and Mrs C intended to keep the fixed rate until the end of the term. TSB 
apologised and offered Mr H and Mrs C £75 for the stress and inconvenience caused  this 
was later increased to £100.
Our investigator reviewed Mr H and Mrs Cs concerns, but they thought TSBs offer was 
appropriate in the circumstances. As Mr H and Mrs C disagreed, the complaint was passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr H and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld and Ill explain 
why.
TSB initially received the request for a redemption statement over one month before the 
fixed rate Mr H and Mrs C had was due to expire. I dont think it was clear to TSB at this 
point that Mr H and Mrs C intended to keep the mortgage until the fixed rate ended. But Mr H 
and Mrs C promptly contacted TSB to explain this and I think the statement could have been 
updated at this point. I say this because TSB has accepted that this could have been done 
manually under the circumstances.
As TSB didnt do this and Mr H and Mrs C had to contact TSB again, I can see why they felt 
they were caused unnecessary stress and inconvenience. I also understand Mr H and Mrs C 
were unhappy TSB didnt call them back on one occasion. From what Ive seen, this was 
because TSB were still looking into the matter. 
That said, Mr H and Mrs C have confirmed that their re-mortgage went ahead as planned 
and they were able to secure the low rate they wanted. So, while I can see they experienced 
some stress and inconvenience when trying to get an accurate redemption statement, I dont 
think there was a financial loss or any further significant impact on them.
TSB offered £75 to put things right and this was increased to £100 following a delay in 
making the payment. Ive thought about this carefully, and given the timescales involved, 
and Mr H and Mrs Cs comments about how TSBs actions affected them  I think TSBs 
offer is fair in the circumstances and I dont think they need to anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr H and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman