DRN-4060075
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) refused to refund him 
for transactions he says he didnt make.
What happened
On 10 April 2022 Barclays contacted Mr P to say that it had identified some potentially 
suspicious payments on his credit card account. Mr P subsequently identified a series of 
payments made between 5 April and 10 April 2022 which he says he did not make.
Barclays looked into what had happened, but said that the payments had been authorised 
using a digital wallet on a device registered by Mr P, and so believed that Mr P must have 
authorised them himself. Barclays therefore declined to refund the payments to Mr H, and 
subsequently also decided to close his credit card account.
Mr P didnt agree and contacted this service. He maintained that he had not made the 
disputed payments  which were made many miles away from where Mr P lives and in a city 
he had not visited for several years. Mr P also explained that nobody had access to his card, 
and that while he had recently added his card to a digital wallet on a work phone hed been 
given, he had never used that phone and it had not left his home.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. Overall, they felt it was more likely than not 
that Mr P had authorised the transactions himself or otherwise allowed them to be made.
Mr P wasnt satisfied, so as no agreement could be reached his complaint has been passed 
to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
Barclays) must show the transaction was authenticated. And here, Ive seen the computer 
evidence that Mr Ps genuine card details were used via a digital wallet that he had set up on 
his work phone. So the disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them.
The payments were made using a digital wallet on Mr Ps registered device. Mr P has said 
that nobody had access to the phone that was used, and either biometric login data or a PIN 
code would need to be used to access such a digital wallet. So it is difficult to see how an 
unknown third party could have made the payments without Mr Ps knowledge. 
Mr P has noted that Barclays had initially suggested his phone may have been cloned, and 
he questions why they said that and what evidence that assertion was based on. But Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr Ps phone was cloned, or that it was even possible it could have 
been cloned given that it was apparently in Mr Ps possession from the point it was 
delivered, and was sealed when he received it. And so I think it is most likely that Barclays 
was simply making suggestions as to what could have happened, not saying there was any 
evidence that this did happen.
And all the evidence Ive seen does point to it being more likely than not that Mr P was 
aware of these payments. The payments were made using a phone that he has said only he 
had access to, and there is evidence to show that he was logging into his online banking 
during the period of the disputed payments. These logins were from Mr Ps personal phone, 
and from an IP address that he had frequently used both before and after the disputed 
payments. Mr P has said that even if he was logging in, he wouldnt have necessarily 
checked his statements in detail, but given the amount of disputed spending we are talking 
about here  and that the other, undisputed, transactions on Mr Ps account were for only 
small amounts  I think he would have noticed the unexpected change in his balance.
Taking all these factors into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr P authorised the 
transactions himself or otherwise allowed them to be made. It follows that I consider 
Barclays has acted reasonably in deciding to hold him liable for those transactions. And, in 
line with the terms of his account, was also reasonable to decide to close his account.
I know this is not what Mr P was hoping to hear, but I am satisfied that Barclays has treated 
him fairly and reasonably here, I hope he will understand the reasons for my decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman