DRN-3990192
Complaint
Mr M has complained about loans Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says the 
loans were unaffordable.
Background
L2G provided Mr M with three loans for £1,000.00 in October 2020, February 2021 and       
May 2021. All of the loans had an APR of 1,013.2% and 18-month terms. This meant that 
the total amount to be repaid of £4,114.08, which included interest, fees and charges of 
£3,114.08, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £228.56. Loan 1 was settled 
early in January 2021 before loan 2 was taken the following day. And Loan 2 was settled 
early in February 2021.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G didnt act unfairly 
when providing these loans. Mr M disagreed with our adjudicator and so the case was 
passed forward for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
My provisional decision of 13 February 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 13 February 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started out by saying that weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms 
complaint.
I explained that L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether   
Mr M could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G said that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr M prior to 
providing him with all three of his loans. It also carried out credit checks. L2Gs said its 
checks suggested Mr M had more than enough to cover the payments to these loans and so 
it was reasonably entitled to lend. 
I carefully considered what L2G said. But it was clear to me that L2G wasnt persuaded by 
the income and expenditure information it received from Mr M. In particular, I was mindful 
that Mr Ms income was determined to be only around half of what he declared. Furthermore, 
the credit checks L2G carried out showed Mr M had a history of difficulties with credit and his 
indebtedness had grown by the time he applied for loans 2 and 3. 
So I was persuaded by what Mr M had said about already being in a difficult financial 
position at the time. And while I accepted that it was possible Mr Ms credit file reflected his 
choices rather than him struggling, I added that my experience of these types of cases 
suggested this was unlikely, I was satisfied that further checks would have been 
proportionate here.
And I thought that if L2G had carried out further checks before providing these loans, it 
would have seen that Mr M was struggling to manage his finances. Indeed, most of his 
income was being taken up by his existing living costs and repayments to his existing 
commitments. Mr Ms bank statements also showed the real reason for his difficulties too. 
Equally, it was obvious that Mr M was using the funds he was borrowing to gamble 
unsustainable sums of money.
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr M would not have been able to make the
repayments to these loans without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I found that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr M was in no sort of position to make the 
payments to these loans without suffering significant adverse consequences.
As L2G provided Mr M with these loans, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that 
it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
I then went on to set out a method of compensating Mr M which addressed L2Gs 
shortcomings and Mr Ms resultant loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M confirmed that he agreed with my provisional decision and that he had nothing further 
to add.
L2G didnt respond to my provisional decision or provide anything further for me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint in my provisional decision 
of 13 February 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties, Ive not 
been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still upholding Mr Ms complaint. And I 
remain satisfied that L2G needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what I think L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, I think that L2G should put things right for Mr M by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr M paid on his loans;adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr M to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information about these loans from Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give     
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 13 February 2023, 
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman