DRN-2757704
Complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Santander UK Plc is holding him liable for a series of payments he 
says he only made because he was being blackmailed.
Background
In early 2020, Mr D was contacted by someone who claimed to have compromising 
information about him and threatened to release it unless he made payments to them. Mr D 
made a series of payments to this individual totalling £472.23 in value. Each payment was 
made to a cryptocurrency platform. The first was made in March 2020 and they were made 
periodically for just over a year. Mr D says that he contacted Santander after making the first 
payment and asked it to block any future payments made that related to cryptocurrency.
Mr D complained to Santander. Santander didnt uphold his complaint. It said that, as Mr D 
had made the payments willingly, it couldnt be responsible for his losses. Mr D was unhappy 
with this response, so he referred his complaint to this service. It was looked at by an 
investigator who didnt uphold it. The investigator said that, while Mr D had only made the 
payments because someone was pressuring him into do so, he had still authorised them 
within the meaning of the relevant rules. And because hed authorised them, Santander was 
entitled to hold him liable for them.
Mr D was unhappy with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and issue a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important that Im clear at the outset that Im only considering the actions taken by 
Santander here. Mr D has been cruelly targeted by a cynical and manipulative individual and 
he has my sympathy for the difficulties hes been through as a result. However, after giving 
his complaint careful consideration, Im afraid I dont think Santander has done anything 
wrong here. 
Under the relevant regulations that apply to complaints like this one, Santander is entitled to 
hold Mr D liable for the transactions if he authorised them and a payment is considered 
authorised if the account holder consented to it. Mr D did give consent to Santander to 
process these payments, albeit he appears to have only done so because he was coerced. 
Unfortunately, I dont find that Mr D being subject to pressure to make the payments has the 
effect of invalidating the consent that he gave. Mr D knowingly gave a series of legitimate 
payment instructions and I dont think Santander did anything wrong in processing them. 
Overall, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Santander to hold Mr D liable for those 
payments. 
Mr D says that he contacted Santander after the first payment to request that it block future 
payments that related to cryptocurrency. Unfortunately, theres no record of that phone call 
having been made. I can see that other instances of Mr D contacting Santander have 
resulted in call notes being logged, including the call he made to report the fraud. On 
balance, I dont think I can say that Santander was put on notice that it should stop Mr D 
from making payments to purchase cryptocurrency.
At the time these payments were made, Santander was expected to be on the lookout for 
suspicious or unusual activity on Mr Ds account with the aim of protecting him from financial 
harm and fraud. It is now known (with the benefit of hindsight) that Mr D was only making 
these payments because he was being coerced into doing so. But from Santanders 
perspective, there was nothing about the use of the account that wouldve been cause for 
concern. There was no sudden change in spending, most of the payments were fairly small 
and took place over a period of months. Unfortunately, there would not have been any clear 
indication from the account activity that Mr D was at risk of fraud and so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Santander to have processed these payments without questioning them 
with him.
Mr D told the investigator that he has learning difficulties and that this might have made him 
more at risk of scams like this one. Unfortunately, it looks like he hadnt told Santander about 
this at the time he was making these payments. It will need to be mindful of that in its future 
interactions with Mr D, but I dont think it did anything wrong in failing to take his learning 
difficulties into account during this period.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman