DRN-1704778
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited wouldnt continue offering her 
home insurance cover after she moved home.
What happened
Mrs J had a home insurance policy with Admiral. In July 2019, she moved home and she 
called Admiral to update her policy details. Admiral said that because Mrs J had moved to 
new build and her postcode wasnt registered on its systems, it didnt think it could insure her 
new property. It told Mrs J itd check with its pricing team to see if it there was any way that it 
could cover her new home.
Admiral got back in touch with Mrs J a few days later. It confirmed that it wouldnt be able to 
insure her new home. It said it didnt have any data for her new postcode, so it couldnt 
accurately assess the risk of a claim. This meant it couldnt provide a quote. It cancelled Mrs 
Js policy, waived the cancellation fee and refunded Mrs J the unused part of her annual 
premium.
Mrs J was unhappy with Admirals decision and asked us to look into her complaint. She was 
unhappy shed been left without insurance while she was waiting for Admiral to confirm 
whether or not it could offer her a policy. Shed been able to obtain quotes from other 
insurers. She felt Admiral shouldve taken into account an adjacent postcode to calculate the 
risk. And Admiral had continued to insure her car  so she questioned why it didnt have 
enough data to insure her home. She said the situation had caused her a great deal of 
stress and upset and she felt she should be compensated for this.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Js complaint should be upheld. He felt Admiral had 
explained why it couldnt provide an insurance quote. So he didnt think it had acted unfairly. 
He said car insurance was based on different risk factors. And he thought that if Mrs J had 
been concerned about her home being uninsured while Admiral investigated whether it could 
offer cover, she couldve either obtained temporary cover or simply taken out a new annual 
policy with an alternative insurer.
Mrs J disagreed. She said that getting temporary cover wouldve been prohibitively 
expensive. And she felt that Admiral shouldve simply covered this period for her. The car 
insurance department and other insurers had used a nearby postcode to calculate quotes, 
so she felt the home insurance department ought to have done so too. She didnt feel 
Admiral had treated her fairly.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Admiral has treated Mrs J fairly. Ill explain why.
First, I need to make it clear that I wont be looking at the underwriting decision of Admirals 
motor insurance department as part of this complaint. Admiral told us this was a new 
complaint point which Mrs J had made to us and which it hadnt had the chance to look into 
when it considered the complaint. So it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make a finding on 
this here. It is worth pointing out though that the home and motor insurance departments are 
separate to one another and that theyre likely to take into account different risk factors when 
deciding whether or not to offer insurance cover. So just because the motor department 
could continue to insure Mrs Js car, it doesnt automatically follow that the home insurance 
department should cover her home.
Id like to explain to Mrs J how we look at complaints like this. We wont generally tell an 
insurer what risks it should agree to insure. Or what factors it should take into account when 
its assessing risk. I think Admiral was entitled to reassess the risk of Mrs J needing to make 
a claim when she called up to update her address details and assess whether it was 
prepared to offer cover. And because it didnt consider it had enough information to 
accurately assess the risk of a claim, I think Admiral was entitled not to offer Mrs J a quote.
But what I have checked for Mrs J is that Admiral treated her fairly. Ive looked at what 
factors it took into account when it declined to continue to offer insurance cover. In reaching 
my decision, I need to be persuaded that Admirals treated Mrs J in the same way as any 
other customer it insures. And I need to be satisfied that it hasnt singled her out in any way. 
Admiral told Mrs J it couldnt continue to insure her after she moved because it didnt have 
enough information about her new postcode. It said it didnt have data about flood risk, crime 
risks or subsidence, for example. So it said it couldnt accurately assess the risk of a claim. I 
asked Admiral to provide me with information from one of its underwriting team which 
clarified why it couldnt offer Mrs J cover. This evidence supported what Admiral told Mrs J  
it simply couldnt match her postcode with its database and so it couldnt undertake a risk 
assessment for her new home. Im persuaded that Admiral wouldve treated any policyholder 
in Mrs Js situation in the same way. This means Im satisfied it did treat her fairly and didnt 
single her out in any way.
I appreciate Mrs J feels that Admiral shouldve taken into account a neighbouring postcode 
as other insurers did. As I explained, we wont generally tell an insurer what factors it should 
take into account or how it should calculate risk. My role isnt to tell an insurer how it should 
operate its business or to direct it to change its processes and procedures. And insurers 
arent required to calculate risk in exactly the same way. So while I appreciate it mustve 
been frustrating when Mrs J could obtain insurance from other companies which used a 
different postcode to calculate a quote, I dont think this shows that Admiral did anything 
wrong or acted unreasonably.
Mrs J told us she suffered a great deal of stress while Admiral checked if it could provide 
insurance. I accept it mustve been worrying when Mrs J learned that she couldnt continue 
with Admiral and that she was without cover for a few days. But from what Mrs Js told us, it 
seems Admiral was clear upfront that it didnt look like it could insure her new address. So 
while I appreciate shed been with Admiral for a few years and wanted to remain with it, I 
think she did have the choice at that point to cancel the policy and look elsewhere for 
alternative cover. I think it was appropriate for Admiral to look into things further with its pricing team, which was delayed by a few days due to the weekend. But I dont think it would 
be fair for me to award compensation when it seems Admiral was trying to assist Mrs J at 
this point. 
Overall, having considered everything, I think Admiral has treated Mrs J fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman