DRN-1965357
complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs A says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card agreement, taken out in 2002. 
The PPI was taken out in a store, at the same time as taking out the credit facility.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this 
complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs As case and Ill explain why. 
AXA needed to make sure that it made clear to Mrs A that she had a choice about whether 
to take the PPI.
AXA says the PPI was taken out in store and that Mrs A wouldve been asked to opt in for 
the policy on her credit agreement - and that it wouldve been clear that the PPI was 
optional. Mrs A also recalls the PPI being taken out in a store but says she didnt agree to 
take it out. 
AXA havent provided any evidence to persuade me that Mrs A had a choice about taking 
out the policy or anything to show she agreed to have it. So, Im not satisfied that Ive been 
shown that Mrs A chose to take the PPI, knowing that she didnt have to. This means that I 
think her complaint should be upheld. 
Im upholding Mrs As complaint. Therefore, AXA should put Mrs A in the position shed be in 
now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled 
already and AXA should: 
Pay Mrs A the amount she paid each month for the PPI Add simple interest to each 
payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The rate of interest 8% a year*. 
 
If Mrs A made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mrs As complaint and AXA France IARD 
should put things right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman