DRN-3976896
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) handled a 
claim he made on a personal income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M previously held income protection insurance with LV. In August 2020, Mr M took out a 
new personal income protection insurance policy which was also underwritten by LV. The 
policy provides cover in the event that Mr M is unable to work in his own occupation due to 
sickness.
In July 2022, Mr M made a claim on the policy. He said that in November 2021, hed been 
injured as the result of a car accident and suffered with back, shoulder, hip and nerve pain. 
LV asked Mr Ms GP for medical information about his condition in mid-August 2022. 
However, due to problems with the invoice, the GP didnt return the information for around 
four weeks.
Following its review of the GPs evidence, LV noted the GP had recorded that Mr M had first 
consulted them for advice about his particular condition in January 2017  over three years 
before the policy had been taken out. So LV required more information from Mr Ms GP to 
establish whether or not Mr Ms claim was payable. 
However, it took around five weeks for the GP to respond to LVs information request, and 
when it provided further evidence, it didnt reflect what LV had asked for. So it needed to ask 
for additional evidence from the GP in order to assess the claim.
In December 2022, Mr M provided LV with a copy of his medical records for the period 
November 2021 until October 2022. But these records still werent for the specific timeframe 
LV had asked about. This meant it felt it needed to contact the GP again to ask for further 
information.
Mr M was unhappy with the delay in LV assessing his claim and so he asked us to look into 
his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He noted that the policy 
terms allowed LV to request medical information. And given the GPs initial answer as to Mr 
Ms first consultation date, he thought itd been reasonable for LV to request the information 
it needed to assess the claim. He wasnt persuaded that LV was responsible for any delay in 
the GP providing the evidence itd asked for.
Mr M disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I dont think LV has treated him unfairly 
and Ill explain why.
First, I must make it clear that, as the investigator has explained, this decision will only 
consider whether LV caused unreasonable delays in the assessment of this claim between 
July 2022 and 16 January 2023. I understand LV has now made a claims decision which has 
been communicated to Mr M. I also understand that Mr M has made a new complaint to LV 
about that decision. If he remains unhappy with its response to that particular complaint, we 
may be able to consider a complaint about that issue alone. But I wont be considering LVs 
claims decision here.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr Ms policy and the available evidence, 
to decide whether LV handled Mr Ms claim fairly up until 16 January 2023.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr M and LV. Page four of the policy sets out a section called What happens when 
I need to make a claim? This includes the following term:
In some cases we may need to contact your doctor or other medical professional. Dont 
worry, well always cover the costs of any information we need, and well only ask for 
information that is absolutely necessary.
As such then, I think that contractually, LV was entitled to ask for medical evidence in order 
to assess whether Mr Ms claim was covered. And its a general principle of insurance that 
its a policyholders responsibility to show they have a valid claim on a policy. Often though, 
an insurer may investigate claims on a policyholders behalf. Generally, I dont think its 
unreasonable for an insurer to request information to demonstrate whether or not a claim is 
covered by the policy terms. So I dont find LV acted unfairly or unreasonably when it asked 
for medical evidence in support of Mr Ms claim.
In this particular case, I can see that LV requested a GP claim form promptly after it received 
Mr Ms signed consent form. Unfortunately, it appears that the GPs invoice wasnt received 
and so there was a delay in the form being returned to LV. I dont think I can fairly hold LV 
responsible for any delays in the postal system.
The GP claim form stated that Mr M had first consulted for his condition in January 2017, 
which pre-dated Mr Ms application for the policy. Mr M hadnt told LV about any existing 
back or shoulder injuries when he applied for the contract. So I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for LV to want to look into this further and establish whether this would affect 
the cover Mr M held.
LV promptly asked the GP for further information about any consultation Mr M had had in 
January 2017. While it waited for the evidence, it asked both Mr M and his financial adviser 
for further information about the episode in 2017. And both Mr M and his financial adviser 
gave LV different accounts as to what had happened in 2017.
On 4 November 2022, around five weeks after it had asked for further information, the GP 
sent LV an amended claim form, which crossed through the original 2017 answer and simply 
stated: N/A. Given the discrepancy between the information on that form and the GPs 
original form, I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to require more clarification about Mr 
M's medical history. It contacted the GP again on 15 November 2022 with a targeted request 
for Mr Ms medical notes between August 2015 and August 2020, which specifically related 
to back and muscular conditions.  I think this was a fair request for LV to make in the 
circumstances.Mr M sent LV a copy of his GP notes on 1 December 2022. However, these only related to 
the period November 2021 until October 2022. The notes didnt correspond with LVs 
request and I dont think it was unfair for LV to conclude that this still wasnt enough 
information about any potential episode in 2017. As such, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for LV to conclude it still couldnt establish whether or not the claim was covered at this point. 
This means I think it was reasonably entitled to ask for further evidence in support of Mr Ms 
claim. LV accordingly set the GP a further request for the same, targeted information on 9 
January 2023.
I can understand that Mr M was anxious for an outcome to his claim and I sympathise with 
the frustration he likely felt when LV couldnt give him a decision as quickly as he might have 
wished. But as Ive set out above, I simply dont think LV acted unfairly when it requested 
additional information to help it to assess Mr Ms claim. And from what Ive seen, I dont think 
I could fairly or reasonably find that LV was responsible for any delays in the assessment of 
the claim. I say that because I can see from the notes that LV responded to incoming post 
promptly and assessed it in good time. I can also see that LV repeatedly chased-up the GP 
surgery by email and by phone. LVs information requests were clear and understandable. It 
cant fairly be held responsible for any delay in the GP sending the information LV required 
to decide this claim. 
Overall then, I dont find that I could fairly or reasonably find that LV made any error between 
July 2022 and 16 January 2023. So Im not making any award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman