DRN-3843088
The complaint
Mr M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited wont refund a payment 
made on his credit card for a hotel stay.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr M paid a travel agent £372.24 to stay in a hotel abroad in November 
2020 using his American Express Services Europe Limited credit card (Amex for short).
When he arrived the hotel was closed down due to the pandemic. The hotel was part of a 
chain of hotels and it had a sister hotel approximately 400m away. So Mr M went and stayed 
there for the week hed booked. But Mr M says the sister hotel was of a lesser standard than 
that hotel hed paid for. And he said that arriving at the original hotel to find it closed was 
distressing and that the travel agent had done nothing to help in the matter whatsoever. He 
didnt get anywhere with his complaint to the agent. So he took his dispute to Amex.
Amex raised a chargeback which the agent defended by saying Mr M had used the service 
booked. So Amex didnt do any more.
Mr M didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, they thought Amex had acted unfairly by not considering 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 properly. And accordingly they thought that 
Amex should refund the difference in costs between the two hotels (calculated to be £48.39) 
plus interest on any credit balance on Mr Ms card. Amex accepted this assessment and 
made clear it would follow the redress methodology of the Investigator. Mr M doesnt think 
this is a fair outcome. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the agent or indeed the hotels, which 
arent financial services providers and so dont fall within my remit. This decision is solely 
about whether Amex treated Mr M fairly when he took his dispute with the agent to Amex.
Amex has two ways of considering what happened here, either through the chargeback 
process or under S75. It did raise a chargeback which the agent defended. But it didnt 
appear to properly consider the matter under S75 originally. However it now does agree with 
the investigators findings that it should compensate Mr M as explained.
Amex here is only liable in such a scenario because of this piece of legislation. And the 
legislation makes clear Amex is only responsible for breach of contract and 
misrepresentation. It isnt responsible for customer service or the broader experience Mr M 
had. However Im satisfied that this dispute falls within the financial limits requirements 
within the legislation. And Im satisfied that in terms of the contract Mr M had with the agent 
for its services, the debtor creditor supplier requirement in the legislation is made out also.
The agents terms make clear that it would confirm availability of the booking to Mr M once 
he made his booking. Ive seen no evidence of such a confirmation being made. And as the 
hotel chain have made clear, the original hotel was closed throughout the period in question. 
So had the agent tried to confirm availability with the hotel properly it would have discovered 
it was closed. So Im satisfied the agent breached its contract here by not confirming 
availability as set out in its terms agreed. Im satisfied had it done so it would have told Mr M 
the hotel was closed, and a different course of action would have resulted.
However as this didnt happen Mr M arrived at the hotel to find it was closed. Mr M then 
managed, through his own ingenuity, to get a room in the sister hotel nearby. Mr M hasnt 
shown he had to pay for that hotel. In fact Mr M hasnt evidenced any incurred costs, other 
than to say he incurred some such costs. But no receipts or other evidence of such has been 
provided in this dispute.
Mr M, in his emails with our investigator has said my case was either for a complete refund, 
or a refund for a difference in the cost of the hotel estimated as £200; shown in the 
screenshot below (this shows the nightly difference in rates). Additional out of pocket
expenses were in my original email. Clearly Mr M accepts he had use of the sister hotel for 
the same period as he booked the original hotel. So a complete refund would clearly be 
unfair on Amex as Mr M has received significant benefit here, namely the stay at the sister 
hotel. And as Mr M suggests the difference in hotel costs is a fair methodology above then 
clearly Mr Ms disquiet with the investigators position is with the amount of recompense in 
monetary terms rather than methodology. Which I appreciate bearing in mind the obvious 
disappointment of arriving at a closed hotel and having to make other arrangements there 
and then.
However Ive considered the methodology of the Investigator with regard to the cost 
difference between sister hotels, which are close together, albeit with different settings in 
regard to the beach and other nearby amenities and not having identical facilities. Due to the 
nature of hotel room prices fluctuating constantly finding the exact price difference is difficult, 
particularly considering that one of the hotels was closed at the precise time of Mr Ms trip. 
Nevertheless the methodology of the Investigator is fair to my mind. And it should be 
remembered that these were sister hotels close together providing similar facilities and 
rooms within the mass market range of prices. This is not a case of Mr M having missed out 
on luxury top-end experience and having to settle for some sort of a terrible squalid hotel. 
These are sister hotels providing largely similar facilities and experiences. Mr Ms arguments 
around price differential are not persuasive to me bearing in mind these factors. And his 
suggestion that the sister hotel would have been more than half the price of the original hotel 
is unpersuasive considering the above factors and what we know of them.
I shall now address some of Mr Ms other arguments for completeness. Mr M says he should 
be compensated for not being informed of hotel closure and no other arrangements being 
made. I agree with Mr Ms comments about the agent not saying anything about the hotel 
being closed before he travelled. And the only evidence I can see about the hotel being 
closed is dated days after Mr M arrived. So I dont think that makes a difference to the 
matter. However Amex is only responsible for breach of contract and material 
misrepresentation. It isnt responsible for customer service outside of the contractual terms. 
So although Im sure these events were disconcerting for Mr M, the agents terms make 
clear its only responsible for the service of making the booking. It doesnt provide a support 
service to customers on arrival and as the legislation means Amex is responsible as a like 
claim I see no persuasive reason for Mr M to be compensated for such a lack of support 
from the agent around these matters.Mr M also thinks he should be compensated for facilities and location not being as booked. I 
think this is fairly accounted for in the price differential between the hotels, so see no need 
for further redress here.
Mr M says he should be compensated for cost of finding a new hotel including time and taxi 
costs. As Ive noted these hotels are relatively close to each other. And Mr M hasnt provided 
any evidence of such costs such as receipts. So I dont see a persuasive reason why Amex 
should compensate for this. It is of note that the sister hotel didnt charge Mr M. It seems 
clear Mr M had proof of booking with him on arrival at the sister hotel. It may even be that 
this was not a singular occurrence of this happening. And Mr Ms description of the 
difficulties of finding a new hotel arent particularly detailed. So Im not persuaded there is 
any significant consequential loss in this regard.
Mr M says he should be compensated for emotional distress for what happened. But Amex 
is only responsible for breaches of contract and losses that flow from that. It is not 
responsible for matters outside of that such as customer service. Mr M hasnt provided any 
persuasive evidence of such a consequential loss such as medical receipts for treatment of 
such emotional distress. And these hotels were within walking distance of each other and it 
seems clear the sister hotel was able to provide a room without further cost to Mr M. So Im 
not persuaded the position Amex has agreed to since the assessment of the investigator is 
unfair. So I think Mr Ms complaint should be successful.
Putting things right
Amex should rework Mr Ms credit card as if the payment of £48.39 had been refunded when
he approached it on 28 December 2020. And where this reworking of his account leads to 
periods of positive balance, interest at 8% simple should be paid to Mr M on those amounts 
for those periods until Amex settles this matter. And when it settles the matter it should write 
to him explaining how and that it has done so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against American Express Services 
Europe Limited and direct it to settle this matter as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman