DRN-3040520
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unfairly declined a claim for 
critical illness benefit. 
Mr and Mrs D have been supported by a representative but, for ease, Ill refer to all actions 
and comments as being those of Mr D.
 
What happened
An ombudsman issued a final decision about Avivas original decision to decline Mr Ds 
critical illness claim in May 2020. That final decision has been published on our website 
under reference DRN-1833161. Rather than repeat the background in detail, Ill only refer to 
some key events here. 
Mr and Mrs D took out a Life and Critical Illness policy with Aviva in 2001. In 2018 Mr D was 
sadly diagnosed with dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP), a form of cancer, and 
sought to claim under the policy.  
Aviva didnt accept the claim as it said DFSP was a skin cancer which was expressly 
excluded under the policy terms. Mr D disagreed and referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our ombudsmen considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He was persuaded 
that the evidence supported that while DFSP is classified as a sarcoma, it is also classified 
as a skin cancer. Given the policy expressly excludes all claims for skin cancer the 
ombudsman concluded Aviva had not acted unreasonably by declining the claim on this 
basis. 
Mr D has since sought further medical evidence from his consultant histopathologist, who Ill 
refer to as Dr M, to support that his diagnosis falls within the policy definition of cancer. Hes 
argued:
His tumour is malignant and locally aggressive, and therefore meets the overarching 
cancer definition. 
The evidence supports that the cancer arose from the mesenchymal tissue and is 
therefore not classified as a skin cancer but as a sarcoma.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) has classified DFSP as a sarcoma, and 
Aviva has accepted this to be the case. He therefore questions why his claim was 
declined on the basis that he has a skin cancer. 
Evidence supports that his condition is a soft tissue sarcoma and not a skin cancer. 
The only reason WHO mentions DFSP in its Classification of Skin Tumours is for the 
benefit of medical professionals. 
The policy wording suggests the only sarcoma excluded is Kaposis sarcoma in the 
presence of any Human Immunodeficiency Virus.
His treating specialists are best placed to comment on his cancer diagnosis.
Mr D also highlighted another final decision reached by this service, where a complaint 
concerning similar issues was upheld.  
Aviva considered the further evidence from Dr M but maintained its decision to decline 
Mr Ds claim. It explained that whilst Dr Ms letter was new, the argument was not. Aviva 
explained it had already considered Dr Ms histopathology report when it originally assessed 
Mr Ds claim. It confirmed that whilst Mr D was asserting that DFSP was a sarcoma and not 
a skin cancer, its position was that DFSP is a sarcoma that arises in the skin and is therefore 
also a skin cancer, which is expressly excluded by the policy. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He considered Aviva had 
reasonably concluded that the further evidence from Dr M was not sufficiently persuasive to 
say Mr Ds cancer should be covered by the policy. 
Mr D disagreed and asked for a final decision. He said the investigator had unfairly placed 
more weight on Avivas evidence than that of his treating specialist. He noted that his 
condition is very rare and as such there are few oncologists who specialise in it. In the 
circumstances he considers the weight of evidence supports his claim. He also suggested 
that the policy terms are ambiguous, and if Aviva wanted to exclude DFSP then it should 
have stated this more clearly. Ultimately, Mr D argues that he has a malignant sarcoma 
which can arise in the skin, but that does not mean it is a skin cancer. He considers he has a 
soft tissue sarcoma. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Ive reviewed the final decision reached by the ombudsman in Mr Ds earlier case, I 
have reached my decision in this case independently.
As a final decision has previously been issued, I have only considered the additional 
information Mr D has provided since May 2020, notably Dr Ms letter dated April 2021, and 
whether this ought to reasonably make a difference to Avivas claims decision. Having 
thought about this carefully I dont think it does. So, Im not upholding this complaint. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs D as this was not the answer they 
were hoping for. But I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly by declining Mr Ds claim. Ill 
explain why. 
In her letter from April 2021, Dr M provides some further detailed explanation of what DFSP 
is. This includes how its characterised, where it originates and how its classified. She also 
provides some general information about possible future prognosis and some context to why 
DFSP is included in the WHO Classification of Skin Tumours. But significantly she hasnt 
provided any new persuasive evidence to counter Avivas argument that DFSP is both a 
sarcoma and a skin cancer. As such, I dont think her evidence provides any persuasive 
reason why Aviva should change its claims decision.  
While Mr D has raised some valid points about how we assess medical evidence, and what 
weight should be attached to said evidence, I dont think this is enough to say Dr Ms 
evidence is sufficiently persuasive to say his claim should be paid. Whilst Dr M is one of 
Mr Ds treating specialists, shes not commented specifically on Mr Ds diagnosis, or how 
DFSP has presented in him personally. As such, I wouldnt say her evidence carries any 
more weight than any other appropriately qualified histopathologist. But even if I considered 
her evidence carried the most weight, she hasnt actually concluded that DFSP is not a skin 
cancer, although she has described why it is also classified as a sarcoma, which is not in 
dispute. Ultimately, Im not here to make a medical decision and clearly this is an evolving area 
where medical opinion appears to be somewhat divided. But my role is to consider whether 
the evidence supports that the policy definition has been met, or more specifically whether 
an exclusion can fairly be applied. In this case, I consider Aviva has reasonably concluded 
that the weight of medical evidence indicates that DFSP is a sarcoma arising in the skin and 
can be correctly categorised as both a skin cancer and a sarcoma, as per the WHO 
classifications. As the policy expressly excludes all skin cancers, without qualification, I 
think Aviva has reasonably concluded DFSP is excluded on the basis that it is a skin cancer. 
As such I think its acted fairly by declining Mr Ds claim. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Ds suggestion that the policy terms are ambiguous and should 
therefore be interpreted in his favour. But I dont agree the terms of his policy are in fact 
ambiguous. 
In bringing this complaint, Mr D has referenced another complaint that was referred to our 
service, where one of our Ombudsmen concluded that a particular cancer definition was 
ambiguous and gave rise to a valid claim in relation to DFSP.  But the terms that applied to 
that policy differ from those that apply to Mr Ds policy. Significantly, unlike the other policy, 
Mr Ds policy does not expressly include sarcomas. Nor does it contain the additional 
explanatory comments about what the skin cancer exclusion was intended to cover. Mr Ds 
policy defines cancer as:
Cancer:
A malignant tumour characterised by the uncontrolled growth and spread of malignant cells
and invasion of tissue. The term cancer includes leukaemia and Hodgkin's disease but the
following are excluded:
All tumours which are histologically described as pre-malignant, as non-invasive or 
as cancer in situ.
All forms of lymphoma in the presence of any Human Immune-deficiency Virus
Kaposi's sarcoma in the presence of any Human Immune-deficiency Virus.
Any skin cancer other than invasive malignant melanoma."
Mr D has said that Aviva should have stated it more clearly within the policy terms if it 
specifically wanted to exclude DFSP, but I disagree. While certain named diagnoses - such 
as leukaemia, Hodgkins disease and Kaposis sarcoma - are either expressly included or 
excluded for cover, I dont think it follows that all diagnoses should be similarly listed. Given 
the sheer number of possible diagnoses it would be impractical to expressly state whether 
each should be included or excluded. But its also unnecessary where the policy terms 
clearly set out in broad terms the categories that are to be included or excluded. I consider 
the above terms clearly and unambiguously set out that the policy will not provide cover for 
any skin cancer, with the only exception being malignant melanoma.
As explained above, Im satisfied the evidence supports that Mr D has been diagnosed with 
a skin cancer, albeit one that can also be correctly categorised as a sarcoma. As such, his 
claim is expressly excluded under these specific policy terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman