DRN-4121197
The complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund a large number of payments he 
didnt make on his current account. He wants Barclays to refund those payments.
What happened
I summarised the background facts behind Mr S complaint in my provisional decision. I 
repeat those facts now for the purposes of this final decision.
Mr S holds a current account with Barclays. On 23 March 2022 he raised a large fraud claim. 
He said he didnt recognise a very significant number of card payments that debited his 
account from August 2021 until the claim was raised. All the payments were made mainly 
online using his debit card details. None of the payments were authenticated by Chip and 
PIN.
Mr S says he didnt spot the payments earlier due to his focus being on setting up his 
business in Columbia (a company), where he lived at the time. He has since returned to the 
UK and is working to rebuild funds to continue his business.
Mr S had been using his Barclays account in part to carry out business transactions, 
alongside an account he holds in Columbia and an account in the United States of America 
(USA). From listening to the call where he raised the fraud claim, he said he only realised his 
losses after a cash flow analysis revealed he had less funds available than expected, which 
led to a review of his account.
Barclays set up multiple claims to be dealt with together due the extent of the disputed 
payments and their system limitations. When Mr S raised the fraud, Barclays advisor didnt 
go through each payment individually due to how many payments there were. Instead, they 
raised most payments based on what they understood the nature of the fraud to be, 
occasionally asking whether Mr S recognised specific payments.
Many of the payments were to well-known online food delivery and transport companies, and 
an online marketplace. Barclays recredited some of the claims at this time, although this 
didnt mean the funds couldnt be re-debited subject to the result of their fraud investigation. 
Some claims however werent initially recredited due to their higher value.
Prior to the fraud claim, Mr S contacted Barclays in November 2021 because card payments 
to well-known online media companies were being blocked. The payments were for online 
marketing and advertising for his company. On a phone call he made to Barclays at the time, 
he revealed his company used a marketing agency based in the US to make these 
payments on its behalf. Mr S had given his card details to the agency and entered into a 
spend authorisation agreement with them, which I have seen - he says this is standard 
practice for professional services of this type. He confirmed his company entered into no 
other similar agreement with any other supplier and the agency did not have access to his 
online account.
During Barclays investigation they re-credited and re-debited Mr S account twice. From 
listening to their calls with Mr S, its clear he provided information they asked for on several 
occasions before their submission deadlines. Indeed, Barclays acknowledged on at least two 
calls that they had received Mr Ss information. But Barclays still on one occasion re-debited 
the disputed funds due to non-receipt of that information, which resulted in the fraud claim 
being relogged.
In September 2022 Barclays declined the fraud claim, which left Mr S with an overdraft 
balance after the re-debit of funds. Interestingly, on a call Mr S had with Barclays after the 
decision to decline his fraud claim was made, he was told Barclays back-office team would 
be prejudiced towards declining the claim because it was relogged, even though this was 
Barclays error.
On the same call Mr S was told the reason for his claim being declined was due to the large 
number of times he had logged onto mobile banking and IP addresses on devices used to 
make payments matching the location of IP addresses he used previously. Mr S insisted he 
wasnt in the USA or the location of the countries where some of the payments were 
recorded at the time they were made, and he couldnt use mobile banking.
Ive also seen Mr S log in history doesnt show mobile banking log ins for the period in 
question and Barclays later confirmed to our service they were referring to Mr S logging onto 
his online account. Listening to the calls, Mr S said he couldnt use mobile banking due to his 
mobile number not being a UK number, which Barclays didnt disagree with.
Our investigator upheld Mr S complaint, but Barclays rejected the outcome and requested a 
final decision.
I considered Mr S complaint and issued a provisional decision, upholding the complaint but 
making different findings and recommending different redress.
My provisional findings were:
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Barclays is generally liable to refund 
payments Mr S didnt authorise. After considering all the available evidence Im satisfied Mr 
S didnt authorise the payments. Ill explain why.
Mr S logged onto his account multiple times during the period of the disputed 
payments to make online transfers, including moving large sums to his current 
account. I understand Barclays placing some weight on it being unusual he didnt 
notice the reductions in his account balance and raise a dispute earlier.
But Mr S was still using the account for genuine spend, some of which were large 
debits out, so he would presumably have expected some significant reductions in his 
balance. And, in this context I dont find it implausible he failed to notice the reduction 
in his balance for the reasons he stated  that he was very distracted due to the 
setting up and running of his fledgling company in Columbia. Ive seen that he did set 
up a company and was using two other non-UK accounts for business expenditure.Barclays have placed weight on Mr S not spotting disputed payments when he called 
them in early November 2021. But I dont find him querying why payments for online 
marketing and advertising were being refused is sufficient to show he more likely 
than not would have seen the disputed payments on his account at that time.
The nature of much of the disputed spend is indicative of established card fraud, 
particularly the frequency and extent of payments made to a well-known online 
transport and food delivery company and an online marketplace. Barclays 
commented more than once during the course their investigation on the nature of the 
spend being out of character for Mr S, including by the fraud investigator. Its also 
clear Mr S has been a long-standing customer of Barclays, and not raised a fraud 
claim before. Im satisfied the nature of the payments supports the conclusion that 
they resulted from fraud.
Barclays say Mr S previously used the services of some of the companies for which 
claims have been raised. But I dont find what Barclays have said telling because a 
very large amount of people are customers of these companies, and they can still go 
on to experience this kind of fraud by their card details being misappropriated.
Mr S has shown he had an account with the company known for providing transport 
and food delivery services and he used their services in Columbia, which supports 
his presence in that country during the period in question. He has made clear that he 
isnt raising payments made to that company for travel in Columbia during that time. 
And he has also said he isnt disputing payments to that same company in Dubai 
when he had a stopover. Presumably he is also not disputing payments which were 
made to Columbian merchants. If Mr S is disputing some of these payments, I would 
ask that he reviews the statements which were provided to him previously to highlight 
the payments he says he didnt authorise.
Mr S said Barclays advisor may have erred in raising some payments as fraud. And, 
having listened to how the fraud claim was raised, its quite possible payments were 
raised as fraud which Mr S didnt expressly dispute. Its evident Barclays advisor 
made presumptions about what payments were fraudulent, rather than going through 
every payment with Mr S. The advisor went through each month from August 2021, 
only occasionally raising specific payments, and then told Mr S the total value of 
payments raised as fraud for each month as they went along.
Barclays have relied on IP addresses to conclude they think Mr S authorised the 
payments. But from what I can see Mr S IP address matched the location of where 
he said he was, showing he was in Columbia most of the time the payments were 
made. I havent seen evidence to show the disputed payments were made on a 
device registered to Mr S account or why his presence in Columbia supports him 
authorising the payments in dispute.
Barclays have relied on four one-time passcodes being sent to verify four payments. 
But I havent seen evidence to show Mr S disputed the payments in question (again 
taking into account the context of how Barclays advisor raised the fraud claim) and 
neither is it clear which payments the passcodes related to or by what method Mr S 
would have inputted the passcodes to verify the payments, given he wasnt using 
mobile banking.Barclays have placed weight on Mr S not disputing payments made in US dollars in 
July 2021 and August 2021 when later payments to the same merchants were raised 
as fraudulent. But Barclays havent pointed out the exact payments they are relying 
on and cross referenced those to payments later raised as fraud. Its possible Mr S 
may not know about the payments Barclays are referring to - it was after all their 
advisor who reviewed Mr S account activity and raised claims from the beginning of 
August 2021 onwards.
Barclays relied on not finding a point of compromise to explain how Mr S card details 
were obtained. But a point of compromise can happen via a variety of means without 
Mr S card being physically stolen or lost. A lot of card fraud happens without a 
customer knowing how their card details were obtained. All that would have been 
needed was a breach of Mr S card details and/or Mr S card being skimmed. Mr S 
has confirmed he made a trip to the USA in late May 2021 and shown evidence of his 
fights, so its possible a breach occurred during this time. But frankly his card details 
could have been obtained without him having needed to have visited the USA.
Mr S entered into an agreement with an agency suppling them with his card details. 
But I have seen no evidence to show his losses resulted from this arrangement. So, I 
am not concluding he failed with intent or was grossly negligent which caused the 
fraud in question.
So, I dont currently find Mr S should be held liable for the disputed payments. I am 
inclined to require Barclays to do the following to put matters right:
Refund each payment Mr S disputed making, excluding the payments he said were 
made by him which might have been added to the fraud claim unintentionally and 
payments made to Columbian merchants/payees, and add 8 percent simple interest 
per annum on each payment until the date of settlement unless those payments were 
already refunded and not re-debited.
If Barclays considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr S how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Restructure Mr S account as if the disputed payments hadnt been made, refunding 
any interest or charges that wouldnt have been charged but for those payments, 
such as any interest or overdraft charges. And (if they exist) remove any adverse 
credit markers that wouldnt have resulted had the fraudulent payments not debited 
the account.
Pay Mr S £150 for the distress and inconvenience he was caused due to Barclays 
mistakenly re-debiting his account when they concluded he hadnt sent them the 
information they requested when it was clear he had.
Mr S says he was affected considerably by not being able to continue his business 
as he wished due to having less funds available to invest. But Im not awarding 
losses for how Mr S company was affected or how he was impacted in relation to his 
business.
Mr S account is a personal account, which has express terms that its not to be used 
for business purposes. So, I dont find it would be appropriate to compensate him for the distress or inconvenience he experienced by not being able to use it for purposes 
outside of the account terms.
Under the dispute resolution rules (DISP) which govern our service, I can only 
consider losses that arise from a qualifying relationship Mr S had with Barclays in 
relation to the account. The company Mr S set up is a separate legal person to him 
and does not have a qualifying relationship with Barclays  it isnt Barclays 
customer, so I am not awarding losses it experienced due to Barclays not refunding 
the disputed payments.
Mr S accepted my provisional outcome. Barclays replied saying they were prepared to 
accept the provisional outcome but asked whether the complaint could be resolved without 
the need for a final decision.
Ive considered Barclays request, but Ive decided to proceed to final decision. This gives Mr 
S the opportunity to accept a final decision which is then legally binding on Barclays  so 
should there be any potential problems later on, Mr S can enforce the decision in court
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. My provisional findings are copied above and now form my findings for this final 
decision.
Putting things right
Subject to Mr S accepting this decision, Barclays need to:
Refund each payment Mr S disputed making, excluding the payments he said were 
made by him which might have been added to the fraud claim unintentionally and 
payments made to Columbian merchants/payees, and add 8 percent simple interest 
per annum on each payment until the date of settlement unless those payments were 
already refunded and not re-debited.
If Barclays considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr S how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Restructure Mr S account as if the disputed payments hadnt been made, refunding 
any interest or charges that wouldnt have been charged but for those payments, 
such as any interest or overdraft charges. And (if they exist) remove any adverse 
credit markers that wouldnt have resulted had the fraudulent payments not debited 
the account.
Pay Mr S £150 for the distress and inconvenience he was caused due to Barclays 
mistakenly re-debiting his account when they concluded he hadnt sent them the 
information they requested when it was clear he had.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr S complaint. I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to put matters right according to my instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman