DRN-4270848
The complaint
Mr F complains he has been treated unfairly by Zopa Limited when it closed its peer to peer 
(P2P) lending platform. He says he hasnt been paid the value of his remaining loans. He 
says his loans were acquired without his consent and without him being paid anything for 
them. 
What happened
Mr F held a P2P lending account for a number of years on Zopas platform and invested 
funds in return for interest. He had received repayment for most of his loans. He says he had 
a small number of remaining loans that had defaulted but were on repayment plans with 
some repayments still being received.   
In December 2021, Zopa advised investors that it would be stopping consumer investments 
and transferring all loans to its newly formed associated company. It proposed to buy loan 
portfolios at current face value (plus any interest that borrowers have already paid up to the 
date of sale). But for loans that were in default it wouldnt make any payments when 
acquiring the loans.  
Mr F complained as he felt this decision treated him unfairly as he was receiving nothing for 
his loans even though recovery action was continuing that could lead to further repayment. 
He didnt agree that his loans had no value and was unhappy that the decision had been 
made without his consent. 
Zopa responded to the complaint but didnt uphold it. It reiterated that loans that have 
operationally defaulted have a £0 face value and therefore will be acquired at this amount.
And said its portfolio analysis shows that the losses from delinquent loans far outweighs any 
future recoveries on the small remaining portfolio of defaulted loans which may be eligible to 
be sold.  It said that not all defaulted loans were eligible for a debt sale, for example in 
situations of bankruptcy or vulnerability. It also said most of the remaining defaults were 
ineligible for sale, so have been written off (not sold) and there is no benefit here for Zopa.
As Mr F was unhappy with Zopas response he referred his complaint to this service for 
independent review. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and upheld it. In 
summary he said by acquiring Mr Fs loans without paying any value, Zopa treated him 
unfairly as his loans had some, albeit small, value. He recommended Zopa should pay Mr F 
25% of the value of his remaining loans as compensation 
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023  this is what I said:
Zopa has provided the reasons why it decided to close its P2P platform to retail customers. 
It says this was essentially due to commercial viability, market conditions and challenges 
brought about by regulation. So, it appears Zopa was exercising its commercial judgement 
when deciding whether its P2P platform was viable on an ongoing basis. This is something it 
is able to do and not something I am able to make judgement on. But I can consider whether 
Mr F has been treated fairly in how his investments have been administered as a result of 
this decision. 
I understand Mr F essentially de-invested from the platform several years before Zopa 
decided to close it. In December 2021, when the decision was communicated to investors, 
the only funds Mr F had left on the platform were valued at approximately £60 and they were 
all in loans that had defaulted. It doesnt appear his account had been actively used for some 
while. 
Mr F has argued that he has been treated unfairly by not being paid anything for his 
outstanding defaulted loans. I understand the point he makes about the principle of the 
potential for future recovery payments to be made  so his defaulted loans still hold some 
value. But I also need to look at the circumstances of his remaining defaulted loans and the 
likelihood of him receiving further money from them had they not be acquired by Zopa. 
Having carefully considered everything  I dont propose to ask Zopa to make any payment 
to Mr F for the following reasons.
Mr F invested a significantly larger amount of money on the platform than the amount 
remaining. Zopa say he had withdrawn nearly £60,000 by 2019, leaving a very small balance 
of funds left. Not only was it a significantly smaller amount of money, the likelihood of 
recovery actions returning much of this money appears to be extremely limited. Zopa say 
there were five defaulted loans left that had all gone into formal recovery many years before 
the portfolio acquisition took place. So, these were loans that had failed to be fully recovered 
despite being in default for many years. I also acknowledge the points made by Zopa 
regarding loans that have been default for some time are unlikely to be eligible for a debt 
sale due to situations of bankruptcy or vulnerability  So, the balance of evidence doesnt 
support the chances of any meaningful future recovery being achieved. It is not unexpected 
that some P2P loans will fail to recover capital as this in an inherent risk of this type of 
investment. 
We recently asked Zopa if there had been any recovery of funds since it acquired the loans 
from Mr F. It confirmed that one of the five loans has made two small repayments in 2022 
and this would have equated to £0.05 of repayments to Mr F. This information suggests if 
there were to be any further recovering the amount that would be due to Mr F is negligible. 
While it isnt possible to make a definite statement on future recovery, on balance, the 
evidence doesnt support that Mr Fs previous loans are likely to pay back much, if anything 
at all. Taking all of these circumstances into account, I dont find Zopas action of acquiring 
Mr Fs loans with a zero value to be unreasonable when considering the position of his loan 
portfolio at the time of acquisition.
Zopa didnt provide any further submissions for me to consider. 
Mr F responded. In summary he said:
- The new evidence Zopa has provided misrepresents the nature of his investments 
He says it is misleading to say he wound down his investment from 2016, rather it is 
more accurate to say following changes made by Zopa to the platform his 
investments matured and were repaid. He clarified that all his funding was on the old 
Zopa platform that Zopa closed in early 2016  and he did not invest in Zopas new 
products. He also said rather than saying he removed nearly all his total withdrawals 
of approximately £58,000 from the platform, a fairer representation is to say £58,000 
of fixed term loans had matured by 2019. 
- Users need to actively login to the account to withdraw funds  this allows Zopa to 
hold onto the money for as long as possible without paying interest.
- After 2019 he was left with a small number of loans that had not been repaid within 
the agreed period. In most cases payment plans were agreed with borrowers and 
repayments continued, albeit, at a very low rate. He thinks the principle that these 
borrowers should repay what he lent them is important.- Zopa admits it continues to receive repayment on his microloans. Even though the 
amounts are small, it is a matter of principle. Zopa has received money that he is 
entitled to and that hasnt been paid to him, so the loans have some value. He hasnt 
declined to continue the contract  so Zopa has treated him unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes considering all of the further submission made by Mr F  alongside everything 
else the parties have provided. 
I note the clarification and further details he has provided about his investment history with 
Zopa. This helps me to understand the reasons behind the investment choices hes made. 
But it doesnt change my overall thinking on whether he has been treated unfairly by Zopa in 
the way it has acquired his defaulted loans. 
I acknowledge the point of principle Mr F makes about the possibility of further recovery and 
his entitlement to this. But based on the available evidence Ive concluded this value is 
negligible  and the likelihood of significant payments is extremely remote. So, the fact Zopa 
acquired the loans without paying Mr F anything doesnt lead me to find he must have been 
treated unfairly.  
Having considered all of the further submissions Mr F has made, I havent found reason to 
change my findings. I do understand Mr Fs strength of feeling about what has happened - 
but I havent found that Zopa need to pay him any compensation. For the reasons above and 
those in my provisional finding, I havent found he hasnt been treated unfairly by Zopa when 
it acquired his loans when closing the platform. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman