DRN-3957937
The complaint
Mr S complained about what happened when he asked a broker at Fairstone Mortgage 
Solutions Ltd to help him remortgage, before his existing mortgage deal expired.
What happened
Mr S said hed applied early to remortgage, in May 2022. He used a broker hed worked with 
before, and secured an offer he was happy with. Mr S said he then got a letter from a legal 
firm (that I wont name here) which he said was about payment. He checked with the broker, 
and was reassured the deal was fee free, so he didnt take any further action. 
Mr S said he didnt hear anything after that. He got in touch with the broker in August, asking 
if things were going ahead, but didnt get any response until he messaged again, in late 
September. Mr S said the broker then told him he needed to speak to the legal firm, and that 
his mortgage wouldnt move until Mr S did this. 
Mr S said he then discovered that the legal firm was waiting for him to sign documents, 
which hed never received because the firm had the wrong email address for him. His 
existing fixed interest rate came to an end at the end of September, and he ended up paying 
his old lenders Standard Variable Rate. 
Mr S said that wasnt fair. Hed acted in good time, and Mr S said that his broker shouldve 
helped when he got in touch in August. Mr S said the mistake with his email address also 
originated with Fairstone. 
Fairstone said Mr S applied for a new mortgage a little over four months before his old 
mortgage deal expired. It said hed given enough time for this work to be done, so it was 
disappointed his new mortgage wasnt yet in place. Fairstone said it would pay the difference 
between Mr Ss fixed rate mortgage repayment and his old lenders SVR, for October. It 
thought his new mortgage would be in place after this. We now know his new mortgage 
completed in late October, about a week after Fairstone wrote to Mr S about his complaint. 
Fairstone said it would have expected Mr S to be in contact with the lenders legal firm, after 
the mortgage offer was issued. It said the firm did write to Mr S in June, but Mr S didnt 
contact the firm then. Fairstone thought that was why his mortgage hadnt yet been finalised. 
But Fairstone did say it thought its advisor could have done more to help Mr S, when he 
contacted it in August to ask how things were going. So it offered Mr S £200 for that. 
Mr S turned this down. He said hed been in the middle of preparing for an important 
interview when he discovered the mistake with his mortgage, and the urgent work to get his 
mortgage application back on track interfered with that. Mr S asked Fairstone to pay £600 
instead, and when it said no, Mr S asked our service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Fairstone had to do more than it had offered. He said Fairstones 
advisor had told Mr S there would be legal work to do once the offer was issued, so Mr S 
shouldve been aware hed need to engage with solicitors. He then got a letter from the legal 
firm, saying theyd emailed him an introduction pack, and asking him to complete documents 
from that pack. Although there was confusion around the mention of a £95 fee, our 
investigator thought the letter was clear that Mr S needed to act on an email, so he should 
have got in touch with the firm, when he didnt receive that. 
Our investigator said that Fairstone accepted it gave Mr Ss lender the wrong email address. 
But the offer it made put Mr S back in the position hed have been in, if that mistake hadnt 
been made. 
Our investigator noted that Mr S told us this application had caused him stress, and 
interfered with his preparation for an interview, but he said that any mortgage application 
comes with some level of stress, and some of this could have been avoided if Mr S had 
contacted the legal firm when he received their letter. And Fairstone also suggested he 
contact them. So, on balance, our investigator said he thought Fairstones offer was fair.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he didnt think wed taken account of the fact that he was ignored 
by the broker at least twice. Because Mr S wanted his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, this case was then passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I understand that Mr S feels hed done enough to make sure his new mortgage was in place 
by the time his old deal expired, but unfortunately, hed only completed part of the process. 
He needed to complete some paperwork for the legal firm working for his lender. I also 
understand that it wasnt Mr Ss mistake which meant he didnt receive this paperwork right 
away  the lender had been given the wrong email address by Fairstone. But Mr S did get a 
letter which told him to expect forms to complete. And he didnt follow up on that with the 
firm, when that email didnt turn up. 
I know Mr S did get back in touch with his broker in August, and didnt receive a reply to his 
messages then. But I still think that its the fact Mr S didnt follow up on the letter with the 
legal firm, which is the main reason why Mr Ss mortgage wasnt agreed in time. 
Fairstone has offered to pay the difference between Mr Ss mortgage and his old lenders 
SVR. I think that puts Mr S largely back in the position hed have been in, if his mortgage 
had completed in time. 
But Mr S says that doesnt make up for the stress he experienced at the time, when he found 
out his new mortgage wasnt in place. He said he twice had to stop preparations for an 
important interview, to prepare and post paperwork to the legal firm. 
I dont think its Fairstones fault that the first set of paperwork Mr S prepared and sent to the 
legal firm was lost in the post. So, considering that, and that Mr S did unfortunately miss an 
opportunity to avoid the problems here, I do think that a payment of £200 from Fairstone 
makes up for the part it played in what went wrong, and the impact that had on Mr S. 
I understand part or all of this offer may not yet have been paid, so Ill award that now, but Ill 
allow Fairstone to offset against this award any payment it has already made.My final decision
My final decision is that Fairstone Mortgage Solutions Ltd must pay Mr S the difference 
between what Mr S was charged for his mortgage for September 2022, on his old lenders 
Standard Variable Rate, and the amount he would have been charged for that month, if his 
new mortgage deal had been in place on 1 September 2022. Fairstone Mortgage Solutions 
Ltd must also pay Mr S £200 in compensation. Fairstone Mortgage Solutions Ltd may offset 
against this award any payment it has already made to Mr S for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman