DRN-3664432
The complaint
Mrs R has complained to Phoenix Life Limited about the sale of a personal pension plan that 
was used to contract her out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). Mrs 
R says shes unhappy because she wasnt told it was a personal pension. 
What happened
In 1988, Mrs R was at a friends house when she was advised to contract out of SERPS by 
an adviser that worked for Britannic. That advice is now the responsibility of Phoenix so for 
ease Ill refer to Phoenix going forward. 
The available paperwork shows that at the time of the sale Mrs R was 21 years old, 
employed and earning £7000 per annum. 
The adviser arranged for Mrs R to be contracted out of SERPS with effect from the previous 
tax-year. The plan was invested in a with-profits fund and it received SERPS rebates until 
2006.
In 2022, Mrs R complained to Phoenix about the sale of the plan. She said the adviser told 
her that everyone was contracting out because there wouldnt be a state pension when she 
retired. And she was told that she didnt need to do anything with the plan, the paperwork 
could just be put in a drawer and forgotten about. Mrs R says she wasnt told it was a 
pension and the adviser took advantage of her because she was young and wasnt educated 
about pensions.
Phoenix rejected the complaint. It said the recommendation to contract out of SERPS in 
1988 had been suitable. And it said it hadnt seen evidence to suggested the policy had 
been misrepresented in any way. 
Mrs R referred the matter to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators. 
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary he said he thought the advice to 
contract out of SERPS was suitable, based on Mrs Rs circumstances at the time. 
Mrs R didnt accept the investigators opinion and she maintained that her plan was mis-sold. 
In summary she said she wasnt told that the plan was a personal pension or that she could 
pay into it. And she said that Phoenix had recently confirmed over the phone that her plan is 
a SERPS only plan. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed matters, I agree with the investigators view, and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
The advice was provided to Mrs R in 1988. At the time, Phoenix was a member of the Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). LAUTRO required members 
to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal with investors fairly. Members were 
required to consider the investors financial position generally and to all other relevant 
circumstances when giving advice, but there was no requirement to complete a fact-find or 
issue a recommendation later. So, there is very little documentation relating to the advice.
But overall, taking into account what I know about Mrs Rs circumstances at the time, I 
havent seen anything that makes me think the advice Mrs R was given about contracting 
out of SERPS was unsuitable for her.
When the government decided to allow individuals to contract-out of SERPS, incentives 
were offered to encourage them to do so. No guidance was provided to firms about who 
should be advised to remain in SERPS or who was likely to benefit from contracting out. So 
pension providers actuaries carried out comparisons of the projected benefits from SERPS 
with those from alternative personal pension arrangements. The calculations were based on 
what were considered to be relatively conservative assumptions of future investment returns 
at the time.
Those that contracted out of SERPS received rebates into personal pension plan from the 
government. The rebates were set in such a way that it was generally more attractive for 
younger people to contract-out than those who were older. The ages where advice changed 
about whether to contract-out or not were called pivotal ages. In 1988, Phoenixs pivotal 
age for women was 35. So, it considered that females under 35 were likely to be better off by 
contracting out. This was because they had a sufficiently long investment horizon to achieve 
growth on the rebates paid to them by the government. Mrs R was 21 at the time of the 
advice, so she was significantly below the pivotal age for women, meaning there was 
substantial time and opportunity for investment growth before she would likely retire.
Another factor used to determine whether someone was likely to be better off contracting-out 
of SERPS was their amount of earnings. The application form confirmed that Mrs Rs income 
was around £7,000 per year. At the time, because the government was offering a 2% 
incentive to contract out, Phoenix didnt set a minimum level of earnings. But when the 
incentive was removed in 1993/1994, the minimum level of earnings was £5,000 per year. 
Given Mrs Cs earnings in 1988 were £7000 a year, I think her earnings were sufficiently 
high enough to ensure that rebates forwarded by the government would cover the plan 
charges.
Ive also considered the fact that there was some investment risk attached to Mrs Rs 
pension plan and she did not appear to have previous investment experience. Contracting 
out of SERPS meant that Mrs R would be giving up her entitlement to SERPS in the hope 
that the contributions would grow in excess of the pension she couldve expected to receive 
from the state. There is no record of Mrs Rs attitude to risk, but the contributions were 
invested into the with-profits fund, which was considered to be a cautious fund at the time. I 
havent seen anything to suggest Mrs R was unable to take any risk with these funds. So, I 
dont think the arrangement was too risky for her, given that she had almost 40 years before 
she could start to think about retiring and so she had time to recoup any losses.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mrs R met the criteria at the time and I think there was a 
reasonable prospect that she could have been better off by contracting-out from SERPS. For 
this reason, I dont think the advice from Phoenix here was unsuitable.
Ive also considered what Mrs R has said about not being told she was taking out a pension 
or that she could make personal contributions to the plan. I wasnt there when the plan was sold so I dont know what was discussed. Ive therefore 
taken account of Mrs Rs testimony and Ive considered the available paperwork. 
I can see that the application form and illustration both refer to the plan as being a personal 
pension. I know Mrs R says that the adviser must have covered the wording. But its also 
mentioned in the declaration Mrs R signed and I think its likely she has received annual 
statements referring to her plan as a pension.  
But even if she didnt know the plan was a pension, it seems she knew it was to be used to 
contract out of SERPS and that the money would be invested. So even if she wasnt 
specifically told it was a pension plan, Im satisfied she knew what the plan was being used 
for. And as Ive said above, at the time the plan was sold, I dont think it was unsuitable 
advice for Mrs R to contract of out of SERPS. It wasnt unusual for these types of plans to 
only receive SERPS rebates into them. So although they were personal pension plans, they 
were often referred to as SERPS only plans. So I dont think the business was wrong to have 
referred to it as a SERPS only plan when Mrs R called it recently, particularly as the plan 
only received SERPS rebates. 
I know Mrs R says that she didnt know she could also make personal contributions into the 
plan. However, I dont think this means the plan was mis-sold, particularly as Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Mrs R would actually have wanted to make personal contributions in 
any event. 
I think its important for me to recognise Mrs Rs strength of feeling about this matter and I 
realise she will be disappointed with my decision to not uphold her complaint. But I dont 
think the plan was unsuitable for her at the time of advice. So Im not asking Phoenix to take 
any action. 
This brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve her dispute with Phoenix informally, can 
do for her. Im sorry we cant help Mrs R any further with this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 
18 April 2023.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman