DRN-2103607
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him life and critical illness cover. He feels it 
was unsuitable for his circumstances and would like the premiums refunded, with interest. 
Hes also questioned the lack of ongoing correspondence and a failure by Lloyds to change 
his address in its records. 
 
What happened
Mr M was recommended a Mortgage and Business Cover policy (MBC) and a level term 
assurance (LTA) policy in 2000. He feels they were unsuitable as he was single with no 
dependents at the time. 
When he met with Lloyds adviser, he already had a mortgage in place with another provider. 
This was for £34,000 with a term of just under 23 years remaining. It appears the mortgage 
was covered by a decreasing critical illness cover policy. 
Following discussions about Mr Ms needs and circumstances he was recommended two 
new policies that would, in combination, provide him with life and critical illness cover. 
Although slightly more expensive policies were initially recommended, Mr M ultimately opted 
for the LTA providing £34,000 of critical illness cover for a term of 30 years to take him to 
age 60, and the MBC providing £34,000 of life cover, matching the remaining term of the 
mortgage on a decreasing basis.
In 2019 Mr M complained to Lloyds about the potential unsuitability of the policies but Lloyds 
didnt uphold the complaint. It felt the documentation from the time supported a conclusion 
that Mr M had approached Lloyds for advice, received a suitable recommendation and been 
given fully detailed information about the policies. 
Lloyds also noted that any death in service benefit that Mr M mightve had at the time 
wouldnt have been considered as suitable protection, as it wouldnt have been guaranteed 
to remain in place for the duration of the mortgage. It also noted that it was usual for no 
further documentation to be sent to a policyholder in the case of term assurance, such as 
Mr Ms policies.
Mr M didnt accept Lloyds view and referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
reached broadly the same conclusion as Lloyds  that the policies had been suitable. She 
noted that the factfind completed at the time had recorded Mr M as being married and while 
this may not have been accurate, it was reasonable that this was the basis on which the 
adviser made their recommendation. The investigator also highlighted that Mr M had chosen 
to deviate from the advisers initial suggestions, indicating that he made an informed choice 
and had a reasonable understanding of what was being proposed.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators view. He said the adviser wouldve known he wasnt 
married and may have recorded him as such in order to make the sale compliant. And in any 
event, if hed been married the advice shouldve been given jointly. He accepted that the 
critical illness cover wouldve been suitable for someone who was single with no dependents 
but didnt accept that the life cover had been necessary. 
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, the matters been referred to 
me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for generally the 
same reasons. Mr M appears to have accepted that the critical illness cover wouldve been 
suitable for someone who was single with no dependents, as he says he was at the time. 
And Id agree with that. It appears he already had cover of that sort in place and that the 
process he went through with the adviser was a reasonable reassessment of the types of 
cover he might want and need in his circumstances. 
In the event that Mr M wasnt married at the time of the advice, despite it having been noted 
he was in the documentation that he was party to completing, then there is an argument that 
life cover wouldve been less attractive. But, as the investigator noted, the documentation 
from the sale indicates a pro-active involvement from Mr M and decisions made on his part 
as to what type and level cover he wanted. 
While life cover may not have been a priority for him at the time, theres no absolute reason 
why it shouldnt be taken out in a situation where theres not yet any co-dependents. Theres 
every likelihood that circumstances will change and a need for life cover will develop over 
time. 
As noted, death in services benefits are not usually seen as a suitable way to cover a liability 
like a mortgage because theyre not guaranteed to remain in place for the term of the 
mortgage. And in respect of continuing correspondence, statements arent normally sent for 
term assurance products, as the details remain constant from the outset. And Lloyds has 
confirmed that Mr Ms address details are all up-to-date.  
In summary, Im satisfied the policies recommended to Mr M were suitable and that Lloyds 
acted correctly and reasonably in its dealings with him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman