DRN-1676218
The complaint
Miss Hs unhappy Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited have turned down her 
claim on her insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H took out a policy for her puppy who she got on 9 September 2019. She had to take 
her puppy to the vet a few times, the first being 12 September 2019, because her pet was 
dragging his bum on the floor. At the end of October her puppy got an infection and needed 
antibiotics, and at the end of November the vet sent off a swab for testing  which came 
back clear.
Miss H submitted a claim for these tests, but Red Sands turned it down saying the vet had 
confirmed the condition being claimed for began on 11 September 2019. And they quoted a 
policy term that says, under what wont be covered, any claims made for Any illness that 
first shows clinical signs within 14 days of the commencement date. 
Miss Hs vet got in touch with Red Sands, explaining they understood the claim had been 
turned down because it was recorded her puppy had a problem with his anal glands on 21 
September 2019. The vet went on to say Miss H had concerns regarding a potential anal 
gland problem, she bought her puppy into the surgery on several occasions for this issue  
but their records do not show any indicationhad any signs of infection of his anal glands 
on 21 September or on any subsequent visits to the surgery. 
Red Sands reconsidered the claim, taking into account the above information, but still didnt 
meet the claim, so Miss H complained. Red Sands replied and set out what they said were 
the relevant history which showed her puppy had been treated for infected anal glands. They 
then set out the policy terms, explaining theyd exclude any illness or condition, if symptoms 
or signs are noted, or a diagnosis is made, during the 14-day waiting period at the start of 
the policy. Because of that, they said the claim had been turned down correctly, and theyd 
placed an exclusion on Miss Hs policy effective from 9 September 2019 excluding all claims 
relating to the anal and perineal region.
Unhappy with this Miss H asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so and 
found that the first signs of the condition were within 14 days, so felt Red Sands had acted 
fairly in turning down the claim and adding the exclusion to Miss Hs policy.
Miss H didnt agree with this. She felt there were no signs of any issues before her puppy 
was diagnosed with the infection. Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain I need to carefully consider the terms of the policy Miss H took 
out to see if Red Sands should be paying out on her claim. If the policy terms say they 
wouldnt pay, then its unlikely Id order them to pay out. And, for the reasons Ill go on to 
explain, I think Red Sands have acted fairly.
Red Sands have relied on a term which essentially says any conditions which is there or 
showed clinical signs or symptoms during the first 14 days of the policy wont be covered. 
This is set out in several different documents Miss H was provided with before she took out 
the policy, and Im satisfied Red Sands did enough to make her aware of this. So, I need to 
decide if I think Miss Hs claim falls within this first 14 days or not.
The policy started on 9 September 2019, so, if there were any clinical signs between then 
and 23 September 2019 then itd be fair for Red Sands to turn down the claim.
To help me establish when the first clinical signs or symptoms showed Ive looked carefully 
at the vets notes that have been provided. These notes show, for the relevant 14-day period:
11 September 2019  examination with the vet reporting everything is normal.
12 September 2019  Miss H called to say her puppy had been scraping his bum and 
doesnt want to eat much.
13 September 2019  Miss H returned the vets call and said her puppy seemed fine 
now after worming him.
21 September 2019  the vet has recorded Appointment Notes: anal glands and 
written that Miss H noticed a fishy smell, and that its normal for dogs to express their 
anal glands from time to time.
Following this, on 15 October the vet has recorded Miss H thinks her puppy has infected 
anal glands and then on 24 October to say they were still a problem.
Miss H when contacting us said her puppy got the infection on 26 October  and the claim 
form sent to Red Sands talks about procedures related to anal glands.
I understand Miss Hs frustration with Red Sands turning down her claim  as her claim is for 
the infection her puppy got at the end of October  around five weeks after shed taken out 
the policy. But I think the policy terms are clear in saying they wont pay out on claims which 
showed clinical signs or symptoms of the condition claimed for if made within 14 days of 
taking out the policy.
Ive noted the vet has said Miss Hs puppy didnt show any signs of infection on 21 
September or on other visits. But this isnt supported by the notes recorded which say on 13 
September her puppy had been scraping his bum on the floor  which is a clinical sign of an 
anal gland infection. And the notes recorded on 21 September say its to discuss the anal 
glands, and Miss H has noticed a smell  which is another clinical sign of this condition.
Ive also considered the exclusion Red Sands have placed on the policy. Ive seen Red 
Sands underwriting guide  its commercially sensitive so I cant share it, but Im satisfied 
with the information it contains.
It says for the condition of anal gland infection they would place an exclusion on the policy 
for anything in the anal and perineal regions. So, I think theyve applied this fairly as well.Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Red Sands provided Miss H with enough 
information to make her aware of 14-day exclusion at the start of the policy. Im also satisfied 
based on the information provided Red Sands have turned down this claim fairly, as there 
were two different clinical signs of the condition claimed for.  And Im satisfied Red Sands 
have added the exclusion to her policy fairly.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman