DRN-3058035
The complaint
Mr R complains Aviva Insurance Limited havent handled a claim on his motor insurance 
policy properly leading to him incurring storage charges.
  
What happened
On 27 December 2020 Mr R had a car accident and reported it to Aviva the following day. 
Mr R says Aviva told him theyd recover his car from where it was. He said as the car wasnt 
driveable, he needed to arrange a place to store the car. Mr R was charged £70 a day to 
store the car and says Aviva were negligent as they didnt recover it. So, on 4 January 2021 
he asked them why theyd not yet recovered his car, and says he was told Aviva had 
instructed someone to collect it. The car was eventually collected on 12 January by Aviva. 
Mr R says he had to pay £1,200 himself for storage, which he paid in cash, and complained 
to Aviva about this.
Aviva replied to the complaint and accepted there was a two-and-a-half-week delay in 
collecting Mr Rs car. For this they offered £100 compensation but didnt mention the storage 
charges.
Mr R didnt accept this, saying he wanted them to cover the storage charges as well, and 
when they didnt, he asked us to look into things. 
One of our Investigators did so, and felt Aviva were responsible for the delays. So, he said 
they should refund the full storage costs of £1,200, pay 8% interest on that amount, as well 
as paying the £100 compensation theyd previously awarded. 
Aviva didnt accept this. They ask how is it Mr R happened to have enough money on him to 
pay for this in cash, and ask how he went home and back again as his car wasnt driveable.
Because Aviva didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Following their complaint response, Aviva had asked Mr R some questions, which hed not 
responded to as he felt it was quite stressful. But, I felt Avivas questions were reasonable, 
so asked that he answer my questions, which were quite similar in nature to Avivas.
Did Aviva tell you they were going to collect your car. If not, what did they say? If they 
did, what happened after that as we know they didnt collect it?
Mr R said as its been a long time, he has no records of this, but says he contacted Aviva the 
next day, and they said theyd arrange collection in two to three days. So, in the meantime 
he had it stored. He says he did tell them it wasnt driveable. He said hed told them hed 
arranged storage, and they replied saying thats fine theyll pay the storage charges.
Please explain who collected your car from the roadside and transported it  and how 
you found out about this company / person?
A family member recommended this private recovery truck who charged for recovering it. 
And the family member also had the storage persons number who was kind enough to 
assist him and provide storage.
We provided Mr Rs replies to Aviva and asked for their comments as well as a copy of the 
original report. Aviva supplied the report and said that Mr R didnt say the car was in storage 
when they spoke on 29 December 2020.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain that if a financial business such as Aviva have caused a 
consumer such as Mr R a financial loss, then wed usually expect them to put that right.
The initial report completed by Mr R says the car isnt driveable. Ive not been provided with 
any specific notes that appear to show Aviva attempting to engage Mr R on this point  by 
for example asking him whatd happened and making arrangements to collect his car as Id 
usually expect. So, I dont think Aviva have acted correctly here.
Aviva dispute Mr R told them the car was in storage until he got in touch on 4 January 2021. 
But, that cant be true as one of their internal notes say:
Chat in fromfromadvising BS has appointed 3 different recovery agents for recovery 
however none of them will travel toto collect PHV (policy holder vehicle). She wanted to 
know ifcan be instructed if possible?
This note was recorded on 31 December 2020. So, based on this, it appears Aviva knew by 
the latest 31 December they needed to recover Mr Rs car  and theyd tried at least three 
different companies at this time. No further notes have been provided on this, but given 
theyd tried to get three different companies at this time it could suggest this had been going 
on for at least a day or more.
Taking all of that into account, its not clear to me exactly when Aviva knew Mr Rs car 
needed to be collected  but I do think that was their responsibility to have established as 
early as possible and they didnt.
Ive noted theyve got concerns over how Mr Rs car came to be where it was stored. And I 
do agree that £1,200 storage costs are high  and its slightly unusual Mr R paid for these 
costs in cash. But, these costs were paid for after the car had been picked up (not, as Aviva 
seemed to suggest at one point, at the time of it first being stored there). And, an invoice has 
been provided for these costs.
I dont find Mr Rs responses to the questions asked unreasonable, in that a family knew of 
this option to have someone to store their car. And I note Aviva issued their final response to 
Mr Rs complaint in January, but didnt ask Mr R any questions about whatd happened until 
March. I dont know why, but this could suggest they hadnt looked into matters properly 
initially.
Overall I do understand why Aviva may have some reservations. But as Ive found theyve 
made errors leading to these costs, and theyve not provided enough to make me think these 
costs havent legitimately been incurred, theyll need to pay them. Theyll also need to 
include interest on this amount at 8% from the date of payment to the date of settlement as 
Mr R has been unreasonably deprived of this money.I also think the £100 compensation Aviva previously awarded is fair for their delays. So, 
theyll need to pay that too.
Putting things right
I require Aviva to:
Pay Mr Rs invoice dated 12 January 2021 for £1,200
Add 8% interest* from the date of the invoice, to the date of settlement
Pay Mr R £100 compensation
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Aviva to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to above. Aviva must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if he 
asks them for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to carry out the actions in the 
Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman