DRN-1360411
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about Bank of Scotland plcs treatment of him when he tried to arrange a 
new interest rate on his mortgage.
What happened
Mr C had an interest-only mortgage with Bank of Scotland on a fixed interest rate until the 
end of April 2019. Before the fixed rate ended, he asked the bank for a new deal, to avoid 
having to pay interest at the banks standard variable rate (SVR).
The bank said it wanted to know more about Mr Cs circumstances before offering him a new 
rate  including how he proposed to repay the mortgage at the end of the term and his 
financial situation. Mr C wasnt happy about that and complained. He also said he had made 
a complaint about the same thing in 2016 and brought it to this service. We had upheld his 
complaint and he had received compensation for overpaid interest as well as the impact on 
him. 
The bank said it wasnt trying to make things difficult for Mr C. But it wanted to know more 
about his situation in order to see whether a new rate would be in his best interests.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said it was reasonable for 
the bank to want to understand Mr Cs circumstances before offering him a new product  
and it had had a discussion with him before arranging a new fixed rate following his 
complaint in 2016. But it couldnt do that now because Mr C had since moved his mortgage 
elsewhere. 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He thought the investigator hadnt taken 
account of his particular circumstances, and he still felt the bank had treated him very 
unfairly and caused him unnecessary costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C wanted a new rate on his mortgage. He didnt want to borrow any more money, or alter 
the term of the mortgage, for example. In these circumstances, under the rules of mortgage 
regulation, the bank didnt have to assess his repayment strategy or his overall financial 
situation. Its overarching obligation was to consider whether a product switch would be in Mr 
Cs best interests.
Taking a new fixed or discounted rate would have been considerably cheaper than paying 
interest at the banks SVR  so I can see that it is most likely to have been in Mr Cs best 
interests to switch. However, while the bank didnt have to look at the affordability of the 
mortgage and how Mr C eventually intended to repay it, theres nothing to say it mustnt do 
so.I share the investigators view that it was reasonable for the bank to want to know more 
about Mr Cs situation before agreeing a new rate. That would have helped it decide whether 
a switch would have been in his best interests. I am also mindful that the regulator expects 
lenders to stay in touch with interest-only borrowers to make sure their mortgages are on 
track to be repaid, and a product switch is a good opportunity to do that. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that the bank would have made offering Mr C a new rate conditional on 
him taking any particular action it might suggest; it simply wanted to take the opportunity to 
review how things stood, and I think thats not unreasonable.
I have noted what Mr C has said about how difficult and stressful this matter has been, as 
well as about the costs he has incurred in re-mortgaging elsewhere. But I think the bank was 
clear with him that it was prepared to discuss his situation with him and then look at a new 
rate. It didnt refuse his request for a new rate and, in response to his complaint, it gave him 
details of specific staff members he could contact. I think that was reasonable, and 
recognised that Mr C is in a particularly difficult situation because he is unwell.
In all the circumstances, I find I cant fairly require the bank to pay Mr C any compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Janet Millington
Ombudsman