DRN-2005556
 
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the service she received from Santander UK Plc in relation to a 
disputed transaction on her credit card.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview here. 
In April 2019 Mrs G made an online booking for a hotel. She believed she was paying 
around 83 Euros but she was actually charged over £700. Mrs G disputed this with 
Santander. 
Initially Santanders fraud team considered the matter and held Mrs G liable for the 
transaction. Mrs G disagreed with this and submitted further information in May 2019. 
Santander stood by the decision of their fraud team and considered the possibility of either 
Section 75 or chargeback claims. They asked for further information from Mrs G which she 
explained shed already submitted to the fraud team. Santander insisted it was sent in again. 
Ultimately on reconsidering the information, Santander agreed to refund Mrs G the amount 
in dispute. They also agreed that theyd provided poor service and paid a total of £80 in 
compensation. Mrs G referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators looked into 
the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He felt the £80 compensation was fair in 
the circumstances. Mrs G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. 
I considered the complaint and didnt think that the £80 was fair for the trouble and upset 
experienced. I asked Santander to increase this by a further £100 to make £180 in total. 
Santander agreed and this offer was shared with Mrs G. Mrs G still doesnt believe this fairly 
compensates her. She thinks that a further £500 would be an acceptable amount. 
As an agreement couldnt be found, the complaint has come back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think that a further £100 is a fair amount to resolve this complaint. I 
know Mrs G feels very strongly about this, so Ill explain why. 
Mrs G has made considerable submissions in bringing this complaint. Ive considered these 
and have read everything shes sent in but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. So if I 
dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel the need to reference it to explain my decision. I 
hope Mrs G doesnt take this as a discourtesy, it is just a reflection of the informal nature of 
our service. 
Mrs G was clearly upset at being held liable for the transaction in the first instance. She also 
wants me to direct Santander to write to her with an apology. Ive considered this and Im not 
going to direct that they do. Santander apologised to Mrs G in a letter dated 7 June 2019. I 
know Mrs G feels that apology wasnt broad enough and didnt cover all she feels theyve 
done. But if I were to direct Santander to make a further apology, Im not persuaded it would 
be considered sincere or meaningful in the circumstances if it were being made solely 
because Id directed that they do so. 
Its accepted by both parties that the service provided by Santander wasnt up to standard. 
So Im not going to repeat in detail all thats gone on. In essence, Santander eventually 
decided not to hold Mrs G liable for the payment in question. But they had the information to 
enable them to make that decision some time before they did so. Mrs G also had to send in 
further information and spent considerable time trying to resolve matters. 
I agree with Mrs G that the £80 compensation she received prior to bringing her complaint to 
us was insufficient to compensate her for the impact this had. This is why I increased it by a 
further £100. Ive carefully thought about all that Mrs G has said in response to the informal 
outcome I proposed. But Im not persuaded that this amount needs to be increased further.
Mrs G was refunded the transaction she disputed and if she accepts this decision will have 
received a total of £180 for the trouble and upset she was put to. I maintain that this is a fair 
resolution to this complaint and Im not going to tell Santander they need to do more. 
Putting things right
To put things right Santander must take the actions detailed below. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Unless theyve already done so, Santander UK Plc must pay Mrs G a further £100 (to make 
£180 in total) to compensate for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman