DRN-1611770
Complaint
Mrs O says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to 
her.                     
Background
This complaint is about eight high-cost short term credit instalment loans that Satsuma 
provided to Mrs O from April 2013 onwards. Mrs Os last loan was provided in November 
2016. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Os complaint and thought that she shouldnt have been 
provided with any of her loans. Satsuma didnt respond to our adjudicators assessment. So 
the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs O 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mrs O, I think that Satsuma should reasonably have seen that Mrs O was unlikely to have been able to make her 
payments in a sustainable manner when it provided these loans. 
I say this because the information Satsuma itself obtained before providing loans 1, 2 and 3 
suggested that Mrs Os income was unlikely to be able to allow her to repay these loans 
without borrowing further or experiencing undue financial difficulty. The loan payments were 
taking up a significant proportion of Mrs O income and left her very little to meet her normal 
living costs and other reasonable expenses. Indeed the combined payments for loans 2 and 
3 even appear to exceed the disposable income Satsuma had recorded for Mrs O.
I also think that by the time of loan 4 Mrs Os pattern of borrowing was indicative of her loans 
having become unsustainable for her. She was provided with new loans despite not having 
repaid previous ones. This pattern of borrowing went on to continue over an extended 
number of loans and over a period of approaching four years. Im not persuaded that Mrs O 
having repaid these loans means that they were sustainable for her or that it was fair and 
reasonable for Satsuma to have provided them in the first place.
Mrs O had to pay interest and charges on loans that Satsuma shouldnt have provided her 
with. So I think that she lost out and Satsuma should put things right.
Putting things right  what Satsuma needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mrs O paid on her loans;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
any adverse information about loans 1 to 3 (should it remain) should be removed 
from Mrs Os credit file and all reference to loans 4 to 8 should be completely 
removed from Mrs Os credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mrs Os complaint. Provident Personal Credit 
Limited should pay Mrs O compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman