DRN-2239839
The complaint
Mr B complains Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (trading as Santander) provided him with a 
car not of satisfactory quality. He wants it to take the car back and cancel the agreement 
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision, for clarity I 
repeat it here.
Mr B took out a conditional sale agreement for a used car on 12 April 2019. The car was 
around 10 years old and had travelled around 83,491 miles at the point of sale. He says in 
September 2019, he contacted the dealership about a gearbox warning light that had 
appeared on his dashboard. Mr B says the dealership told him that it was a battery issue and 
he needed to charge the battery, which he did, and he says the gearbox warning light 
disappeared. But his car broke down in December 2019 due to a gearbox failure. Mr B 
complained to Santander and says he has been unable to use the car since. 
Mr B says he contacted the dealership but was advised it didnt have the facility to diagnose 
the fault and so Mr B had the car towed from the dealership to Audi. It inspected the car, it 
noted the mileage was 94,600 and provided a report which listed the following faults:
 Gearbox oil level too low, faults with gearbox speed sensors and gear select switch.
Only recommended repair due to age and mileage would be a replacement gearbox
 Both front c links perished
 Centre exhaust clamp excessively corroded
 Wiper blades, off side and near side front need replacing
 Cambelt due  cambelt overdue
 Others including, engine oil level top up, screen wash level low, transmission oil
change due, rear brakes pad worn 70% and brake fluid due
The dealership said it offered to inspect the car as gesture of goodwill, but Mr
B was away from home at the time, so it suggested he take the car to a
mechanic local to him for a diagnostic to be carried out and if a fault was found it would 
cover the diagnostic fee. The dealership say that they didnt hear from Mr B following this.
Mr B complained to Santander. It investigated the complaint and instructed Automotive 
Consulting Engineers Ltd (ACE) to carry out an independent inspection report on 21 January 
2020. It confirmed the mileage at 94,600 and the report detailed the following faults:
 We could not road test the vehicle due to the vehicle having no drive selection
 We would not do a brake test, but we carried out a visual inspection of the brake
discs and pads, which were all showing uneven wear of the surface and a slight
slipping but were all in a serviceable condition.
 We can confirm that both the nearside and offside top and bottom C link brushes
were worn and split but would not have been developing at the point of purchase.
 In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that the vehicle has
suffered from complete gearbox failure which would require further investigation with
dismantling under workshop conditions to determine the exact cause of the fault and
extent of the damage.
 Taking into consideration the time and mileage elapsed since finance inception, we
consider on the balance of probability the faults would not have been present at that
time.
 We do confirm the faults to be wear and tear related and maintenance which have
developed since purchase but will require further investigations and dismantling under 
workshop conditions.
Santander rejected the complaint on the basis that they hadnt been provided with any 
information from Mr B to suggest that the current faults would have been present when he 
purchased the car.
Mr B remained dissatisfied. He says he also had a 12-month warranty from the dealership to 
over repairs and that it had offered him £500 towards them. The dealership confirmed Mr B 
took out a 12-month breakdown warranty which was free when he purchased the car. 
They've confirmed that the claim limit is £500. The dealership pointed to the 'Customers 
Obligations', it states 'The vehicle must be maintained in line with the Manufacturer's 
recommended service schedule'. This document also states, 'Please remember if 12 months 
warranty your car must be serviced every six months or six thousand miles'. The dealership 
has said if the car hasn't been serviced in line with the guidelines, this would make the 
warranty void. 
An investigator looked into things for Mr B. She found evidence from both parties of a 
significant fault with the car. She said although the independent inspection didnt say what 
had led the gearbox to fail, overall given the age of the vehicle and the distance travelled she 
thought it more probable than not that the fault was a result of wear and tear rather than 
inherent at the point of sale. She investigated the warranty. Initially the dealership said Mr B 
had a 3month warranty and when the car failed it was outside the 3 months. It then agreed it 
was in fact a 12-month warranty, but this required Mr B to have the car serviced at 6 months 
or 6,000 miles. As Mr B hadnt done this, she found the warranty would be null and void and 
so she couldnt fairly ask the dealership to cover the repairs under the warranty. She 
understood the dealership had offered to pay the £60 diagnostic fee, which she thought was 
fair and reasonable. She said she understood Mr B had been through some very difficult 
personal circumstances and had suffered poor health, but she didnt find any evidence of a 
fault at the point of sale and so didnt ask Santander to do anything further.
Mr B disagreed. He asked for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional decision I looked at all the information from both parties afresh. I reached a 
different decision to our investigator. 
I explained Mr B acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. The hire purchase 
agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result, our service can look 
into complaints about it. The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should 
have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person 
would regard as acceptable, considering factors such as the age and mileage of the car, the 
price paid, fitness for purpose and safety and durability. 
In this case the car was a high-end vehicle, was 10 years old and had travelled around 
83,491 miles. I said its fair to say that in these circumstances, a reasonable person would 
expect that parts of the car might have already suffered a degree of wear and tear. And 
theres a greater risk this car might need repair and/or maintenance sooner than a younger 
car or one which had travelled less. I explained under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault arises within the first 6 
months, its generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one 
attempt at repair. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. I said I could 
see Mr B reported a warning light stating gearbox malfunction continues driving came on 
the dashboard in September 2019, this would be some five months into his finance 
agreement. When he contacted the dealership, it advised him to charge the battery but didnt 
inspect the car suggesting warning lights can appear when the battery charge is low. 
As far as I could see theres no dispute here that the car has failed completely due to a 
gearbox fault and there are several other faults identified. So, I went on to consider whether 
the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. I explained Id done this because the 
mere presence of a fault in a used car does not necessarily mean the car was not of 
satisfactory quality. 
Santander relied on the ACE report when it says theres no evidence of an inherent fault at 
the point of sale. But I found the report doesnt give a definitive response in relation to the 
gearbox failure. It says:
 
 In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that the vehicle has
suffered from complete gearbox failure which would require further investigation with
dismantling under workshop conditions to determine the exact cause of the fault and
extent of the damage.
I said to my knowledge, the gearbox hasnt been dismantled under workshop conditions to 
determine the exact cause. I said Id thought about what a reasonable person would expect 
if a 10-year-old car with 83,941 had been purchased and had suffered a complete gearbox 
failure within 8 months. Santander and the dealership pointed out Mr B has travelled 11,000 
miles in the car and asserts this wouldnt be possible if there was an inherent fault present at 
the point of sale. I said I didnt think its analysis was an accurate depiction of the facts.
Mr B reported a warning light on the dashboard within 5 months. I said I appreciated the 
dealership said when the battery was charged the warning light disappeared, adding, this 
can happen sometimes. I found this point to be tenuous given the warning light related to the 
same component as the complete failure a few months later. The dealership also initially 
disputed this contact from Mr B, but I was persuaded he did speak with dealership as he 
gave this service the name of the person he spoke with and the dealership has since 
confirmed this is a mechanic employed by the. So, I found the problem was identified within 
six months. It didnt prevent Mr B from driving the car thats correct, but the problem was 
there.
I explained although this was a used car it still must be roadworthy when supplied. The 
gearbox is a vital component. Mr B says he was told the car had been serviced when he 
bought it. Even with a 10-year-old car, I said I wouldnt expect it to fail completely. I 
understand Mr B has travelled 11,000 miles but I didnt find that excessive, so to suggest the 
complete failure of the gearbox is as a result of wear and tear seems less likely to me. On 
balance, I said I found it more likely there was a fault present or developing at the point of 
sale and I thought it most likely that led to the complete failure of the gearbox. I didnt agree 
think the fault was just normal wear and tear, as might be expected with a car of this age, 
price and mileage. I said having carefully considered all the relevant circumstances, 
including the price, age and mileage of the car when supplied  and when the first indication 
of a fault arose  I didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
The car is no longer working and will need significant repairs. Mr B hasnt had use of this car 
since December 2019. He has said he would accept a repair, but I said I must consider if this is practical in the circumstances. This is difficult to assess, without a full dismantle of the 
component, the full extent of the damage cant be known so Ive considered the report from 
the Audi dealership which says:
 Gearbox oil level too low, faults with gearbox speed sensors and gear select switch.
Only recommended repair due to age and mileage would be a replacement gearbox
I said given the cost of the repair could well exceed the value of the vehicle, Im persuaded it 
is only fair and reasonable to allow Mr B to reject the car. In terms of redress Im aware Mr B 
has said he has paid for the car to be towed to the garage. For me to refund the payment for 
this I will need an invoice or receipt to ascertain the exact costs involved. Im aware Mr B has 
been unwell, and his personal circumstances are such he may find it difficult to find this, but I 
will need it if he wishes me to consider a refund of this cost. 
I said I intended to ask Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to:
-end the agreement with nothing further to pay 
-collect the car at no further cost to Mr B 
-refund the deposit with 8% interest 
-remove the agreement from Mr Bs credit file
-refund all monthly payments since December 2019 when the car failed. 
-refund the £60 diagnostic fee
-pay Mr B £150 trouble and upset.
I invited both Mr B and Santander to respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr B made no further comments, nor did he supply any further information.
Santander disagreed with the findings of my provisional decision. It said although it agreed a 
fault had been raised within the first six months, it remained of the view the gearbox failure 
was due to Mr B not maintaining the vehicle in line with the service requirements. It again 
referred to the ACE report stating no inherent fault could be found. It said the vehicle had 
should have been services at 6,000 miles and had travelled an additional 4,000 miles after 
the required service. It believed this to be the reason for the low fluid levels which it believes 
ultimately led to the gearbox failure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both Mr B and Santander for confirming that theyd received my provisional decision. 
I have considered the submissions made by Santander. Ive re-considered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Ive reviewed the complete file again and revisited my provisional decision.
When there is a dispute about what has happened and where the information, Ive got is 
incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say what I think is more likely to be the case based upon 
the information available.
I have noted the points that Santander has re-iterated regarding its view that the gearbox 
failure was not an inherent fault at the point of sale. It hasnt, however, provided any new 
information to that already available to me in considering my final decision.
The ACE report it relies on, as I have already said, doesnt give a definitive response, as it 
clearly says the gearbox would need to be dismantled to establish exactly the cause. It 
hasnt been to my knowledge and so this means I must reach a decision based on 
probabilities, or what I think is more likely the case.
I remain of the view that it is more likely than not that the failure of a key component such as 
gearbox was due to an inherent fault at the point of sale rather than due to a failure by Mr B 
to service the car after it had travelled 6,000 miles. If the car had been serviced when Mr B 
purchased the car, then Im not persuaded the fluid levels could have fallen so dangerously 
low within a further 11,000 miles as to render the gearbox a complete failure. As I have 
already said its not an excessive distance to have travelled as to cause such catastrophic 
failure.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and direct Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc (trading as Santander) to:
-end the agreement with nothing further to pay 
-collect the car at no further cost to Mr B 
-refund the deposit with 8% interest 
-remove the agreement from Mr Bs credit file
-refund all monthly payments since December 2019 when the car failed. 
-refund the £60 diagnostic fee
-pay Mr B £150 trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman