DRN-4253411
The complaint
Mr P complains that AFH Independent Financial Services Limited (AFH) gave him 
unsuitable advice not to transfer the benefits from his deferred Defined Benefit (DB) 
occupational scheme to a personal pension arrangement. He says there were delays in the 
advice process and AFH wouldnt carry things out on an insistent client basis despite telling 
him that it would.
What happened
The following is a summary of the key event leading up to this complaint.
Towards the end of June 2021, Mr P approached AFH for advice about his existing DB 
pension scheme because he was interested in transferring his benefits to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) with a view to purchasing commercial property.
Mr P completed some documentation and provided some personal information to enable 
AFH to produce a fact-find, which recorded information about Mr Ps circumstances and 
objectives. Amongst other things this recorded that Mr P was 40 years old; he was single; he 
was self-employed; he owned two properties, both of which had outstanding mortgages on; 
and based on his previous banking and investment experience, he wanted to transfer his DB 
pension benefits to invest in commercial property. AFH also carried out an assessment of 
Mr Ps attitude to risk which it deemed to be adventurous  a score of 4 on a scale of 1-5.
In an abridged advice report dated 24 August 2021 (emailed to Mr P on 24 September 2021) 
AFH advised Mr P to remain in his DB scheme. It said the reasons for the recommendation 
were because Mr P was not yet in a position where giving up guarantees could be 
considered prudent and because it deemed his plans were very ambitious, and there were 
other routes for pursuing his goals without giving up the guarantees associated with his DB 
scheme.
In September 2022 Mr P complained to AFH about the advice and service he received. In 
summary Mr P said that he was disappointed with the advice not to transfer  he considered 
the advice was not competent; he was disappointed he couldnt proceed as an insistent 
client; the level of service he received was unsatisfactory  Mr P had to do lots of chasing of 
the adviser; he was told by the adviser on a video call  he had a strong case to transfer and 
they agreed with his view; he was also told on video call he could be an insistent client; and 
because he wasnt able to transfer, Mr P said hes suffered a loss because his transfer value 
is now lower. Mr P requested that AFH carry out the transfer, which he still wanted to do, 
based on the transfer value at the time of the original advice.
AFH didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. In a final response letter of October 2022 it said that the 
starting assumption for DB transfers is that a transfer will not be suitable. It said Mr P was 
made aware of this, along with the only two possible outcomes of abridged advice: either 
remain in the scheme or the outcome is unclear in which case full advice could be offered. It 
said it had found no evidence that Mr P was told a transfer was a foregone conclusion or that 
it would offer him an insistent client option. It said that it had understood and assessed 
Mr Ps circumstances and objectives and having done so, while it believed  Mr Ps assets 
gave him a strong foundation to build on, and it acknowledged his plans for a commercial 
property purchase, it didnt believe he was able to give up the valuable guarantees provided 
by his DB pension scheme. It said that as Mr Ps DB scheme represented a significant 
portion of his retirement income against the backdrop of a significant interest only mortgage 
that had no apparent means of repayment, it maintained that its advice not to transfer was 
the right one. It said that its decision not to offer an insistent client option was also the right 
one because it didnt think it was in Mr Ps best interests to transfer.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr P brought his complaint to our Service. An investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. In summary they said there was no evidence that AFHs advice 
to Mr P not to transfer his DB scheme benefits was unsuitable or that it didnt act in his best 
interests. They said Mr Ps DB scheme was his only pension and his plans were uncertain 
and high risk. They also didnt think Mr Ps desire to increase the death benefits available to 
his beneficiaries was a good reason to transfer. They said there was no evidence of 
significant delays in the advice process and it was AFHs decision whether or not to provide 
Mr P with an insistent client option. They said there was no evidence it told him it would offer 
this to him. They said they didnt think AFH had done anything substantially wrong and so 
they couldnt hold it responsible for the decrease in Mr Ps transfer value - notwithstanding 
that because Mr P hasnt transferred hes not suffered a loss in any event.
Mr P disagreed. In summary he said there was several inaccuracies in the investigators 
report which were based on the many inaccuracies within the abridged advice. Mr P said all 
the conversations he had with AFH were supportive of his decision to transfer out. He said 
these conversations took place on video calls and he cant believe AFH doesnt have any 
records of these. Mr P considers AFH is withholding evidence. He said he believes it is for 
the regulated firm to provide beyond reasonable doubt they are right  he considers 
omission of evidence is a sign of guilt and that the ruling should be in his favour. Mr P 
believes from a regulatory perspective he shouldve been able to transfer out. Mr P said that 
he found another advice firm who would help him, but because of the losses incurred as a 
result of the poor advice from AFH, he didnt go ahead. Mr P repeated his wish to transfer 
out at the same value as he shouldve been allowed to in 2021.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of AFH's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to not uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulators position
I think its important to set out here that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, AFH should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ps best interests. I understand Mr P 
disagrees with this starting position, but these are the regulatory rules businesses like AFH 
must follow when giving this kind of advice.
Abridged advice
In providing advice on his DB pension, AFH took Mr P through an abridged advice process 
as permitted under FCA rules. 
Abridged advice was introduced by the FCA in 2020. Its aim is to provide advice at a much 
lower cost to full advice. And while it begins the same way as full advice (the presumption of 
unsuitability also applies to abridged advice) including a full fact-finding exercise, attitude to 
risk assessment and confirmation of the existing scheme benefits, it must not include any 
assessment of the receiving scheme or analysis such as Transfer Value Comparator (TVC). 
Crucially, it can only result in one of two outcomes. COBS 19.1A sets out what these two 
outcomes are and how a business, like AFH, should act in giving abridged advice:
A firm giving a retail client abridged advice must either:
(1) Make a personal recommendation that the client remains in their ceding 
arrangement; or
(2) do all the following:
(a) inform the client that they are unable to take a view on whether it is in the clients best
interests to transfer or convert without undertaking full pension transfer of conversion 
advice, even when the firm considers that it may be in the clients best interests;
(b) check if the client wants the firm to provide full transfer or conversion advice and 
check that the client understands the associated cost
Im satisfied based on what Ive seen that it was reasonable for Mr P to have understood the 
only two possible outcomes that could result in AFH giving him abridged advice and what its 
fee would be for the advice. Mr P signed AFHs abridged advice fee agreement where this 
information was, in my view, clearly set out.
 AFHs abridged advice outcome report (dated 24 August 2021) was communicated to Mr P 
by email on 24 September 2021. The reports conclusion was that Mr P should retain his DB 
scheme benefits. Im satisfied AFHs abridged advice did not therefore go beyond what it 
was permitted to conclude.
Suitability of the advice
I can see Mr P believes the advice given to him to retain his DB scheme benefits was wrong 
and negligent. So Ive considered the advice AFH gave him.
Having done so, I think the conclusion reached by AFH that Mr P should retain the benefits 
in his DB scheme, was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Its clear from the advice paperwork that Mr P had experience of investing and that he was 
confident he could achieve returns greater than hed receive by remaining in the scheme. It 
appears Mr P had a plan of how he was going to achieve things. But AFHs role here wasnt 
simply to transact what Mr P wanted it to do. Its role was to advise Mr P, and in doing so it 
had to look beyond what Mr P wanted and what he felt was the best approach and make a 
determination of what it believed was in his best interests overall.
From the recommendation report AFH produced, its clear that it believed Mr Ps chosen 
path, which was to give up a guaranteed income in retirement for the opportunity of utilising 
his pension monies to purchase and so invest in commercial property  wasnt in his best 
interests. AFHs conclusion was that, at this stage in Mr Ps life and based on his current 
assets and liabilities, while his financial position was promising, he wasnt yet in the position 
where giving up the guarantees his DB scheme would provide was a prudent move to make. 
I can see AFH recorded for example that Mr P had outstanding interest-only debts totalling 
£185,000, which he needed to repay at some point in the future. It doesnt appear Mr P had 
a repayment vehicle in place. And his plan to rely on the state pension wasnt sensible given 
he was yet to accrue much by way of National Insurance contributions. I also note that AFH 
expressed concern that Mr Ps plans were ambitious and uncertain, but that his 
entrepreneurial goals could be achieved by remaining in the DB scheme  transferring 
wasnt the only way he could achieve things. It said the transfer was not a pre-requisite for 
any business plans he had. I think these were fair and reasonable conclusions for AFH to 
make at the time.
I can see that in completing AFHs questionnaire about his retirement objectives, Mr P 
indicated that he wanted his family to benefit from his pension. But in giving advice, the 
priority for AFH was to make a recommendation concerning Mr Ps retirement provision. 
Thats because a pensions primary purpose is to provide an income in retirement  thats 
what it is designed for. It is not designed to be primarily used as an inheritance planning tool. 
So I dont think it was unreasonable for AFH not to place greater weight on death benefits for 
his loved ones over Mr Ps retirement income needs.
I understand that Mr P disagrees with AFHs advice and recommendation. Hes also said the 
advice was based on inaccuracies  although I cant see that hes been specific here.
But Im satisfied based on the evidence presented that the advice was based on Mr Ps 
circumstances and needs at the time and that having considered these AFH deemed he 
should retain his DB scheme because it wasnt in his best interests to transfer to a personal 
pension arrangement. I dont think AFH acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
I can see that Mr P says he was told by the adviser he had a strong case to transfer and that 
they agreed with his view. In addition he says he was told he could be an insistent client. 
Mr P says this happened on video calls and hes expressed concern and disappointment that AFH havent produced recordings of them. Mr P has also said he believes AFH is 
withholding this evidence.
Firstly, Ive seen nothing to support Mr Ps view that AFH is withholding evidence. AFH says 
these calls werent recorded and that any notes from the calls wouldve been recorded in the 
fact-find. In my experience it is not unusual for these types of call to not be recorded. 
Looking at what evidence is available, including the WhatsApp messages and emails 
between Mr P and the adviser, some of which Mr P himself has provided, Ive seen no 
evidence to support Mr P being told by AFH that he had a strong case for transfer or that he 
could conduct matters on an insistent client basis. Given Mr P was being taken through the 
abridged advice process, it seems unlikely to me the adviser wouldve talked positively about 
transferring when there were only two outcomes that could result from the advice at this 
stage as I set out earlier  neither of which was a positive recommendation to transfer. 
I can see that Mr P would like to go ahead with the transfer of his DB pension and he wants
AFH to allow him to do so and based on the transfer value at the time. But in this case AFHs 
advice is that Mr P should not transfer and it stands by its advice. It has also made it clear 
that it will not facilitate the transfer on an insistent client basis. AFH is under no obligation to
do so and I cant compel AFH to do so. As Mr P knows, he is free to approach another firm if 
he still wishes to transfer his pension.
I can see that Mr P has expressed concern about the length of time the advice process took 
and that he had to chase the adviser several times for the report. Hes also said that 
because his transfer value is now lower hes suffered a loss because he cant now execute 
his plan. But AFHs advice was that Mr P should retain his DB pension  so Mr P hasnt lost 
out as a result of any delay there might have been in the advice process (notwithstanding 
that Im not persuaded there were any significant delays.) And just because Mr Ps transfer 
value might now be lower doesnt mean AFHs advice to retain his DB pension was 
unsuitable. As Ive set out above, I think the conclusions reached by AFH in its 
recommendation to Mr P were reasonable in the circumstances.
For these reasons, AFH is not responsible for any loss Mr P feels he has suffered as a result 
of the advice he received - there is nothing AFH needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint  so I make no award in 
Mr Ps favour.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman