DRN-2860767
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded him the money he lost as the 
result of a scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator - when she wrote to 
Barclays upholding Mr Js complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so 
I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
On 7 July 2020, Mr J was tricked into sending a scammer three Faster Payments 
transfers totalling £2,495. These were in sequence: £2,000, £450 and £45.
After the successful transactions were made, he attempted a further payment which 
failed to complete. Mr J then transferred his remaining balance to his wifes account.
He did so in the belief that his Barclays account was at risk and that he was acting to 
protect his money. This belief was based on what he was told in a text message and 
telephone call hed received, both purporting to originate from Barclays.
Mr J says the text message mirrored legitimate text messages hed previously 
received from Barclays. He says the call he received appeared to be from a Barclays 
number  suggesting the fraudster may have had the sophisticated capability to 
clone or spoof a legitimate Barclays number.
The caller knew specific information about him, helping persuade Mr J that the call 
was genuinely from his bank. Mr J says that the call was just like hed expect in a call 
from Barclays, including mirroring the typical security processes.
Mr J says he had a lot going on in his life at that time and says hed felt very 
pressurised during the call with the fraudster. He states he was worried someone 
was trying to take his money and he needed to take action to stop them.
Barclays says Mr J must have had doubts before making these transfers, as hed 
tried to call Barclays using a separate phone, during the call with the fraudster. It 
says he hadnt waited to have been connected to the right area before sending the 
payments. 
Mr J says he had been convinced he was already speaking to Barclays fraud team 
but thought he should double-check. Believing his money was under imminent threat, 
he ultimately didnt want to risk waiting on hold for the time required to be connected 
- when he was already convinced the caller was genuine.
The scam came to light when Mr J eventually did manage to speak to Barclays 
customer service team  unfortunately, this being shortly after the scam had 
occurred. Barclays attempted to retrieve the funds, but none remained in the 
recipient account. 
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). This is 
a voluntary scheme Barclays has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that have 
fallen victim to a scam. 
The starting position under the CRM Code is for a customer to be refunded. A firm might 
choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer hasnt met their requisite level of care 
under the CRM Code. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider whether it can 
establish that the customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Barclays declined to refund Mr J. It felt Mr J had not done enough to check the legitimacy of 
the caller and so had made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing it 
legitimate. It also thought he hadnt taken appropriate action in response to a scam warning.
Mr J brought his complaint to our service as he was unhappy with Barclays decision. One of 
our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld. 
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had established that Mr J had failed to meet his 
requisite level of care under the CRM Code. She found that Mr J had a reasonable basis for 
believing he was transferring his money to a new account in order to protect it. She thought it 
was reasonable for Mr J to have believed this because the scammer had used sophisticated 
techniques to deceive him, including number spoofing, and mimicking the experience Mr J 
had expected of a legitimate call. 
With this in mind, the investigator didnt think Mr Js failed attempt to validate the call before 
making the payments showed hed failed to take sufficient care, nor that it showed that hed 
made the payments without a reasonable basis for belief  hed already been persuaded he 
was speaking with his bank and that he needed to act with urgency. She noted the 
circumstances Mr J describes being in at the time of the scam, and the pressure he was 
made to feel during the scam. Overall, she thought he had acted reasonably in all of the 
circumstances at the time.
The investigator subsequently considered the warning messages Barclays says it gave - but 
she didnt think Barclays had been able to establish that Mr J had ignored an effective 
warning. The investigator found Mr J would reasonably have thought the warnings Barclays 
gave didnt apply to his situation. She thought this because the warnings referenced 
requests to make payment via a social media or dating website  neither of which had any 
relevance to this scam.
In conclusion, the investigator said Barclays ought to have fully reimbursed Mr J at the time 
he made his claim. She said it should now settle the complaint by fully refunding the amount 
Mr J had lost together with interest on this sum at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date 
it declined his claim to the date of settlement.
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 12 March 2021, with a deadline for 
responding of 26 March 2021. Barclays replied saying it was still considering the matter. It 
submitted further information including regarding the warnings given. The investigator 
responded on 19 April 2021, explaining that the new information didnt lead her to change 
her original assessment or outcome. Her response gave a further deadline for Barclays to 
reply of 3 May 2021.
That further deadline has now passed and, over a month later, the bank has failed to 
respond. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it.  
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Barclays to the 
investigators latest assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the 
evidence we already have and/or to take account of Barclays failure to reply to the 
investigators reiterated opinion. 
Ive considered whether, under the CRM Code, Mr J ought to have been fully reimbursed 
when he notified Barclays of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not he met 
his requisite level of care under the CRM Code. I believe he did, and for substantively the 
same reasons the investigator has already explained, so it would have been fair and 
reasonable for Mr J to have received a full refund at the time.
Mr J has detailed the impact these events have had on him. Although most of Mr Js distress 
or inconvenience probably resulted from the criminal acts of the fraudsters, I agree with the 
investigator that Barclays could have done more to protect Mr J from the impact of this - 
given its obligations under the CRM Code and its statutory duty to co-operate with our 
complaints process (DISP Rule 1.4.4 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook). With all 
of this in mind, I consider £250 compensation for distress or inconvenience to be 
appropriate. Im aware that the investigator previously recommended the slightly lower figure 
of £200. But I consider an award of £250 appropriate in all the circumstances, and given 
where we are in the complaint journey, and the fact compensation for distress and 
inconvenience is a matter of discretion, I believe it should fairly be paid in this case.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr J ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay Mr J:
the full amount of the money he lost as a result of the scam, being £2,495 less any 
sums Barclays has already been able to return to Mr J. It should do so within 
28 days of receiving notification of Mr Js acceptance of my final decision; plus,
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Barclays declined Mr Js claim under the CRM to the date 
of settlement; and,
£250 compensation for distress or inconvenience  also within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision, failing which interest will thereafter 
accrue at the same rate until payment.  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman