DRN-2671808
The complaint and what happened
Mr M complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) didnt cancel his personal 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when his mortgage ended. Mr M is also unhappy with the 
lack of correspondence he received from St Andrews during the life of his policy. 
Mr M took out a stand-alone PPI policy when he obtained a buy to let mortgage in 2002. The 
mis-selling of this policy has been dealt with in another final decision by this service. 
As the PPI wasnt directly connected to the mortgage when the mortgage ended, the policy 
continued to run. It was eventually cancelled due to non-payment of the premiums in 2017. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ms complaints but they didnt think St Andrews had 
done anything wrong. Mr M disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
I feel it would be beneficial if I explain that my role  and the role of this service  is to 
identify if a business has done something wrong. And if it has made a mistake then we ask a 
business to put the consumer back in the position they should have been had that error not 
occurred.  
I understand Mr M is unhappy with how often St Andrews sent information to him, but it is 
not for the service to tell a business how and when it should write to its customers. But I 
have looked to see if there was any error that may have meant Mr M didnt get information or 
letters when he should have done. But there is no evidence that this happened. And when   
St Andrews did send correspondence to Mr M it did so correctly  sending it to the correct 
person and address. I cannot ask St Andrews to do any more than that. 
Mr M has also explained why he is unhappy that he continued to pay for the PPI after his 
mortgage ended. And I understand his frustrations here. This service agreed in a separate 
final decision that the PPI wasnt suitable for Mr M, so hes got all his money back. But  in 
light of Mr Ms comments  I have considered whether the mis-selling warrants additional 
compensation. Having done this, I dont think it does. Mr M has already been effectively put 
back in the position he would have been had the policy not been sold and all premiums have 
been refunded plus interest.  And nothing Mr M has told me makes me think that anything 
more is warranted in this case. 
I appreciate this outcome is likely to disappoint Mr M, but I hope my explanation helps him to 
understand how I reached it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman