DRN-2079172
The complaint
Its been agreed AXA France IARD should accept responsibility for this complaint. To keep 
things simpler, Ill refer to AXA as the seller of the PPI in my decision.
Ms S says AXA mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In October 2002 Ms S took out a store card with PPI whilst she was out shopping. 
Amongst other things, Ms S said she had a long term serious health problem when she took 
out the PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Ms Ss complaint upheld it. Mainly, he didnt think Ms S 
wouldve taken out the insurance if AXA had made her aware that the policy wouldnt have 
covered accident and sickness claims for any health problem Ms S had when she bought it. 
AXA disagrees with our adjudicators view. Its not in dispute that Ms S had the condition she 
mentioned. But AXA says that its a condition that is usually manageable which wouldnt 
affect a persons lifestyle and would be treated with medication.
AXA says theres nothing to suggest the severity of Ms Ss condition or how it affected her 
ability to work at the point of sale or after. AXA doesnt believe that this condition was 
sufficient on its own for the policy to be unsuitable as it may have never affected Ms S. And it 
says Ms S wouldve been able to claim for any other condition that meant she had to take 
time off work. 
AXA told us that it required Ms S to provide evidence that her condition was ongoing and 
how it affected her work. AXA said, as there was no evidence that Ms Ss medical condition 
would negate her need for the policy, it didnt agree to uphold her complaint.
So Ms Ss complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA needed to give Ms S enough clear information about the PPI for her to be able to make 
an informed choice about whether it was right for her. 
I dont know exactly what was said when the policy was sold to Ms S.
It looks like the policy Ms S bought didn't cover claims resulting from any sickness, disease, 
condition or injury in the 12 months before the policy start date that may have caused her to 
claim for disability benefits.
So I think its likely that the policy wording wouldve excluded cover for accident and 
sickness claims resulting from Ms Ss medical condition. 
I think the limitation on cover for health conditions is likely to have mattered to Ms S. I say 
this because I think that her condition is relatively serious. Its a condition that is potentially 
life changing and life limiting. Ms S told us she had to manage her condition on a daily basis. 
I think Ms S might reasonably have expected that her health condition could potentially have 
a significant impact on her day to day life and lead to her needing to take time off work.
But I cant see how or if AXA drew this information to her attention, as it shouldve done. 
And, if it had, I think its likely that Ms S wouldnt have bought the policy. 
Ive taken carefully into account what AXA has said in response to our adjudicators opinion. 
But this doesn't affect my overall view. 
When Ms S agreed to the PPI she was entitled to have the main features brought to her 
attention. AXA says it agrees she had the condition. But AXA failed to ask Ms S anything at 
all about her health on the application she filled in to take out the policy  and there was 
nothing on it which suggested her health might be an important issue. Nor has AXA shown 
me that this was something that was discussed with Ms S at the time. Given her medical 
condition was an ongoing one, I think Ms S wouldve wanted to know it would be covered by 
taking out this type of cover. And if AXA had done this, I dont think its likely that Ms S 
wouldve thought the policy was right for her.  
Based on all the information I've seen, I think Ms S has lost out because of what AXA did 
wrong and it should put things right. 
In my decision, I havent considered whether AXA made the optional nature of the policy 
clear to Ms S (which the adjudicator mentioned) because Im upholding the complaint on 
other grounds. So I dont need say any more about this.
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
I understand that Ms Ss account has been closed and the PPI policy cancelled already, so:
A. AXA should find out how much Ms S would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms S owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms S would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms S would have owed each month without PPI  Ms S 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms S 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Ms S what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Ms S that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms Ss complaint and AXA France IARD should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman