DRN-2095128
 
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G). She isnt happy 
about the way it handled a claim under her domestic appliance insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs T made a claim under her insurance policy after she had problems with her cooker. The 
claim went ahead no problem and a replacement was agreed. But she wasnt happy that 
D&G wouldnt fit the new cooker or take the old one away when its agent brought the new 
one.
D&G said the policy only covered the replacement of the cooker and explained it wasnt 
obliged to fit the new cooker or take the old one away. So, Mrs T complained to this service 
highlighting that she had the policy since 2005 and that her replacement fridge was fitted 
when she made a claim previously.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold the complaint. He explained that 
D&G had acted fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. Which made it clear 
that taking the old appliance away and fitting the new one wasnt part of the policy. 
As Mrs Ts didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs T, but Ill 
explain why.
I can understand Mrs Ts frustration as she was left to dispose of the old cooker and get the 
new cooker fitted herself. But as the investigator explained the policy didnt cover this so 
D&G werent obligated to do it.
I know Mrs Ts representative says she wasnt aware of the terms and conditions as the 
policy had been in place since 2005 when they first moved into the house. But the policy 
renewal documents were sent a few months before this claim. So I think Mrs T couldve 
refreshed herself about the level of cover at that time and before she made a claim. 
Furthermore, D&G explained this to her when she first made the claim over the phone so Im 
satisfied she shouldve been aware that the old cooker wouldnt be taken away or the new 
one fitted.
Mrs Ts representative also says she had an expectancy that the new cooker would be fitted 
as her new fridge was fitted when she made a claim previously. But I think that was a matter 
for the delivery company. And fitting a fridge would be far simpler than fitting a new cooker 
which is probably why it was fitted for Mrs T as a gesture of goodwill. I dont think this means D&G is then obligated to fit everything that is claimed for under the policy and it was the 
delivery company, not D&G, that made this decision in any event.
Given all of this and the fact the contract clearly specifies that the fitting of the new cooker 
and the disposal of the old cooker arent covered under the policy, I dont think D&G have 
done anything wrong.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18September2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman