DRN-1908407
 
The complaint
Miss M is complaining that a car Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) supplied her 
under a hire purchase agreement was of unsatisfactory quality.
 
What happened
In April 2019 Miss M entered into a hire purchase agreement to acquire a car. She says 
she told the salesman at the time that she worked as a locum so needed a reliable car. 
But she's had numerous faults with the car since she acquired it. She says the tyre 
pressure warning light came on when driving home after she collected the car. She took 
the car back to the dealership she acquired the car from ('the dealership') to assess it. But 
the dealership was unable to carry out the work for two weeks. Miss M then returned the 
car two weeks later and the dealership replaced the tyre valve in one of the tyres.
Around a week later another warning light came on indicating the brake fluid was low. 
Miss M says she bought some brake fluid and topped it up in the car. She then took the car 
back to the dealership. She says the dealership initially disputed there was a fault. But 
Miss M says it later found a leak in the clutch master cylinder after she pointed out a damp 
patch in the driver's footwell.
The dealership was unable to repair the car straight away and it said that the car wasn't 
safe. Miss M says she was asked to drive the car home with one of the dealership's 
employees and the employee then drove back with the car. Miss M collected the car four 
days later, but she says when she stopped at a set of traffic lights, the car wouldn't restart 
after the start/stop function turned the car off. She says the car did eventually restart and 
she was able to drive home. But she says a couple of days later, when going to a dentist 
appointment, the car wouldn't start again. And she says it took around 10 minutes to get 
the car started. She says this made her late for her dentist appointment.
Miss M's partner called the dealership to advise them of what was happening. But the 
dealership said they couldn't take the car in for two weeks or provide a courtesy car as it 
wasn't available. Miss M booked the car in for repair. But during that time she says the car 
cut out in some roadworks. She says she managed to get the car started after 10 minutes 
in busy traffic. She called the dealership who advised she should get the car towed to 
them. She arranged for the car to be towed through her insurance breakdown cover.
Miss M says the person who sold her the car spent around an hour trying to start the car, 
but he was unable to do so. She says the dealership asked Miss M to leave the car, but 
she says they couldn't give her a courtesy car in the meantime. They gave Miss M £50 to 
pay for a taxi to get home. Miss M thought the issue was linked to the previous repair to 
the clutch.
The following day she says she spoke with the dealership and said that she'd looked into 
her rights and didn't want the car back. And she said she wanted a refund of what she 
paid towards the car. Miss M also called Oodle and says she advised the same that she 
wanted to reject the car.
The dealership diagnosed the fault to be down to a faulty starter motor which they 
replaced. And they called Miss M the following day and said the car was ready to be 
collected, but Miss M said she didn't want the car back. She says she's since contacted 
Oodle a number of times to try to end the agreement, but it hasn't allowed her to do so. 
Oodle didn't think Miss M had the right to reject the car because it had been repaired. 
Miss M maintains that she didn't authorise the repairs, so she wasn't willing to collect it. So 
Oodle said it would arrange for an independent engineer to inspect the car.
The engineer concluded that there werent any faults with the car. So Oodle said it still didn't 
think Miss M had a right to reject the car.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2020 partially upholding this complaint. And I said the 
following:
Miss M has raised a number of reasons why she's unhappy with Oodle and the dealership. 
I've thought about and considered everything she's said, but I've not commented on each 
and every point she's raised. Instead I've focussed on what I think are the key issues. No 
discourtesy is meant by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Miss M acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implies a term into the hire purchase agreement that 
the car must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, Oodle is 
responsible for the quality of the car its provided under the agreement. Theres no dispute 
that there have been faults with the car, but the issue is whether they were present at the 
time of sale, and whether the faults make the car of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
In deciding whether this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage and age. In this case, Miss M paid 
around £8,855 for the car. The car was around four years old and had travelled around 
79,000 miles at the point of supply.
In assessing whether the car was of satisfactory quality I've thought whether those problems 
were likely to have been present or developing at the time of sale, as opposed to natural 
and inevitable wear and tear in a used car. Ive also considered whether a reasonable 
person would expect there to be problems such as Miss M has experienced in a car of this 
price, age and mileage  in short is the car sufficiently durable.
Its reasonable to expect that the car would show some signs of wear and tear given its age 
and mileage. I think it was also reasonable to expect that faults may arise with the car 
earlier than one would expect with a newer, lower mileage car. However, there are still 
certain reasonable expectations  even with an older second-hand car.
Initially the dealership replaced one of the car's tyre valve. But I don't think a faulty tyre valve 
could be considered unexpected given the number of miles the car had travelled when 
Miss M had acquired it. However, I'm not persuaded that it was reasonable for Miss M to 
have expected the clutch master cylinder and the starter motor to need replacing within the 
first two months of acquiring the car  especially given she paid around £8,855 for it. I think 
these are key components of the car to enable it to function sufficiently. It also seems to 
have made the car unsafe to drive. So I don't think the car was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale.
Miss M says she should have been allowed to reject the car because the car had already 
been back to the garage three times. And she says she's been advised that she should be 
allowed to reject the car after one failed repair.Under the CRA Miss M has the right to ask Oodle to fix the car, but if that repair is 
unsuccessful, she has the right to reject it. But the CRA also says that where a consumer 
asks for their goods to be repaired, they can't then exercise their short-term right to reject 
the goods without giving the business a reasonable period of time to repair them. I 
acknowledge that the dealership had already carried out a repair. So Miss M is correct that 
the CRA gave her the final right to repair.
But the dealership says Miss M asked them to repair the car when she bought it in which 
was on a Sunday. And they said she told them she needed the car back by Tuesday. So 
they said they specifically arranged for an engineer to come in the following day (which was 
a bank holiday) to repair the car. The dealership says Miss M didn't ask to reject the car until 
after the car was repaired. Miss M disputes she asked them to repair the car because she 
says she told them she was going to go home and look up her legal rights.
While Miss M did have a final right to repair, taking into account what I said the CRA says 
about the short-term right to reject, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to allow her 
to reject the car if shed already asked for it to be repaired unless the repair failed or it took 
too long. So I think the key issue in this complaint is whether Miss M did ask the dealership 
to repair the car at first. On balance I think it's most likely she did do so. I've considered 
what both parties have said in respect to this. The dealership set out the following:
"We can absolutely guarantee that the customer demanded a repair and told our sales 
manager that she had to have the vehicle back for an upcoming job interview. On this basis 
we asked one of our technicians to come in on bank holiday Monday to diagnose the issue 
so it could be dealt with first job on Tuesday, the customer did not request a rejection until 
after the repair was completed. Had the customer said that she wanted to reject the vehicle I 
would not have paid the customers £50 taxi fare home."
I've also taken into account Miss M's comments that she says she told the garage not to do 
anything with the car until she'd researched the legal position. I think, on balance, it's most 
likely that Miss M would have told the garage to repair the car and I think this is supported 
by the garage's subsequent actions of paying for the cost of the taxi and arranging to get an 
engineer to come in on a bank holiday to repair the car. I think it's unlikely the dealership 
would have done this had Miss M asked to reject the car.
I don't dispute that Miss M contacted Oodle and the dealership over the following days 
saying she wanted to reject the car. But I'm satisfied that she'd already asked them to repair 
the car and the dealership was acting upon this. And, as I said above, having requested a 
repair it was fair and reasonable that the dealership was given a reasonable period of time 
to fix the car.
The dealership fixed the car within two days, so I'm satisfied that it did so within a 
reasonable period of time. And the independent engineer instructed to inspect the car has 
said that he couldn't find any faults with the car. It appears that the car has been 
satisfactorily repaired. So I don't think Miss M had a right to reject it under the CRA. And, 
given the car now appears to be fault free, I don't think it was unfair for Oodle to say she 
couldn't reject it either.
I recognise that Miss M hasn't had access to the car since May 2019. But I think this is down 
to the fact she chose to not collect the car  not because of anything Oodle did wrong. That 
said, I do think Oodle's breach of contract for not giving Miss M a car of satisfactory quality 
did cause Miss M some unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
It seems the dealership had the car for around a week following the failure of the clutch 
master cylinder and Miss M wasn't given a courtesy car during this time  so she was without a car during this time. She's also explained that she had to top up the brake fluid at 
her expense.
Further to this, Miss M has also given a detailed explanation of what was happening with the 
car in respect to the fault with the starter motor. And I haven't seen anything to show that 
what she's said didn't happen. I understand the car wouldn't restart on at least two 
occasions whilst in traffic for a number of minutes, which I can appreciate would have been 
distressing for her. I also think having to have the car towed to the dealership when it 
wouldn't start would have been similarly distressing and it seems to have taken a number of 
hours before she was able to return home.
I'm also conscious that the garage was around 30 miles away from Miss M's house. And it 
appears that she had to make three separate round trips to the garage to both take the car 
there to be fixed and then to collect it again. I think this distress and inconvenience is a 
direct result of Oodle supplying a car that wasn't of satisfactory quality. So I think Oodle
should pay Miss M £250 in compensation.
Miss M responded to say she largely accepted my provisional decision. But she raised the 
following additional points shed like me to consider:
She got into financial difficulties due to a job change and reduced income. So she 
stopped paying her finance in November 2019 which has caused negative impacts on 
her credit file. And she queried if these would be removed.
She accepts she did ask the dealership to repair the car, but she said she would be 
looking at her rights when she got home. She said she did try and call Oodle that night, 
but it was closed being a Sunday. She says she did speak with the dealership the next 
day and was told they were having problems trying to get the part. And she maintained 
she told him at that point she wanted to reject the car.
She asked if it was possible to request a refund of the payments she made after May 
2019. She said the car was of unsatisfactory quality, so she thinks its unfair shes had to 
continue to keep making payments. She says she didnt collect the car because she was 
advised to not do so and she says shes had to acquire another car on finance to enable 
her to keep working.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said in response to my provisional decision. But I 
dont think shes provided any significantly new evidence. So Ive come to the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
Firstly, I note Miss M said she got into financial difficulties, so couldnt keep up with her 
monthly repayments after this point. But I cant see shes raised this issue with Oodle before. 
Our rules dont allow us to consider a complaint until Oodle has had an opportunity to 
investigate it first. So Miss M will need to raise this with Oodle directly first if she wants to 
take this further.
I acknowledge Miss M wants Oodle to refund the payments she made since May 2019. But it 
was her choice not to collect the car once the dealership said the car was repaired. I 
appreciate she says she was advised not to pick it up. But thats not something I can hold 
Oodle responsible for. And it was her choice to enter into another hire purchase agreement. I 
set out in my provisional decision why I dont think it was unfair for the dealership and Oodle 
to say she couldnt reject it. I note Miss M says she told the dealership she was going to research her legal rights. But 
Im satisfied my provisional decision explains why I think its most likely she did ask the 
dealership to repair the car. And Im still not persuaded shes given us enough to show she 
asked to reject the car before it was repaired.
Ultimately the car was available for her to use and Ive not seen anything to show it wasnt 
successfully repaired. Given this, I cant fairly require Oodle refund all the monthly shes 
made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Oodle Financial Services Limited to pay Miss M £250 in compensation. I make no 
further award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman