DRN-3281528
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded him after he fell victim to an 
impersonation scam.
What happened
Ive discussed the circumstances of this complaint with both parties and each is fully aware 
of the details of it. As such I dont intend to repeat the extensive background here. In 
summary:
Mr B received a call from someone posing as a police officer. They were in fact a 
fraudster.
The fraudster told Mr B that his banking details had become compromised, with his 
account information and card details being passed to criminals. 
Mr B was unsure about the call but was persuaded to continue after he followed the 
fraudsters instructions to hang up, call 999 and verify his details as a police officer. 
Mr B did as instructed but the fraudster had kept the phone line open, meaning they 
took the call Mr B believed he was making to 999. Not realising thats what had 
happened, Mr B was convinced the call was genuine.
The fraudster went on to explain that someone at Lloyds was involved in the fraud, 
and someone at Mr Bs local branch was processing forged bank notes. They asked 
for Mr Bs assistance with their investigation.
Mr B, believing he was genuinely talking to the police, agreed to help. He was told to 
withdraw cash from his account and then hand this over to police, using a courier 
service that would be arranged.
Mr B attended his branch and withdrew a total of £5,100 across two accounts. The 
bank recognised the withdrawal as unusual and so questioned Mr B about it. 
Lloyds and Mr B disagree about the level of detail and questioning in the 
conversation that followed
oMr B recalls questioning being limited and without mention of scams involving 
police or courier fraud;
oLloyds says it read a scam script, asked detailed questions about the purpose 
of the withdrawals, and specifically mentioned the impersonation of police 
officers (including that the police would never ask someone to withdraw and 
hand over cash). Its said Mr B never appeared concerned or worried.  
Lloyds and Mr B do agree that a cover story was given for the purpose of the 
payment. Mr B told the bank:
othe money was to pay for his grandsons university tuition;
oit was to be given to his daughter (his grandsons mother) and shed then 
make the payment to the university;
ohe was withdrawing cash as his daughters account wasnt with a high street 
bank and so he didnt trust it.
Lloyds allowed the withdrawals to proceed and Mr B left with the cash. A courier then 
arrived at his home to collect the money. Shortly after, Mr B realised hed been the 
victim of a scam.
Lloyds declined to refund Mr B as it felt it had done all it could to question him about 
the purpose of the payment and warn about the specific scam he fell victim to.
Mr B was unhappy with the banks response and so brought the complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators considered what had happened and ultimately 
agreed with the banks position. She didnt recommend the complaint be upheld and 
so Mr B asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said earlier that Ive already discussed this complaint with both parties. I informed the bank 
of my intention to uphold the complaint and my reasons for doing so. As its still disagreed 
its necessary for me to issue my final decision. I also confirmed the outcome with Mr B and 
it was accepted. And so, as with the background to the complaint, Ill not restate all of the 
detail here as both parties are aware of it.
It is true that the withdrawals made by Mr B were authorised, even though he was the victim 
of a sophisticated scam. He knowingly withdrew the money from the bank and even though 
he was tricked into doing so, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms 
and conditions of his account, Mr B is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Lloyds hasnt argued that these considerations dont apply. Indeed, it recognised unusual 
account activity and stepped in to question it.
Whats key is that I dont believe Lloyds in branch questioning went far enough. There was a 
clear opportunity to prevent the scam, and there were warning signs that Mr B was falling 
victim.It is good to see that the bank took some steps to try and protect Mr B. Questioning him 
about the withdrawals was the right thing to do considering their unusual nature. Its also 
important to bear in mind Mr Bs age. He was 76 at the time of the scam and so on the cusp 
of what the FCA describes as an older old consumer. The purpose of highlighting such 
characteristics of a consumer is to help identify those at heightened risk of financial harm 
due to fraud and scams. Many people of Mr Bs age and above may well not be obviously 
vulnerable. But it is a fact that fraudsters target older people, and so they are generally at 
greater risk. This is a fact Lloyds ought to be aware of. 
What this means in practice is that the bank ought to have been particularly careful to ask 
probing questions about the purpose of Mr Bs withdrawal. Those questions need to go 
beyond asking only what the payment is for; the bank ought to be asking questions that flesh 
out the detail. The purpose here is to break through any spell cast by clever and 
sophisticated fraudsters. Victims are often coached into giving cover stories for payments 
and withdrawals, as was the case here. And so the bank should use its expertise to question 
customers to see that the given purpose of a payment holds up to a reasonable level of 
scrutiny. 
Im not persuaded the banks level of questioning went far enough here. The testimony from 
both parties suggests that Mr B was only asked the purpose of the payment and the 
response he gave wasnt probed further. I dont disagree with the bank where its said the 
purpose given by Mr B was plausible. Generally speaking it was; its certainly feasible that a 
grandfather would pay toward a grandchilds education. Although its worth noting that the 
bank doesnt appear to have asked any relevant follow-up questions to confirm the purpose, 
which might have otherwise helped to reveal the scam.
What makes the explanation sound unusual is the fact Mr B was withdrawing cash here, and 
he told the bank he was handing it over to his granddaughter (who wasnt present). And the 
reason he gave for not transferring the money instead was that she held an account with a 
non-high street bank and he didnt trust it. Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to say this 
ought to have caused the bank to question Mr B further. 
It ought to have sought further detail on where she did hold her account and why a faster 
payment couldnt be trusted. The bank could have, and should have, explained how making 
a faster payment was a safe and secure method of payment. It ought to have explained that 
Mr Bs money was safe if he was dealing with a regulated UK bank. And it ought to have 
been wary of allowing an older customer to leave branch with over £5,000 in cash on their 
person, when that didnt appear to be a necessary risk. Mr Bs position on refusing a safe, 
fast, and secure payment method ought to have raised red flags with Lloyds.
The bank could also quite easily have seen that Mr B did regularly make faster payments 
and so was  at least generally  comfortable with the faster payments system. And, whats 
more, it could have seen that hed sent money to his daughter using that payment method 
several days before. All of which ought to have led to the bank questioning what it was being 
told.
Im satisfied that asking more suitable questions would have either broken the spell for Mr B 
or it would have led to a position where Lloyds was rightly concerned about the withdrawal. If 
the latter was true, Lloyds could then have invoked the Banking Protocol which would have 
seen the police attending branch to speak to Mr B. Its very difficult to see how that wouldnt 
have led to the scam being uncovered. 
Lloyds has made the argument that it read Mr B a scam script and discussed police 
impersonation scams. Ive seen little evidence to show exactly what was discussed. Mr Bs 
recollections of such conversations are limited. But even the banks explanation doesnt 
persuade me that a detailed conversation took place. Reading scripts and generally 
mentioning impersonation scams, even specifically involving the police, will often do little to 
break the spell cast by a fraudster. Banks need to bring to life the key features of such a scam, carefully and clearly explaining the details so a customer can understand and relate to 
them. Im not persuaded that happened here, but I do believe it would have made a 
difference. 
In conclusion, Im persuaded that the bank ought to have done more to prevent the scam 
and that, had it done so, Mr Bs loss would have been avoided. It follows that Lloyds then 
ought to compensate Mr B for that loss by reimbursing the money that was withdrawn.
I have considered whether Mr B should bear some responsibility for his loss and I dont think 
he should. He was the innocent and unwitting victim of a sophisticated scam. The fraudsters 
preyed on his trust of the police, and used known technology loopholes to convince him 
thats who he was genuinely dealing with. I know he didnt tell the truth about the purpose of 
his withdrawals. But this is a common feature of scams that Lloyds ought to be aware of. 
And as the expert in the relationship it needed to do more to break the fraudsters convincing 
spell. 
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay compensation to Mr B in form of:
refunding the two withdrawals to their respective accounts;
pay interest on each withdrawal at the applicable account rate, calculated from the 
date of loss to the date of settlement
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman