DRN-3234903
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he took possession of under a hire purchase 
agreement (finance agreement) with STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (Startline).
What happened
In March 2019 Mr M entered into a finance agreement with Startline for a used car costing 
£7,528.00. The car was approximately seven and half years old and had travelled 
approximately 71,000 miles.
Everything else being equal Mr M undertook to pay (the supplying dealership) a £4.00 
deposit and to pay (Startline) 50 monthly payments of £212.94 followed by a final payment of 
£222.94  making a total repayable of £10,873.94 at an APR of 19.8%. The dealership also 
accepted (in part exchange) Mr Ms existing car and settled (in full) the outstanding finance 
of £1,228 in respect of it.
In June 2019 the car broke down and one injector was replaced by the supplying 
dealership at no cost to Mr M.
In July 2019 the car had further problems which were again repaired by the supplying 
dealership at no cost to Mr M.
In October 2019 the car broke down again and three injectors were replaced. Two 
injectors were replaced under warranty at no cost to Mr M. The third injector was 
replaced at a cost to Mr M which he was later reimbursed for.
In December 2019 the car experienced further problems/issues. It was inspected by 
an engineer (appointed by Startline) who said the supplying dealership, previous 
repairers (if not the supplying dealership) and Startline werent responsible for those 
problems/issues.
In January 2020 Mr M took the car to a garage of his choice for inspection. This 
garage said that before any further investigation and repairs could be undertaken the 
injectors needed to be coded by another garage/dealer. Mr M paid £80 for this 
inspection.
In January 2020 Mr M had the injectors coded by another garage/dealer. Mr M paid 
£54 for this coding.
Later in January 2020, with the car still experiencing the December 2019 
problems/issues, Mr Ms car was repaired at a cost of £514.50. £463.05 of this sum 
(90% of the final invoice sum) was paid under warranty at no cost to Mr M. But Mr M 
ended up paying £51.45 of this sum (10% of the final invoice sum) by way of a 
warranty excess.
Mr M complained to our service that he should be refunded the costs he paid of £185.45 
(£80 + £54 + £51.45) and that he should be compensated for being with out the car for 
32 days between December 2019 and January 2020.
On 3 January 2020 Startline issued Mr M with a final response letter (FRL).
Under cover of this FRL Startline said:
On 23 December 2019 an independent inspection was carried out on the car, 
commissioned, and paid for, by, it.
The report provided in respect of this inspection concluded that it wasnt responsible 
for the current problems/issues. And on balance these problems/issues were as a 
result of contaminated fuel being used, rather than anything else  for example a 
previous failed repair, or due to a fault being present or developing at the point of 
sale.
After Startline had issued its FRL, Mr M further complained (to our service) that the fuel filter 
needed to be replaced in July 2020 and the part that had to be replaced was stamped with a 
date of 2011, suggesting it hadnt been replaced for a number of years. He also complained 
that he had been supplied with a car that hadnt been serviced in line with the manufacturers 
recommended guidelines/schedules and it had been provided to him without a service 
record of any kind.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary she said:
She had seen insufficient evidence that the car had been advertised/sold to Mr M on 
the basis that it had been serviced in line with manufacturers recommendations 
and/or came with a documented service history, in full or in part.
She wasnt persuaded that Mr M acquired the car on the strength that it came with a 
documented service history, in full or in part.
Mr M has only raised the lack of documented service history in August 2021 and had 
a documented service history been material to his decision to take possession of the 
car she might have expected him to have raised it with Startline somewhat sooner 
than he did.
The date stamped on the fuel filter that had to be replaced isnt evidence of, or even 
an indication of, when that fuel filter was installed.
There is insufficient evidence to conclude that the original fuel filter was responsible 
for the issues Mr M experienced with the car after he took possession of it.
She was satisfied that the independent inspection could be relied upon. And based 
on the report provided in respect of that inspection, she couldnt reasonably conclude 
that Startline could, or should, be held responsible for Mr Ms claimed losses.Mr M responded to say that he disagreed with the investigators view. In summary he said:
Other than Startlines appointed inspector, no other party (with access to the car) has 
ever made reference to contaminated fuel being used or being responsible for the 
problems he has encountered.
He wasnt allowed to be present when inspection of the car was undertaken, and the 
appointed inspector may well have been influenced by the opinion of other interested 
parties in this case.
Whos to say the car wasnt tampered with before the inspection was carried out, but 
after it had left his possession.
The investigator considered Mr Ms response to her view but wasnt persuaded to change 
her mind. Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr M has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr M will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. So, our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Startline is the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement and so is responsible for dealing with a complaint about its quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 covers hire purchase agreements. Under a hire purchase 
agreement, there are implied conditions that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory 
quality. In Mr Ms case, the car he acquired was used  so there would be different 
expectations compared to a new car. Having said that, the cars condition at the point of 
supply, should have met the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, 
given its age, mileage and price. 
December 2019 issue(s)
Shortly after Mr M raised his concerns about the quality of the car in December 2019 
Startline commissioned an independent inspection of the car.
Ive seen a copy of this report and note that, amongst other things, it states:
O3We would consider that the previous [repairs have] not failed and that the vehicle 
has been driven on contaminated diesel fuel, specialist fuel sample testing would be 
required to fully confirm, we would consider however that this is the cause of the 
faults with the vehicle currently.A1On the balance of probability these faults would not have been developing at finance 
inception.
A2We would consider that the repairs have been unsuccessful, and the condition is 
due to the vehicle being driven on contaminated diesel fuel. 
This answer states unsuccessful but reading the answer in its entirety and against 
the content of the report as a whole Im satisfied that this is a typographical error and 
should read successful.
A7The selling agent/previous agent would not have liability.
C2There was evidence of fuel leakage around fuel injector 2 fuel leak off pipe the pipe 
feeling deteriorated a fuel sample was obtained and was displaying what appears to 
be contamination and a strong chemical smell. 
C3 We would recommend specialist testing of the fuel sample however it does appear 
that the current faults have occurred due to contaminated diesel fuel.
C4The repair would not be considered to have failed.
Now I appreciate Mr M disagrees, but Im satisfied that the above report can be relied upon. 
And because of this Im satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that the December 2019 
issue(s) werent as a result of a previous failed repair or repairs or as a result of a fault that 
was present, or developing, at the point of supply. I therefore make no award in this respect.
I note that Mr M says he wasnt allowed to be present when the inspection was undertaken. 
But even if this was the case, and I make no finding on this point, Im not persuaded the 
inspector would have been in anyway influenced by the supplying dealership and/or 
Startline. As stated in the report it was declared:
It is the duty of an expert [the inspector] to help the Court on the matters within his 
expertise. This duty over-rides any obligation to the person from whom he has received 
instructions or by whom he is paid. I understand my duty to the Court and have complied 
and will continue to comply with it and I am aware of the requirements of Part 35 and 
Practice Direction 35, this protocol and the practice direction on pre-action conduct.
The opinions I have expressed represent my true and complete professional opinions on 
the matters to which they refer.
[The inspector] is bound to act in a professional manner with utmost integrity and is 
subject to Company conduct rules, as well as complying with the Civil procedure rules.
I accept that I cant say for certain the car wasnt tampered with prior to inspection. But on 
the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that this is more likely than not. I would also 
add that just because other parties who have had access to the car for diagnostics and/or 
repair never mentioned contaminated fuel doesnt in itself cause me to question how much 
reliance I should place on the December 2019 inspection report. I would also reiterate the 
investigators findings that the various documentation provided by Mr M (in respect of 
diagnostics/repairs) simply identify there were faults with the car not what the underlying 
reasons for these faults might, or might not, be.I appreciate that prior to the December 2019 issue(s) manifesting themselves Mr Ms car had 
a number of repairs undertaken. But given that Mr M agreed to these repairs being 
undertaken, they were undertaken at no cost to him, and what the inspection report says 
about these repairs having not failed, I make no award in this respect.
lack of service history
I accept I cant say for certain what was discussed between Mr M and the supplying 
dealership about the cars service history and the documentation in respect of the same. But 
Ive seen a copy of the sales invoice and I note it makes no reference to the car coming with 
a service history of any sort. 
So, with the above in mind, and given Ive not seen any advertisements Mr M might have 
relied on when taking the decision to acquire the car I cant reasonably find that the car was 
represented as having been serviced and coming with a documented service history. 
Furthermore, and like the investigator, had this been an important factor in Mr Ms decision 
to acquire the car I might have expected him to have raised it as a concern with the 
supplying dealership and/or Startline at the time he took delivery, or shortly afterwards. Yet 
he didnt do so.
 Fuel filter date stamp
I note that the fuel filter (that was replaced in July 2020) bears a date stamp of 2011. But like 
the investigator Im not persuaded this is sufficient for me to be able to find that the fuel filter 
had never been changed. Amongst other things, this date could simply represent the date of 
manufacture with the part being held in stock, post manufacture, for a number of years 
before being fitted. I also think its worth pointing out that if this was the cause of the various 
problems Mr M has experienced with the car I might have expected this to have been 
diagnosed before it was in July 2020. I certainly cant conclude that the fuel filter needing 
replacing in July 2020 made the car of unsatisfactory quality when first supplied.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman