DRN-3844897
Complaint
Miss A is unhappy that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) closed her account and registered a fraud 
prevention marker against her.
Background
In July 2022, Miss As account received payments of £250, £100 and £1,000.00. £1,280.00 
of these funds were immediately transferred on to a third party. TSB subsequently received 
a notification from the bank responsible for sending the payments to Miss As account stating 
the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. As a result of its investigation, it 
decided to close Miss As account and recorded a fraud prevention marker.
Miss A complained and TSB looked at Miss As complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss A 
remained dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss As concerns. She didnt think that TSB had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For reasons that will become apparent further on in this decision, Ive started by looking at 
TSBs decision to record a fraud marker.
The marker that TSB has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss A is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that TSB must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
TSB also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss A was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Miss A allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss As complaint, I need to decide whether I think TSB had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss As account and that her actions suggest 
she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that TSB did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Miss A says the funds werent fraudulent and they were sent to her by a friend. She said she 
transferred the funds on to someone else because she owed them money. And after our 
adjudicator told Miss A that she wasnt upholding her complaint, she provided a screenshot 
of an email sent to TSB, purportedly from the person who transferred the £1,350.00 to her, 
stating that he hadnt been a victim of fraud and the funds were transferred to Miss A to buy 
essentials for his wife.
Ive thought about what Miss A has said and its still not entirely clear to me what shes 
saying happened here. I say this as Miss A has now provided a screenshot of an email 
purportedly from the individual who reported being the victim of fraud, saying the funds were 
for Miss A to purchase items for his wife. And this doesnt explain why she would then 
transfer the funds on to a third party, on the basis that she owed them money. 
Furthermore, the email provided was sent from an email account which the first name of the 
person is spelt differently from the person it is purported to be from. While I accept its 
possible that the person who reported the fraud and sent the email are one and the same, 
and the error in the first name is simply down to a mistake made when the email account 
was being set up, I dont think that this is likely and Im not persuaded that this is the case.   
So Im afraid that there are a number of factors which call into question the plausibility of 
what Miss A has said. And when all of these unanswered questions are weighed against the 
fact that TSB received a notification from the third-party bank responsible for sending the 
payment, stating that its customer had reported being a victim of fraud, I think that TSB was 
reasonably entitled to conclude that these funds were fraudulent. 
Equally given the implausibility of Miss As version of events, Im also satisfied that TSB was 
also reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss A was 
complicit in fraudulent activity taking place on her account. As this is the case, I dont think 
that it was unfair for TSB to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did.
I now turn to the closure of Miss As account. The terms and conditions of Miss As account 
state TSB could close an account without notice in certain circumstances. These included 
where a customer is using a service or money illegally (or allowing someone else to do so). 
Ive already explained why I think TSB was reasonably entitled to conclude that Miss As 
account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in 
recording the fraud prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted TSB to close Miss As account in the way that it did. And Im therefore 
not upholding Miss As complaint on this basis either.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss A. But I cant ignore the fact that the 
available evidence appears to indicate that its more likely than not she was complicit in 
fraudulent activity. So I hope that Miss A will understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Miss A might find that shes able to open an account with another bank as long as she applies for a Basic 
Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman