DRN-3538130
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Zurich Assurance Limited trading as Allied Dunbar Assurance 
plc (Zurich) wont pay interest on a backdated critical illness claim pay out from 2014 and on 
a refund of premiums. They want 8% interest to be paid, together with compensation.
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint has been referred to the Financial Ombudsman via a 
representative. But for ease, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs C throughout this decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In November 2000 Mr and Mrs C took out a joint whole of life policy. The policy included 
Lifestyle Plus Benefit, which Ill refer to here as critical illness cover.  
In 2014 Mr C was sadly diagnosed with a malignant tumour in his kidney. On 11 March 2014 
Mrs C telephoned Zurich to ask about making a critical illness claim. She says Zurich told 
her she didnt have a valid claim because Mr C had had the tumour removed and was 
cancer free. 
In 2021 Mr and Mrs C made a critical illness claim to Zurich in connection to Mr Cs 2014 
cancer diagnosis. They complained that Zurich had misadvised them about making a claim 
during the 11 March 2014 telephone call. 
Zurich said it had no record of the telephone call from 11 March 2014, and so didnt know 
what information Mrs C had provided about Mr Cs cancer diagnosis or what Zurich said 
about making a claim. So, it couldnt say it had done anything wrong. 
In January 2022 Zurich paid the claim. It accepted Mr C met the policy definition as of 
17 March 2014  and paid a value of £44,582.52. This included premiums paid on the policy 
from 1 May 2014 (£6,512.22)  as the policy terms say it ends at the point a critical illness 
claim is paid. 
Mr and Mrs C referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman. They said mis-advice from 
Zurich on 11 March 2014 denied them the opportunity of making a valid claim at that time. 
They wanted 8% interest on the amount paid in 2022, together with compensation for not 
having benefit of the money sooner. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. Having obtained a copy of the 
telephone note from 11 March 2014, she didnt believe there was any evidence to show 
Zurich misadvised Mrs C about making a claim. She said the note referred to the cancer 
being in situ  and therefore not covered under the policy. And that Mrs C was advised to 
call again if Mr Cs condition changed, which she didnt do. So, our investigator didnt think 
Zurich needed to pay Mr and Mrs C any loss of interest or compensation. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and have asked for an Ombudsmans decision. They said the 
telephone note didnt reflect the situation at the time. They said they wouldnt have referred 
to Mr Cs cancer as being in situ - as this was a term not familiar to them. They said they 
wouldve said the cancer was in Mr Cs kidney  but it was Zurich who wrongly assumed 
this meant the cancer was in situ and therefore not covered by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs C felt Zurich shouldve asked more questions during the 11 March 2014 
telephone call about the staging and grading of Mr Cs cancer. They thought it was unfair for 
Zurich to rely on information provided by lay customers, who are coming to terms with a 
cancer diagnosis and who have limited knowledge and understanding of complex medical 
terminology. Mr and Mrs C said Zurich had a responsibility to provide clear guidance to help 
them make a claim  and simply asking during a telephone call if the cancer was confined to 
Mr Cs kidney wasnt sufficient. 
Mr and Mrs C also added that they had no reason to telephone Zurich again, as Mr Cs 
condition didnt change. 
Mr and Mrs C were also concerned that Zurich had only been able to provide a copy of the 
telephone note from 11 March 2014 as part of the Financial Ombudsmans investigation  
having previously told them no records were available. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing news for 
Mr and Mrs C. I want to assure them that I didnt take this decision lightly and I understand 
this has been a difficult time for them. While I dont want to add to their distress, I cant say 
Zurich has treated them unfairly. Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Its not disputed that Mr Cs cancer diagnosis met the policy term in 2014. The medical 
evidence seen by Zurich when it assessed the claim last year shows Mr Cs cancer wasnt 
in situ and was in fact more advanced. And so, it met the cancer definition in the terms and 
conditions in Mr and Mrs Cs policy. 
Its also clear that no claim was made until 2021. So, the issue for me to decide is whether a 
mistake by Zurich directly resulted in Mr and Mrs C not making, what we now know wouldve 
been a valid claim, in 2014  meaning theyd have had the pay-out sooner. 
I cant say for certain what exactly was discussed during the 11 March 2014 telephone call 
as there is no recording available. But we do now have a note of the conversation. I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that this note has only come about as part of our 
investigation. But Ive seen no reason to question its validity or its contents.
Its clear there are conflicting opinions on what was discussed during the telephone call. So, 
Ive looked at all the available evidence, and the wider surrounding circumstances - including 
some medical evidence, to see what is most likely to happened. Mrs C said she was told there was no claim to make because the cancer had been removed and Mr C was cancer 
free. Zurichs note of the telephone call says it was told the cancer was in situ and therefore 
didnt meet the policy definition. 
The note of the telephone call is as follows:
[Mr C] has been diagnosed with cancer of the kidney and is being operated on on 
Monday of next week. Call was to check if claim could be made. Caller confirmed the 
cancer is thus far confined to the kidney and so is in situ. Confd in situ cancers not 
covered but gave caller Dis contact no. should her husbands condition change.  
Mr and Mrs C accept Mrs C wouldve told Zurich on 11 March 2014 that the cancer was in  
Mr Cs kidney. I think its more likely than not this was all the information they knew at that 
time, given the operation to remove Mr Cs kidney, and the histological grading of the 
tumour, wasnt carried out until 17 March 2014. I can see from the histology report that the 
cancer wasnt in situ. And Zurich has taken this report as evidence of when the policy term 
was met. 
I also agree its unlikely Mrs C wouldve used the term in situ during the 11 March 2014 
phone call. Again, I think its more likely than not that this was how Zurich categorised the 
cancer when Mrs C said it was confined to Mr Cs kidney. I dont think this was wholly 
unreasonable of Zurich. And it was right to point out to Mrs C that claims for in situ cancers 
arent covered under the policy. So, on balance, I cant say Zurich did anything wrong here. 
Mr and Mrs C think Zurich shouldve asked more probing questions during the 
11 March 2014 telephone call about Mr Cs diagnosis. I can understand the point theyre 
making. But given Mr C was awaiting his operation and histology tests, its not clear what 
more they couldve added beyond the cancer being confined to the kidney. And Zurich did 
suggest to Mrs C that she call back if Mr Cs condition changed. I appreciate that his 
condition didnt technically change  but more information did become available about the 
specifics of his diagnosis by way of the histology report. Yet Mr and Mrs C didnt contact 
Zurich again about the claim until 2021. I also recognise that Zurich had provided Mr and 
Mrs C with policy documentation that clearly set out how to make a claim and what was 
included under the critical illness cover. And so more information was available to Mr and 
Mrs C about the claim process than just what they were told during the 11 March 2014 
telephone call. 
Taking everything into account, I cant say Zurich made a mistake in March 2014 that directly 
resulted in Mr and Mrs C not making a claim at that time. 
Zurich has now paid the claim based on the value of the policy as of 14 April 2014 and has 
returned the premiums paid from 1 May 2014. A breakdown of how the payment was 
calculated was explained to Mr and Mrs C in Zurichs letter of 13 January 2022. So, Im 
satisfied Zurich has done what it should do in line with the terms and conditions of Mr and 
Mrs Cs policy.
I completely understand how having use of the money sooner wouldve been a great benefit 
to Mr and Mrs C during what was a difficult time for them. But because Ive not found Zurich 
treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly, I cant ask it to compensate them for any distress and 
inconvenience caused by not having the money sooner. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs C were hoping for. But I dont think Zurich has 
treated them unfairly and so I wont be asking it to take any action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman