DRN-2343626
The complaint
Mr F complains that Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) delayed paying him a savings account 
balance following the closure of his accounts with them. Hes also unhappy with the 
customer service he received.
What happened
In February 2020 RBS told Mr F that theyd be closing his accounts and gave him 60 days 
notice. Mr F opened another account with another business in March 2020 and switched his 
existing current account from RBS. 
Mr F says he tried to transfer the remaining balance in his savings account online with RBS 
before the end of the 60 days, but was unable to do so. Mr F says that due to COVID-19 he 
chose not to make a visit to branch to arrange the transfer.
RBS say they issued Mr F a cheque for the remaining balance at the end of the 60 days 
notice period. Mr F says there was a delay with the cheque which caused him financial loss. 
Mr F also says he wasnt sent account statements which delayed him being able to complete 
his tax return.
Mr F complained to RBS and although they didnt uphold his complaint, they issued him a 
cheque for £509.01. 
Mr F referred his complaint to our service for an independent review. Our investigator didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. She found that RBS hadnt done anything wrong that 
required further compensation to be paid. Specifically, she said the delay in closing the 
account and issuing the balance as a cheque was understandable given the ongoing 
COVID-19 pandemic. She also found that although Mr F said he suffered financially as a 
result of the delay, he had sufficient time before the end of the 60 days to arrange for his 
savings account balance to move to another account.
Mr F didnt accept our investigators assessment so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
On 13 February 2020 RBS wrote to Mr F to say it would be closing his accounts. It gave him 
60 days notice and suggested he make alternative banking arrangements. Mr F had several 
accounts with RBS at the time including a current account, and a savings account which 
held a significant balance. Mr F hasnt complained about RBS decision to close his 
accounts. But, for completeness, I think it was entitled to do so as the account terms and 
conditions allow for it, provided notice is given  which it was.
Mr Fs accounts remained available to Mr F during the closure notice period. I can see from 
his statements, for example, that he transferred money from his savings account to his 
current account, and then from his current account to an external account, on 11 March 
2020. Mr F could, therefore, have moved his money from his savings account had he wanted 
to do so.
RBS records show an account switch completed on 19 March 2020. This meant Mr Fs RBS 
current account had been moved to another provider and resulted in his RBS current 
account closing. Mr F could still view his savings account online. But he couldnt transfer 
money to the current account and then transfer the money to another bank - meaning he 
couldnt move money out of RBS using online banking. This wouldnt have been a problem if 
Mr F had moved the money from his savings account before the switch completed, or if hed 
arranged for the switch to happen closer to the account closure date.
Mr F thinks he should have been able to transfer from his savings account to an external 
account using online banking. I dont agree. His savings account was a non-payment 
account as set out in the account terms and conditions. Mr F says the above resulted in his 
money being unavailable to him which caused him a financial loss. But I think if hed 
contacted RBS for an alternative way of accessing his money, either through telephone 
banking or by visiting a branch, its more likely than not he would have been able to access 
his money. I cant see that he did either in a meaningful way. It follows that I cant fairly hold 
RBS responsible for his alleged losses.
Mr Fs account was due to close around 13 April 2020. From RBSs records, the account 
was closed on 16 April 2020, with a cheque for the remaining balance being issued the 
same day. RBS has said the cheque wasnt sent to Mr F until 20 April 2020, which it 
accepted was due to a delay in processing. Mr F received the cheque a couple of days later. 
Mr F is unhappy with the delay and says it caused him a financial loss. I can see why he was 
frustrated. But in my view, he ought reasonably to have made arrangements to access the 
money earlier - rather than rely on waiting for a cheque at the end of the 60-day closure 
period - had he had an urgent need of it. And I think, given the timing of processing the 
account closure and cheque  during a national lockdown, delays in processing and postal 
delivery were to be expected. Overall, I accept there was a delay. But Im not persuaded it 
was unreasonable or that it directly led to a loss for Mr F that RBS are responsible for. It 
follows that Im not going to ask RBS to compensate Mr F.
Mr F says he didnt receive some of his statements in early 2020. Its unclear why this is as 
he received statements before and after the time he says he didnt get them. RBS has 
confirmed, however, that they were available online for Mr F to download. I understand RBS 
agreed to send Mr F copies, but Mr F says he hasnt received those either. Thats 
unfortunate. But Im pleased to see our investigator has asked RBS to send another copy.
Mr F is unhappy with the customer service he received from RBS in relation to the above 
matters. I havent seen anything to make me think the service was poor to the extent that 
compensation is appropriate. I also note that RBS has sent Mr F a cheque by mistake for 
over £500  which I understand hes cashed. Im satisfied this money was sent in error as 
RBS didnt offer Mr F compensation and I cant see RBS held any of his money following 
Mr F cashing the cheque for the balance of his savings account. RBS has said it wont ask 
Mr F to pay back the money. I consider this a positive decision on the part of RBS.Summary
Overall, I think that RBS correctly handled the closure of Mr Fs account and have treated 
him fairly and reasonably. I know Mr F will be disappointed with this outcome. But my 
decision brings to an end what we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute with RBS  can 
do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman