DRN-3295647
The complaint
Mr H has complained that an agent acting for Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, trading as Hitachi 
Personal Finance (Hitachi) knowingly included false information in a credit application  
which he says has resulted in adverse entries on his credit report.
What happened
Mr H consulted his opticians about a procedure on his eyes.  He says he wanted to 
negotiate the price.  The opticians suggested this may be possible if Mr H agreed a payment 
plan.  Mr H provided the information requested by a member of the opticians staff who 
completed an online form.
Mr H explained that, although hed owned his home for many years, thered been a period of 
several months when he was living elsewhere.  He says the staff member said that didnt 
matter and didnt include the information.  Mr H says it was only after the form was 
completed and submitted he became aware that it was, in fact, an application for a credit 
agreement with Hitachi.
The application was declined.  Mr H believes this was because his temporary address wasnt 
included on the application.  So he contacted the staff member and asked her to correct 
what shed put on the form because he was concerned it would impact negatively on his 
credit file.  
But Mr H says nothing was done and Hitachi reported the declined application to fraud 
agencies.  So he complained to Hitachi about what had happened and asked them to 
remove all adverse information from his records.
Hitachi considered Mr Hs complaint.  They said his application was assessed using their 
credit scoring system, as well as information from a credit reference agency and fraud 
protection database.  And they said every lender has its own lending criteria.  As thats 
commercially sensitive, Hitachi said they wouldnt disclose it.  
Hitachi said it was Mr Hs responsibility to make sure the information on the application was 
accurate.  But they did confirm his credit file would show hed applied to them for credit, not 
that it was declined.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Hitachis response and brought his complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Hitachi didnt need to do anything differently to 
resolve it.  She noted Hitachi had considered the application in line with their lending criteria 
and information about the address which had been included.  So she was satisfied that not 
including Mr Hs temporary address didnt impact on the decision.  And she said it was fair 
for Hitachi to report the application had been made. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its not my role to say whether or not Hitachi should have lent to Mr H.  Rather  as our 
investigator explained  we look at whether Hitachi have dealt with an application fairly, in 
line with their lending criteria.  
Ive looked at the letter Hitachi sent to Mr H declining the application.  This details how 
Hitachi assessed the application and that they gathered information from a credit reference 
agency and a fraud prevention database.  
Its clear from what Ive read that Mr H believes his application was declined because the 
agent left his temporary address off the credit application.  I understand why hed come to 
that conclusion.  But, having considered the evidence weve received, Im not satisfied its 
fair for me to say thats what happened. I think the letter Hitachi sent him shows it was 
declined on the basis of the information considered  not because anything was left out.  
The letter told Mr H he could appeal Hitachis decision and/or ask for further information 
about how it was reached.  Its not clear whether he did that.  But Ive not seen anything 
which suggests the reason for declining was anything other than what was in the letter.  So I 
dont think Hitachi need to do anything differently in respect of this aspect of Mr Hs 
complaint.
Mr H also wanted any adverse information entered on his credit file as a result of the 
application removed.  Ive thought about this.  But I dont think Hitachi need to take any 
action.  
Credit files are relied upon across the financial spectrum  so they need to be an accurate 
record of someones history.  In this case, Hitachi have said they recorded a credit 
application had been made, but not that it had been declined.  Mr H hasnt provided a copy 
of his file, so Ive no reason to think thats wrong.  And hes made his own enquiries of other 
databases, which have confirmed they dont hold any data on him.  
So I dont think theres anything to evidence Mr H has been prejudiced by the application or 
how Hitachi have recorded it.  And, without that evidence, I dont think they need to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Hs complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint about Hitachi Capital 
(UK) Plc, trading as Hitachi Personal Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman