DRN-3104728
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt give her an envelope in branch 
when she withdrew a large sum of cash. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs As late husband passed away and she visited a branch of Nationwide to 
try and settle his affairs. Mrs A has explained she became upset and dissatisfied with the 
service provided by Nationwide so decided to withdraw a large sum of money held in her 
account. 
Nationwide handed Mrs A the cash over the counter but didnt offer her an envelope to put it 
in. Mrs A has explained she found the service provided by branch staff to be poor and 
upsetting. 
Mrs A complained and Nationwide apologised for the service provided in branch. Nationwide 
confirmed its branch staff shouldve offered Mrs A an envelope for her cash and paid her 
£75. 
Mrs As representative referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator thought 
Nationwide had dealt with Mrs As complaint fairly and didnt ask it to increase its offer or do 
anything else. Mrs As representative asked to appeal so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mrs A is unhappy about the way Nationwide handled the accounts of her late 
husband. In this decision, Im only looking at Nationwides actions in relation to Mrs As 
account and cash withdrawal. Im not going to comment on any issues that impact Mrs As 
late husbands accounts. 
I understand Mrs A took the decision to withdraw her cash from Nationwide and that it failed 
to offer her an envelope to place it in. Mrs A has explained that she was already upset due to 
the nature of her visit to Nationwides branch and that the service provided when she 
withdrew her cash made a difficult situation harder. I can see how upset Mrs A was at the 
service provided and I agree it wouldve been better if Nationwide had given her an 
envelope. 
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mrs As complaint. Nationwide paid Mrs A £75 and 
apologised for the service provided. In my view, the settlement Nationwide paid is a fair 
reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs A by failing to offer her an 
envelope and the service provided in branch. 
I can see Nationwide also apologised which I think is fair in the circumstances. In my view, 
Nationwide has dealt with Mrs As complaint fairly and paid compensation that reflects the 
trouble and upset caused. As Im satisfied Nationwide has dealt with Mrs As complaint fairly, 
Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Nationwide Building Society has 
already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman