DRN-2415906
The complaint
Mr F complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA refused to refund him under its buyer 
protection policy.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr F and his brother, who represents him in this complaint, bought two 
batches of massage guns and paid for them via Mr Fs PayPal account. They then resold 
one batch to various customers. One of their customers reported that his massage gun had 
exploded, and provided video evidence of the damage. Mr F refunded that customer, and 
then raised a dispute with PayPal, on the ground that the goods were significantly not as 
described. Mr F says that one of the batches  the one from which the exploded item had 
come  was refunded by PayPal. The other batch was not. So Mr F brought this complaint to 
our Service. He provided written evidence from three shops that the goods had been 
counterfeit and that they were unfit for purpose.
PayPal said that Mr F had not provided sufficient evidence to support his claim. It pointed out 
that under the terms of its policy, PayPal has sole discretion to decide whether to uphold or 
reject a claim, and that its decision is final. PayPal suggested that the items had been 
damaged by Mr Fs customers, rather than being defective in the first place. PayPal also 
said: No repairs or alterations should have been made to the item, as doing so would limit 
our ability to successfully resolve your case and would result in the cancellation of your 
dispute. PayPal also provided two certificates of compliance which the merchant had sent it, 
as proof that the goods were not counterfeit and complied with an EU directive. It added that 
Mr F had not complied with its deadlines, which is a condition which must be met for a claim 
to succeed.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She thought Mr F had provided plenty of evidence to 
prove that the goods had met the criteria to be recognised as significantly not as described. 
She thought it was fair to take this evidence into account notwithstanding that some of it had 
been provided after PayPals deadline, because it was available now, and because the 
deadline had been tight. She said no repair of the item had been made or attempted; Mr F 
had only taken the items to a repair shop to be examined. She did not agree that the 
problem had been that Mr Fs customer had damaged the goods; rather, they had been 
defective all along. She was not persuaded by the certificates of compliance that the goods 
were safe, partly because it was not clear that these certificates related to the goods in 
question, and partly because there was clear evidence that one of the items had exploded. 
She recommended that PayPal refund Mr F, and pay him interest on the refund at the rate of 
eight per cent a year.
PayPal did not accept that opinion. It said that it had required Mr F to provide written 
evidence from an independent third party, and that this evidence should have detailed the 
extent of the damage or clearly explain (sic) how the item received significantly differs from 
the item advertised. It said the information Mr F had provided had been too vague and had 
not met this requirement, and so he had failed to provide valid evidence. It re-iterated that 
PayPal has full and sole discretion to make a final decision about a claim. PayPal asked for 
an ombudsman to review this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although it is correct that the terms of PayPals buyer protection policy give PayPal full 
discretion in how to decide a claim, that discretion still has to be exercised in a rational, fair 
and evidence-based manner, and not arbitrarily or capriciously. Principle 6 of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys principles of business says: A firm must pay due regard to the interests 
of its customers and treat them fairly. Principle 8 says: A firm must manage conflicts of 
interest fairly, both between itself and its customers and between a customer and another 
client. It is within my remit to determine whether PayPal has complied with those principles 
in how it handled Mr Fs claim for a refund. I am not satisfied that it has, and so I uphold this 
complaint. I will explain why.
I have not seen evidence that PayPal upheld Mr Fs other claim, and besides, PayPal is 
entitled to reach different conclusions about different transactions if the evidence is different. 
So I disregard the outcome of that other claim. But that need not prevent me from taking into 
account the evidence that one of the massage guns exploded. I think that is compelling 
evidence. But its not the only evidence in this case.
When PayPal first asked Mr F to provide written evidence from a third party, he took the 
goods to a small, independent repair shop. I will quote from the letter which the shop gave 
him, which he passed on to PayPal. (I will omit the brand name of the product.)
[Mr F] has shown physical evidence that the product mentioned above does not 
function as it should and in no way does it match the design to the original [brand 
name of massage gun]. Having a well established repair centre myself, upon 
inspection I have thoroughly reviewed and examined these so called massage 
guns to be defective and not as described.
This letter was provided in time to comply with PayPals deadline. But it was not detailed 
enough for PayPal, and so it asked Mr F to try again. He went to another shop, this time a 
branch of a well-known household name chain store, and obtained a second letter, which 
said:
This item is clearly different to the massage gun seen online.
The gentlemen have shown me the product in store, I have compared it to the item 
in store, and it is not the specific item.
The item also doesnt work, it only works when being charged.
That letter was also provided in good time. But about two weeks later he obtained a second 
letter from that second store, which added further detail. It said:
The items brought in store today are clearly different to the Original Massage Guns 
purchased online. Mr F has provided physical evidence that the item is defective and 
not functioning as it should. I have taken a look at the products and can verify that 
they are clearly a replica to the original. The Massage Guns only operate when 
plugged in via a socket and still do not appear to switch on. This is clearly 
malfunctioning and is not as described as online.
On behalf of [chain] I can confirm the items are 100% faulty and a copy to the 
original [brand name].
Two weeks after that, Mr F went to a third store, another national chain, and obtained a letter which read as follows (I have corrected one spelling error):
I have taken a look at the massage gun brought in store ([shop name and branch 
location]) today 30th July 2020 13:53 and see that it is clearly defective. The item 
only turns on when plugged in via a socket, and still does not appear to operate at 
all. This is clearly malfunctioning and is not as described as the item purchased 
online. In conclusion, I can confirm the item is faulty and a copy to the original [brand 
name].
I think these last two letters are more detailed, because they each specify a particular fault, 
namely that the items dont work, and do not have the capacity to store electric charge when 
not plugged in. I think that these letters are more persuasive evidence that the compliance 
certificates. Mr F had not sold these items to his customers, so there is no reason to think 
that they were damaged by third parties. But for completeness, I also have no reason to 
think that the item which exploded (from the other batch) was damaged by the customer 
Mr F had sold it to either. It is far more probable that it was defective when it was sold to 
Mr F. I am also satisfied that as well as being defective, these were also counterfeit goods.
Both of these letters were provided late. PayPal had set Mr F a deadline of 30 June 2020, 
and the third and fourth letters were dated 15 and 30 July, respectively. I have noted that 
PayPals buyer protection policy requires evidence to be submitted in time, and that this is 
an essential pre-requisite for a claim under the policy to succeed. So my starting point must 
be to assume that PayPal was entitled to close his dispute and (if it was not satisfied with the 
evidence which he did submit in time) reject his claim.
PayPal says it made the decision to decline the claim on 9 July. I have not seen evidence of 
that. Mr F says that he was notified of the decision in late August, and Ive seen an email to 
that effect dated 27 August, well after he had supplied all four letters. But I have considered 
the position in the case of both dates.
If August is indeed the correct date (whether that was the date the decision was made, or 
only the date when Mr F was first told about it), then I dont think it would have been fair of 
PayPal to reject or ignore the evidence contained in the third and fourth letters when 
deciding the outcome of his claim. Missing a deadline seems to me to be entirely too 
arbitrary a reason to decline a claim if the decision to decline was made well after the late 
evidence has been supplied. In those circumstances, if that is what happened, I would not 
hesitate to uphold this complaint.
However, in case Mr F was first notified of PayPals decision on 9 July (or some other date 
earlier than 15 July), and the August email was just a follow-up email in response to his 
objections, then I have also considered whether PayPal was entitled to reject his claim on 
that date, given that its deadline had expired and the further evidence had not yet been 
supplied. That would certainly be consistent with its policy, and so my starting point, as Ive 
said, would be that PayPal did nothing wrong by declining the claim. But I think it would be 
fair and reasonable of me to depart from that, for the following reasons. Firstly, the deadline 
PayPal had given Mr F to provide further evidence, in addition to that already supplied, was 
very short  only three days. Secondly, the evidence already provided, while not as detailed 
as PayPal had asked for, was still compelling, in my view. Two independent retailers had 
examined the goods and found them to be both defective and counterfeit, and there was 
evidence from another third party (including video evidence) that an identical item from 
another batch, but sold by the same supplier, had exploded.
According to its policy, PayPal was entitled to form its own view about that evidence. So 
I must evaluate that decision with some degree of deference, on the basis that my role is 
principally to consider how PayPal applied its policy to the facts of Mr Fs claim, and that 
substituting my own view of the evidence is not the right place to start. But the Financial Ombudsman Service does not have rules of evidence, and so I am not obliged to ignore the 
evidence which Mr F submitted late just because he did not meet PayPals deadline. After 
taking into account all of the evidence in the round, I consider that I am entitled to depart 
from my normal approach, to reach a fair outcome, and that that would be the right thing to 
do in this case. So if the decision to reject Mr Fs claim was indeed made in early or mid-
July, then I think that PayPal ought to have re-opened the claim on receipt of the third and 
fourth letters and reassessed it on its merits. If it had done so, then I think that the right 
decision would then have been to uphold Mr Fs claim, and to refund the price he paid for the 
batch.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to:
Refund the transaction ($6,182.55), and
Pay Mr F simple interest on that refund at the rate of 8% a year, calculated from 27 
August 2020 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman