DRN-4082145
The complaint
Mr S complains about delays in transferring his pension from ReAssure Limited to another 
provider.
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the circumstances of whats happened here. So Ill just briefly 
summarise the chain of events as I understand them.
Mr S says he started trying to transfer his pension plan from ReAssure to another business 
on 18 May 2021. Mr S had moved to another country and hadnt updated his address with 
ReAssure at this time.
There was back and forth contact between Mr S, ReAssure and his attorney in the country 
he was living in for some time. And Mr S sent the identification documents required for the 
address change in February 2022. The documents were received by ReAssure in early 
March 2022.
Further correspondence continued with Mr S, his independent financial advisor (IFA) and 
ReAssure. However, there was no letter of authority on file for Mr S IFA to act in connection 
with his pension. So, ReAssure wasnt able to provide them with details. Mr S says during 
this time a number of calls were promised by ReAssure but not made, and that it didnt 
respond to emails.
Mr S complained about the delays and ReAssure responded on 10 August 2022. It agreed it 
shouldve been more proactive with some of its contact and offered Mr S £200 
compensation. Mr S didnt accept this and referred the matter to this Service as his pension 
transfer still hadnt completed.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He explained that there were necessary 
checks that ReAssure was required to complete when facilitating both a change of address 
and a pension transfer. However, he also explained that he felt ReAssure had caused some 
unnecessary delays. He thought that ReAssure should increase the amount of 
compensation to £350. Our Investigator also noted that ReAssure had agreed to carry out 
loss calculations once the transfer had completed, which he felt was fair.
ReAssure accepted the Investigators opinion but Mr S didnt. He disagreed that ReAssure 
had ever tried to contact his attorney. He believed ReAssure had deliberately delayed 
matters. Mr S asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. So it was passed 
to me to consider and make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 March 2023. In this, I said:
I want to assure Mr S that Ive read and considered everything he and ReAssure have sent 
us. If I dont go into detail or mention everything, its not because I havent thought about it. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of this service. Instead, Im going to focus on the crux of 
the complaint. That is the delays in Mr S transferring his pension and which of those delays I 
think ReAssure is responsible for.
When whats happened is in dispute, such as in this case, I have to make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities, that is what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
evidence I do have. In this case, when trying to build a timeline of events, Ive considered 
both what Mr S has told us and the notes hes provided, as well as the contact notes from 
ReAssure.
It seems from the contact notes of ReAssure that the main cause of delay, initially, was that 
Mr S hadnt previously told ReAssure about his change of address. This was always likely to 
cause some delays in transferring the pension. Furthermore, as Mr S lived abroad, this also 
wouldve complicated matters. ReAssure needs to make sure its following correct processes 
to ensure that the address change is done properly, securely and that it is in fact Mr S who is 
requesting the change. ReAssure has explained Mr S was living in what it considers a high 
risk country, so it wanted to ensure everything was done correctly for Mr S protection.
Based on this, I can understand why ReAssure was cautious about this and required further 
information. This wouldve of course taken some time.
Whilst there was contact between Mr S, his IFA and ReAssure during this time, I cant see 
that ReAssure was provided with the identification requirements it had requested until 7 
March 2022. So, whilst I understand why Mr S is frustrated, and there were times that 
ReAssure couldve responded to him sooner, I dont think its responsible for any delays 
leading up to this point.
Ive thought about Mr S belief that ReAssure didnt try to contact his attorney. However, I 
can see from the contact notes that ReAssure has noted attempts were made. These notes 
were made at the time, and I think its more likely than not that ReAssure did try to contact 
Mr S attorney but was unable to. This is understandable given factors such as time zone 
differences and the fact that his attorney was in another country.
ReAssure accepts that once it received Mr S identification, it shouldve referred the request 
to change his address to another department but didnt do so until 18 April 2022. This is the 
first avoidable delay I can attribute to ReAssure. At this stage ReAssure noted that it needed 
to speak with Mr S to confirm some details. Its record show that it tried to contact Mr S within 
five days of this. And I dont think this time frame is unreasonable.
Again, Im aware Mr S disputes that ReAssure has tried to contact him at times. However, I 
am persuaded its more likely than not that it did based on the contact notes Ive seen. 
Furthermore, I can see within these notes it left a voicemail with Mr S IFA who returned the 
call two days later. So, I think its likely ReAssure was being proactive at this stage. And, a 
letter was sent the following day to Mr S.
The contact notes then show that Mr S IFA again called on 11 May 2022. ReAssure still 
didnt have authority to deal with the IFA directly and Mr S address still hadnt been 
changed. The notes show that the IFA was provided with the overseas number for ReAssure 
and Mr S called ReAssure two days later on 13 May 2022.
It seems the change of address request was then reviewed again on 28 May 2022. The 
notes suggest that ReAssure had further concerns due to the country Mr S was living in and 
the manner in which the documents had been certified. However, I cant see that ReAssure 
took any further action at this time. It wasnt until 6 June 2022 that Mr S called in and was 
told that ReAssure wanted to speak with the person who had certified his ID. A complaint 
was logged at this time.I think ReAssure shouldve reviewed the identification documents once Mr S had called on 
13 May 2022. But, other than noting concerns it had internally, it took no further action until 
Mr S called on 6 June 2022.
ReAssure tried to contact the document certifier on 10 June 2022. It wasnt able to and, 
despite Mr S chasing ReAssure, it didnt attempt to contact the certifier again until 22 July 
2022. ReAssure was still unable to contact the certifier, but on 27 July 2022, it agreed that it 
could accept the information it had received in order to change Mr S address. The address 
was then updated.
So, it seems to me that ReAssure had enough information to amend Mr S address after he 
had called it on 13 May 2022, but it didnt do so until 27 July 2022. This is the second 
avoidable delay I believe ReAssure is responsible for.
Once the address was changed, I can see that ReAssure sent Mr S a pension transfer 
questionnaire on 3 August by email. ReAssure then issued its final response to Mr S on his 
complaint on 10 August 2022.
Im aware that Mr S has had further problems with ReAssure since it issued its final 
response to this complaint. And the transfer still hasnt completed. However, our rules 
require that any complaint needs to be referred to a business before we can get involved. 
This means Im only considering events and delays up until 10 August 2022. If Mr S wishes 
for our Service to consider complaints after this date, hed need to first complain to 
ReAssure and give it the chance to respond.
Based on what Ive said above, I think ReAssure is responsible for two avoidable delays up 
until it issued its final response. From 7 March to 18 April - 43 days. And, from 13 May to 27 
July  69 days. This is a total of 112 days.
In determining what ReAssure needs to do to put things right, Ive first thought about the 
amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by this matter. I think 
the fact that Mr S was living abroad, hadnt changed his address, and was relying on an IFA 
who didnt have the authority to discuss matters with ReAssure, has also contributed in part 
to the delays. That said, as Ive explained, I think ReAssure is responsible for delays of 112 
days.
This wouldve been a frustrating time for Mr S, and meant he had to make a number of calls 
and chase ReAssure more than he shouldve needed to. It wouldve also cost him to make 
additional calls from abroad. Our Investigator suggested £350 compensation was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Ive thought about this, but I dont think this is enough. So, 
Im currently minded to award £500 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused and a further £50 for calls made unnecessarily. Mr S hasnt provided evidence of the 
cost of these calls, but I think this represents a fair amount in the circumstances.
Moving on to the issue of financial loss. At present, its not possible for me to properly 
assess or make an award for financial loss because the transfer of Mr S pension hasnt 
completed. But ReAssure has confirmed in principle that it will consider whether Mr S has 
been disadvantaged once the transfer is complete. Although it hasnt said how it will do this, 
I would expect that it will work out a date on which Mr S pension transfer shouldve 
completed but for the delays, and if the value of the pension wouldve been higher on that 
date, it will compensate Mr S for this by paying the difference in value to his new pension 
plan. This is in line with the usual method of putting right a pension transfer delay. But, given 
my findings above, when ReAssure carries out this calculation I think it should account for 
112 days of delay up until 10 August 2022.However, I wish to make it clear that this decision doesnt bind ReAssure to not take into 
account further delays it may be responsible for after its final response of 10 August 2022 
(which is the date Ive considered matters up to). And it should think about any further delays 
it may be responsible for once the transfer is complete. If, once the transfer has completed 
Mr S isnt happy with the approach ReAssure has taken in respect of delays after 10 August 
2022, he may be able to refer this matter to us as a new complaint. But any new complaint 
will only take into account any delays after 10 August 2022. And Mr S will need to refer it to 
ReAssure in the first instance.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision by 13 April 2023. ReAssure 
accepted my decision. Mr S didnt respond. Ive now decided to proceed with my final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The findings from my provisional decision, set out above, should be considered part of my 
overall final decision. 
As ReAssure has accepted the findings I made in my provisional decision, and Mr S hasnt 
responded with any further comments, I see no reason to depart from the findings I originally 
made. So, Im going to uphold this complaint and tell ReAssure to put things right as set out 
above. 
Putting things right
Once the pension transfer has completed, ReAssure should work out what Mr S pension 
wouldve been worth 112 days prior, to account for the delays up until 10 August 2022. If the 
value of Mr S pension wouldve been higher on that date, it must compensate Mr S for this 
by paying the difference in value to his new pension plan. It should write to Mr S setting out 
its calculations and explaining whether a loss has occurred or not.
Again, I will state that this decision doesnt bind ReAssure to not take into account further 
delays it may be responsible for after its final response of 10 August 2022 (which is the date 
Ive considered matters up to). And it should think about any further delays it may be 
responsible for once the transfer is complete before paying any redress to Mr S. 
If, once the transfer has completed Mr S isnt happy with the approach ReAssure has taken 
in respect of delays after 10 August 2022, he may be able to refer this matter to us as a new 
complaint. But any new complaint will only take into account any delays after 
10 August 2022. And Mr S will need to refer it to ReAssure in the first instance.
ReAssure should also pay Mr C £500 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused and a further £50 for calls made unnecessarily. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 Rob Deadman
Ombudsman