DRN-3343187
The complaint
Mr B complains that the automated fraud detection system used by Lloyds Bank PLC 
incorrectly flagged, on two occasions, an on-line transaction he was attempting, which 
resulted in him being unable to have groceries delivered to his home.
What happened
Due to the Coronavirus pandemic, Mr B, who has a health condition, has said he only had 
his grocery shopping delivered to his home to reduce the risk of exposure to the virus.
He used the same supermarket on numerous occasions with no problems until 
1 August 2021 when he tried to order his groceries. Lloyds automated fraud detection 
system flagged the transaction as potentially suspicious, and sent Mr B a text to his mobile 
phone asking for confirmation that the transaction was genuine.
Mr B says he replied to this text, but the transaction still didnt go through in time and he lost 
the delivery slot, meaning he couldnt have any groceries delivered.
He found the same problem occurred again on 28 September 2021. Again, the transaction 
was flagged as suspicious, and again Lloyds sent Mr B a text. But on this occasion Mr B 
didnt reply as he didnt think he needed to, as hed previously verified a similar transaction 
with the same merchant. So he was again unable to complete his grocery shopping and use 
the home delivery service.
Mr B complained to Lloyds. He said he was unhappy that the second transaction had been 
stopped, as hed replied to the text the last time this occurred. He felt it was a waste of his 
time replying to the text a second time.
Lloyds apologised to Mr B, but explained that it hadnt made any error. It said it was following 
its anti-fraud process, and he would have to reply to the text to reset his card and make 
payments.
Mr B wasnt happy with this response so complained to our service. He said there was no 
reasonable explanation for blocking the transactions as hed used the same process to 
purchase his groceries from the same merchant previously. And that due to it being during 
the pandemic, Lloyds had prevented him from buying food for his family. He added that 
Lloyds had been unable to explain why hed been required to confirm the second transaction 
when hed done it for the first one.
Our investigator didnt think his complaint should be upheld. She had checked the terms and 
conditions of the account, and thought Lloyds were able to hold any transaction if its system 
considered it suspicious, and had a two-step process of validation should this occur. It had 
sent text messages to Mr B to confirm if the attempted transactions were genuine. She 
acknowledged that it must have been frustrating to have two genuine transactions fail, but 
she didnt hold Lloyds responsible for this as it hadnt made an error and had a duty to 
protect Mr B and his account from fraud.
Mr B didnt agree. He said, in summary, that whilst Lloyds were mistaken in its cancellation 
of the first transaction, it had been unfair and completely at fault to cancel the second. This 
was especially so given hed confirmed the first transaction was genuine. He also thought 
that given the government guidance at the time, Lloyds needed to have some flexibility in its 
system with this type of transaction. He said Lloyds system was at fault.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion of the investigator, for generally the same 
reasons. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, so I will explain why.
Firstly, banks such as Lloyds, are required to have systems in place to protect themselves 
and their customers accounts by identifying fraudulent transactions. And I can see that Mr B 
doesnt dispute this. But he thinks that the automated system that Lloyds uses is faulty and 
shouldnt have flagged his attempted payments to the supermarket, especially as hed made 
the same transaction previously, and hed confirmed on a previous occasion that it was 
genuine.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration here, especially as he was the one attempting the 
transactions so knew they were genuine. And hes said hed used the same online merchant 
previously without issue. 
But as Ive said above, banks have measures in place to protect their customers accounts. 
These will generally include, but are not limited to, things like fraud prevention systems and 
customer verification checks. 
Lloyds said their automated fraud detection system highlighted Mr Bs transaction as a 
potential concern, so it was subsequently blocked in order to protect his account, until they 
were able to verify it was legitimate. And it did this by requesting verification by a text to 
Mr Bs registered mobile phone. So, whilst inconvenient, and I can understand Mr Bs 
frustration that this meant he lost his grocery delivery slot, I think this was a reasonable step 
for Lloyds to follow. 
The fraud software  programmed with an awareness of a wide range of scams and fraud 
techniques  raised a suspicion about something in this transaction. Im not in a position to 
review the programming of that software, or to compare it with the wide range of methods 
used by fraudsters. Its enough for my decision to say that Lloyds can reasonably use and 
rely on automated fraud detection software to help them efficiently keep their customers 
accounts safe.
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds followed its own policy on security checks for online transfers. It 
treated the two attempted transactions as separate occurrences, and I think this was fair, as 
there is nothing to suggest a previous genuine transaction couldnt be followed by a similar, 
but fraudulent one. So, I cant fairly conclude it made an error when it subjected the two 
online payments Mr B had wanted to make to a security check. That said, I can understand 
that this was an inconvenient and frustrating experience for Mr S, especially given that the 
attempted transactions were genuine.Mr B has said that given the pandemic and the government stay at home guidance at the 
time, Lloyds should have had more flexibility in its systems to allow these types of 
transactions to proceed unhindered. But Im afraid I dont agree. With the increased use of 
on-line transactions, and so the potential increase in fraudulent use during this time, I think it 
was especially important that financial institutions proactively monitored on-line activity to 
protect its customers accounts. And this should include all types of purchases and 
merchants.
So, for all the reasons above, Im satisfied that Lloyds have in place a reasonable process to 
follow to protect its customers and itself from fraud, and it was reasonable to ask Mr B to 
respond via text to confirm a transaction was genuine.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman