DRN-3607493
The complaint
Ms T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of two scams.
What happened
Ms T says she was interested in earning some more money by learning how to trade, so 
filled in an enquiry form she found online. She was then called by a company who said it 
could help her learn how to trade. The company got her to create an account with a 
cryptocurrency exchange and on their trading platform. They would then call her to talk her 
through how to make trades. Ms T would send money from her HSBC account to the 
cryptocurrency exchange and use this to buy cryptocurrency. The cryptocurrency would then 
be sent from her account at the cryptocurrency exchange to the companys account. And 
she could then see the result of the trades on the companys trading platform.
Ms T says she was told she could withdraw her profits at any time, but the company would 
often make up excuses why she couldnt withdraw or try to persuade her to wait so she 
could have better returns in the future. Ultimately the company stopped responding to Ms Ts 
emails and she realised it was a scam but, as she had recently given birth at the time, she 
didnt take the issue any further.
Around a year later, Ms T says she received an email from a second company saying they 
knew she had been scammed and could help her get her money back. They said she would 
need to pay an amount upfront so they could start investigating her case and suggested she 
do more trading and that they would take a cut of the profits she made to pay for the 
investigation. Ms T sent further payments to her account at the cryptocurrency exchange 
and then on to the account details the second company gave her, and was given access to a 
trading platform to monitor her trades.
Ms T says she realised the second company was also a scam when she asked to withdraw 
some of the profit she had made but didnt get a response. The trading platform then showed 
the profit she had made had turned into a significant loss and the company told her they 
could only help if she invested further. Ms T then reported the payments she had made to 
HSBC.
Ive set out the payment Ms T made for each company below:
Date Amount Details
12 November 2018 £2 first company
15 November 2018 £18,000 first company
14 May 2019 £7,850 first company
27 April 2020 £2 second company
28 April 2020 £3,000 second company
8 May 2020 £2 second company
8 May 2020 £1,500 second company
28 May 2020 £3,000 second company
15 June 2020 £5,000 second company
22 June 2020 £5,000 second company
29 June 2020 £2,000 second company
7 July 2020 £750 second company
7 July 2020 £1,000 second company
Ms T has also mentioned a number of payments she made to other cryptocurrency 
exchanges. But as these payments were made using her card, HSBC has said these will 
have to be raised separately if Ms T wants to dispute these too.
HSBC investigated and said it felt some of the payments were covered by the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code), but some of them 
werent. It didnt agree to refund the payments that werent covered by the CRM code, as it 
didnt think Ms T had done enough research into the companies she was paying. But it did 
offer to refund 50% of the payments covered by the CRM code. Ms T wasnt satisfied with 
HSBCs response, so referred her complaint to our service.
I sent Ms T and HSBC a provisional decision on 4 July 2022, setting out why I felt HSBC 
should refund some of the money Ms T had lost. An extract from my provisional decision is 
set out below:
Does the CRM code apply to these payments?
Ive first considered whether the CRM code applies to the payments Ms T made as a result 
of these scams.
The CRM code is a voluntary code HSBC has signed up to, which sets out a number of 
circumstances in which firms are required to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of certain types of scam.
The CRM code took effect from 28 May 2019, so HSBC has said the payments Ms T made 
before this date arent covered by the code and the payments made after this date are 
covered. But the code also only covers payments where a customer paid funds to another 
person for what they thought were legitimate purposes, but which were in fact fraudulent. 
And in this case, all the payments Ms T made were to a cryptocurrency wallet in her own 
name rather than to another person.
I recognise that Ms T only set up the cryptocurrency wallet under the direction of the 
scammers. But I think the way the CRM code is written means that it doesnt apply to any of 
the payments Ms T made as a result of these scams.
Did HSBC do enough to protect Ms T?
Ms T accepts she made the payments herself by transferring money from her HSBC account 
to the cryptocurrency account. So while I recognise she didnt intend for the money to 
ultimately go to scammers, she did authorise these payments. And so, under the Payment 
Service Regulations, the starting position is that she is liable for the payments and HSBC 
doesnt have to refund them.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think HSBC 
should fairly and reasonably:Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether HSBC should have identified that Ms T was potentially at 
risk of fraud as a result of the payments she made, or otherwise done more to protect her.
The first payment Ms T made towards the first scam company was only for £2. So I wouldnt 
have expected HSBC to have identified this payment as unusual or out of character. But the 
second payment Ms T made was for £18,000. This was a large amount, a much larger 
amount than any other transactions made on the account in the previous months and used 
up almost the full balance of Ms Ts account. So I think HSBC should have identified that 
Ms T was at risk of fraud as a result of this payment and asked her further questions about it.
Its not for our service to dictate the checks HSBC should do or the questions it should ask. 
But HSBC should take steps designed to protect its customers from the risk of financial 
harm. And, in these circumstances and due to the size of this payment, I think it would be 
reasonable to expect those checks to include questions about the purpose of the payment 
and how well the customer knew the company they were dealing with.
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Ms T had been told to lie about the purpose of the 
payments. So if HSBC had asked about them, I think Ms T would have told it that the 
payments were for investments using cryptocurrency, that she had been contacted by the 
company after filling in a form online and that she was mostly communicating with the 
company via text message. As this kind of contact is unusual for a genuine company, I think 
HSBC should then have asked further questions about the company Ms T was dealing with 
and how the investments were supposed to work. And as the company was not regulated or 
authorised and the explanations theyd given Ms T about how the investments would work 
were unclear or illogical, I think these details would have made it apparent that Ms T was 
likely the victim of a scam.
HSBC is in a position of knowledge and authority in financial matters. So if it had warned 
Ms T at this point that she was likely the victim of a scam, I think this warning wouldve 
carried considerable weight with her. And I think she would have accepted she had been the 
victim of a scam and I dont think she would have made any further payments to this first 
scam company.
As there was a significant period of time between the last payment Ms T made to the first 
scam company and the first payment she made to the second scam company, I dont think it 
would be fair to say that the warning HSBC should have given her about the first scam 
company would have stopped her making any payments to the second scam company. So I 
also need to consider whether HSBC should have identified that Ms T was potentially at risk 
of fraud as a result of the payments to the second scam company.The first payment Ms T made towards the second scam company was again for only £2. So I 
wouldnt have expected HSBC to have identified this payment as unusual or out of 
character. And as the next few payments she made towards the second scam company 
werent for particularly large amounts and werent made so close together that there was an 
obvious pattern connecting them, I also wouldnt have expected HSBC to identify that any of 
the next four payments were unusual either.
But the sixth payment Ms T made towards the second scam company was for £5,000, which 
I think is a large amount and significantly larger than the usual transactions on her account. 
At this point Ms T had also made six payments to the same account over the previous seven 
weeks, with the most recent three payments increasing in size significantly each time. So I 
think HSBC should have identified this payment of £5,000 as unusual and part of a 
suspicious pattern of payments. I think it should have identified that Ms T was at risk of fraud 
as a result of this payment and asked her further questions about it.
I think it would be reasonable to expect the questions HSBC asked to have included 
questions about the purpose of the payment and the company Ms T was dealing with. And, if 
asked, I think Ms T would have said she had been contacted by a company offering to help 
her get her money back from a previous scam and that they had encouraged her to carry out 
trades to help pay for this work.
As companies asking for payment before carrying out work is a common type of scam, I 
think it would then have become apparent that Ms T was likely the victim of a scam. And if 
HSBC had explained this to Ms T I dont think she would have made any further payments to 
this second scam company.
So if HSBC had taken further steps to check whether Ms T was potentially at risk of fraud, as 
I think it should have done, I think the scams would have become apparent and Ms T 
wouldnt have made the second and third payments to the first scam company or the sixth to 
tenth payments to the second scam company. So I think HSBC should refund those 
payments to Ms T.
Did Ms Ts actions contribute to her loss?
While I do think HSBC failed to take sufficient steps to protect Ms T, I also need to consider 
her own actions and whether she should bear some responsibility for the money she lost. 
And having done so, I think I should make a deduction to the refund to reflect this.
I accept that these were both sophisticated scams. Both scam companies spent a significant 
amount of time communicating with Ms T, over the phone and via text messages, in order to 
build up her trust. And both scam companies gave Ms T access to fake trading platforms, 
where she could monitor the apparent profits she was making. I also accept Ms T isnt an 
experienced investor. But I still think Ms T should have had significant concerns about what 
she was being told.
From the copies of the communication Ms T has sent us between herself and the scam 
companies, it appears the returns she was told she could receive were too good to be true. 
She was told she could receive profits of up to ten times the amount she had invested, within 
a short period of time, and was told there could be no risk to her initial investment. And I 
think this level of returns, particularly with a guarantee that she couldnt lose her money  
which isnt a feature of any legitimate investment  should have caused Ms T concern.
I also think its reasonable to expect Ms T to have done further checks into who the 
companies she was dealing with were. Ms T says the first company sent her evidence it had 
employees and was registered. But this evidence all came from the company itself and she doesnt seem to have done any checks of her own or confirmed any of the information she 
was given by the company. And she doesnt appear to have done any checks into the 
second company before sending money to them either.
The explanations Ms T was given for how the trading would work also dont seem to be very 
clear. And Ms T has said she asked more questions as she didnt really understand, but was 
told they didnt have time to answer her questions  which I think should have caused her 
concern. The second company also asked her to pay significant amounts upfront before it 
would get her money back or do any work for her, which is not how legitimate businesses 
usually work and again I think should have caused her concern.
And the communication Ms T had with both scam companies shows she did have concerns 
over whether the companies were legitimate and about whether she was being scammed. 
But when she questioned this she doesnt seem to have been given any significant re-
assurances from either business, and so I dont think it was reasonable for her to then 
continue and assume everything was fine.
In the circumstances, I think Ms T must bear some responsibility for her loss. And I think it 
would be fair to reduce the refund HSBC should make by 50%.
I said Id consider anything further Ms T and HSBC sent in following the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms T said shed like to accept what I set out in the provisional decision.
HSBC also said it would agree to the proposed settlement from the provisional decision, but 
said it had already paid a refund to Ms T so asked that the settlement amount be reduced by 
the amount of this refund. And as HSBC has provided evidence showing this refund of 
£10,627 was already paid to Ms T on 30 October 2020, I think it would be fair for the 
settlement set out in the provisional decision to be reduced by this amount.
As neither Ms T nor HSBC submitted any further evidence or arguments about any of the 
other conclusions I made in my provisional decision, I still think those conclusions are correct 
 and for the same reasons.
I therefore still dont think HSBC did enough to protect Ms T, and so it should refund the 
second and third payments she made to the first scam company and the sixth to tenth 
payments she made to the second scam company. And I think Ms T should bear some 
responsibility for the loss, so it would be fair to reduce this refund by 50%.
HSBC should then refund Ms T 50% of the second and third payments she made to the first 
scam company, and 50% of the sixth to tenth payments she made to the second scam 
company. This is a total of £19,800 but, as HSBC has already refunded £10,627, the 
remaining refund is £9,173. HSBC should then pay interest on that amount.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:Refund Ms T 50% of the second and third payments she made to the first scam 
company, and 50% of the sixth to tenth payments she made to the second scam 
company, minus the refund it has already provided  for a total of £9,173
Pay Ms T 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date the payments were made 
until the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman