DRN-2879361
The complaint
 Mr C complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy) didnt treat him 
fairly when they decided to cancel his motor insurance policy. 
Although Mr C complained to us about his broker, Markerstudy is the underwriter and is 
responsible for any decision to cancel a policy. So in this decision Ill only refer to 
Markerstudy, although Mr Cs contact was mostly through his broker.
 
What happened
Mr C got a new car  his first - on 19 June 2019. His father was driving the car home after its 
purchase when they were stopped by the police. Although Mr Cs father thought he was 
insured to drive the car through his own insurance, hed been driving whilst it was uninsured. 
So the police asked Mr C to purchase motor insurance by the roadside. Mr C arranged his 
insurance online through a price comparison website while the police waited.
Mr Cs father says the police told him hed be issued with a pending driving conviction - an 
IN10 - for driving without insurance. But he says this happened after Mr C had arranged the 
insurance for his new car. So Mr C didnt tell Markerstudy about his fathers pending 
conviction when he arranged the insurance. He says he didnt know that his father would be 
given penalty points for driving the car home from its purchase without insurance. So he 
says he couldnt have disclosed this to his new insurer when buying the insurance. 
But Mr C contacted Markerstudy on 20 June 2019 to let them know his father had been 
issued with an IN10. He was initially told this wouldnt affect his policy. But later on he was 
told that Markerstudy would cancel the policy for the non-disclosure of his fathers penalty 
points at the time the policy was taken out. 
Markerstudy considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which they felt 
entitled them to cancel the policy. They gave Mr C a seven-day notice of cancellation on 20 
June 2019.  But he decided to cancel his insurance policy himself that day. 
Mr C then took out a new policy with another provider. But the new policy cost him a lot more 
than his original one as hed told the new insurer about the cancellation of the previous 
policy. 
Mr C complained to Markerstudy as he was unhappy he would have to disclose a 
cancellation by insurer to his new insurers. In their final response letter of 21 October 2019, 
Markerstudy confirmed that as the notice of cancellation hadnt been posted to him before he 
called to cancel his policy, he didnt need to disclose a cancellation by insurer to his new 
insurer. As a gesture of goodwill they refunded the £55 cancellation fee Mr C had been 
charged. 
Mr C brought his complaint to this service. He explained that hed been financially impacted 
as the replacement insurance hed had to buy had cost considerably more than his original 
insurance. He wanted Markerstudy to pay him back for the price difference between the 
policy hed had to take out with the new insurer and the premium theyd originally agreed to 
charge him. He also wanted compensation for the additional future costs he thought the 
cancellation would cause. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. She felt Markerstudy should pay Mr C the 
difference between the original premium and the premium charged by the new insurer. In 
addition, she felt Markerstudy should pay Mr C £200 compensation in recognition of the 
trouble and upset theyd caused him. 
Markerstudy agreed to pay Mr C £200 for the trouble and upset. But they didnt agree to 
cover the difference between the premiums. They said that the new premium would include 
the impact of his fathers penalty points, which their premium hadnt. And they said that Mr C 
should be able to ask his new insurer to recalculate the premium after removing the 
cancellation.
So this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 May 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Markerstudy thinks Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he failed to disclose his fathers potential driving conviction. 
Ive looked at the questions Mr C was asked through the price comparison website. The 
relevant question was Have you committed any driving offences or had any Fixed Penalty 
Notices in the last 5 years?. Mr C answered this question No, for both himself and his 
father. At this point, he didnt think his father had committed any driving offences in the last 5 
years. He hadnt been made aware that the police were going to charge his father.
I can see why, under the circumstances, Mr C didnt state that his father had committed a 
driving offence at that point. Im satisfied that he probably didnt realise there would be 
further consequences for his father. The question didnt, as Markerstudy have suggested, 
ask for potential pending convictions. But it did ask about committing any offence. Mr C says 
he found out about the pending driving conviction after he took out his policy. So he told 
Markerstudy about it following day.
Im not persuaded that Markerstudy acted fairly and reasonably when they decided Mr C had 
misrepresented his fathers driving conviction history. At the point he completed the online 
questionnaire, he answered the questions honestly. He wasnt in a position to know his 
father might be given penalty points. There was nowhere on the online questionnaire to disclose what had happened to his father that day. So Im persuaded that Mr C didnt fail to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And I intend to uphold the complaint. 
I acknowledge that an offence was committed. Mr Cs father drove the car without insurance. 
That offence did happen before and up to the point that he was pulled over by the police.
So when Mr C answered no to Have you committed any driving offences or had any Fixed 
Penalty Notices in the last 5 years? this wasnt strictly correct. As his father had just 
committed a driving offence.
But having looked at all the evidence, Im persuaded that Mr C didnt fail to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation. I do understand why its possible to reasonably 
interpret any driving offence as the one Mr Cs father was about to be charged with. But 
based on what Mr C has said Im persuaded that he didnt realise his father was going to get 
a fixed penalty notice. So Im satisfied he didnt fail to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. 
Under the circumstances here, I cant be certain that its fair to say there was a 
misrepresentation. But even if I did accept that there was, Im satisfied that Mr C didnt fail to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
So under CIDRA, Markerstudy had no remedy. And they shouldnt have issued the 
cancellation notice. So Im persuaded that Markerstudy didnt treat Mr C fairly or reasonably 
when they did.     
Mr Cs father was issued with a pending driving conviction - an IN10 - on the same day as 
the policy was started, but after itd been taken out. 
Markerstudy have confirmed their process where a pending driving conviction is issued after 
a policy has started. They said if the date of the IN10 was after the policy was taken out, 
then we could not take any action until the renewal of the policy, at which point, we would 
have declined to offer renewal based on the new risk. This shows that they shouldnt have 
proposed the cancellation of the policy when they did. In fact, the only option that shouldve 
been open to them wouldve been to decline renewal on 19 June 2020. 
Markerstudy have also told us It is correct that if the offence occurred after the inception of 
the policy, we would not apply any terms until the renewal of the policy. However, as this has 
occurred prior to the inception of the policy, we would look to apply terms on the existing 
policy. In this case, had this been referred to our Underwriters when we became aware of 
the offence, we would have applied an additional premium. But Markerstudy didnt refer the 
policy to their underwriters. So options such as removing Mr Cs father from the insurance 
policy werent considered.
Markerstudy did tell Mr C that the policy cancellation wouldnt be treated as a cancellation 
by insurer. But only some months after hed taken out a new policy with another provider. 
So hed already disclosed what he reasonably thought was the cancellation by insurer. And 
this led to a much higher premium, even though his father wasnt a named driver on the new 
policy. Mr C named his mother on his new insurance policy instead. And she had no penalty 
points on her licence.
Mr C has explained the situation to his new insurer, but at present they still believe he 
shouldve declared the cancellation by insurer. So theyve declined to recalculate his 
premium. 
Putting things rightI intend to ask Markerstudy to pay Mr C £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this situation has caused him. I can see that theyve already agreed to do 
this.
I acknowledge that Markerstudy has told this service that the cancellation by insurer 
marker has been removed. But I intend to require Markerstudy to amend any remaining 
records  internal and external - so that they show the policy as cancelled by Mr C, not the 
insurer.
  
I also intend to ask Markerstudy to provide Mr C with a letter saying that the June 2019 
cancellation wasnt a cancellation by insurer. He can then present this to his new insurers 
to ask for a refund of any additional premium hes paid. Markerstudy should provide this 
letter by 17 June 2021. 
If the new insurers continue to decline to pay Mr C a refund, Markerstudy should refund Mr C 
the additional premiums, on provision of reasonable evidence of this. I acknowledge that 
Markerstudy have said that the new cover wouldve factored in the penalty points given to Mr 
Cs father. But this isnt the case. Mr Cs father wasnt a named driver on the new policy.
The new policy cost £2,300. The original Markerstudy policy cost £1,278.90. So if the new 
insurers decline the refund, Markerstudy should pay Mr C the difference - £1,021.10. They 
will need to add simple interest at 8% from the 24 June 2019 to the date of settlement. This 
is because theyve unfairly caused Mr C to be without those funds.
Response to my provisional decision
Markerstudy didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr C accepted my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. 
  
Putting things right
I require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to take the following actions:
Pay Mr C £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Amend all internal and external records to show the policy as cancelled by Mr C, not 
cancellation by insurer
Provide Mr C with a letter confirming that the June 2019 cancellation was not a 
cancellation by insurer
If his insurer for the policy year starting 24 June 2019 declines to refund Mr C for the 
additional premium it charged him for cancellation by insurer, refund Mr C 
£1,021.10 plus simple interest at 8% from 24 June 2019 to the date of settlement
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to take the actions detailed in the Putting 
things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman