DRN-1373551
The complaint
This complaint is about the service Ms S received when she made what turned out to be an 
abortive mortgage application through Patrick ODonovan Financial Solutions Ltd (POD).
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the 
informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral. Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Ms D when my decision is 
published.
Ms S needed a re-mortgage to release her former partner from their existing joint 
commitment. She approached POD, but when things didnt go right for her, Ms S contacted 
us. She was unhappy that POD had apparently made multiple applications on her behalf, 
and that after an excessive amount of time, she was turned down for a mortgage because 
her income had been recorded wrongly.
We referred the complaint to POD so that it could look in to it first; POD told us that a first 
application to a lender Ill call N failed because it required proof of income in a form that 
wasnt available. A second application was then made to a lender Ill call S. POD says that 
application was accepted but that Ms S said she wanted to cancel it. 
POD says it refunded Ms S fees only for her to change her mind and say she wanted to go 
ahead after all. POD said it had agreed to do so if she paid the fee again, but instead Ms S 
had contacted us with the complaint. Ms S provided a copy of the application form that POD 
had submitted to lender S, pointing out various factual errors, including but not limited to, the 
amount of her income. 
With only that limited information to go on, our investigator though it likely that POD had 
submitted the application to lender S with errors on it, thus causing delays; she 
recommended it pay Ms S compensation for her time, trouble and effort (she initially said 
£200 but then amended that to £250). POD called in on 19 November 2019 to say it 
disagreed. The investigator explained that it could ask for a review by an ombudsman but 
would need to provide information to demonstrate it had acted reasonably. 
Weve heard no more from POD, and so the case has been passed to me to review and 
decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIll start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached broadly the 
same conclusions as the investigator, and for much the same overall reasons.
It seems to me that the crux of the matter here isnt the initial application to N; its about what 
happened with the application to S. We have two differing versions of events, and not an 
awful lot of corroborating evidence to support either. That said, what little evidence we do 
have  that is, the application form sent to S with errors that had to be corrected - tips the 
balance in Ms S favour, albeit only just. 
Its fair to say POD has had ample time to produce any evidence it has to support its position 
(for example, evidence that lender S had agreed to provide a mortgage), but hasnt taken the 
opportunity to do so. Overall Im persuaded on balance that POD contributed to Ms S 
attempts to unwind her joint financial arrangements being more stressful and time-
consuming than necessary. In the circumstances, I understand why she may have been 
uncertain about continuing to proceed with POD, and I find it fair and reasonable that POD 
should pay Ms S £250 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint by ordering 
Patrick ODonovan Financial Solutions Ltd to pay Ms S £250. I make no further order or 
award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which 
means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman