DRN-3873948
The complaint
Mrs A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money she lost to a scam.
What happened
Mrs A fell victim to an investment scam. She believed that a third party was helping her to 
successfully trade cryptocurrency. Under instructions from the fraudster and allowing them 
control of her computer through remote access software, she made payments from her 
HSBC current account to a genuine cryptocurrency provider (that Ill call C) and used that 
money to purchase cryptocurrency. Mrs A says the fraudster then sent her cryptocurrency 
from C to wallets that they controlled. Mrs A made ten bank transfers to C and one card 
payment. 
Mrs A could access a trading platform which appeared to show the success of her 
investment. As time went on, she was persuaded to invest increasingly large sums. She took 
out a loan with a third party to fund some of the final payments.
When she asked to withdraw money from the platform, she was met with delays. Eventually 
she realised shed been scammed and reported the matter to HSBC. It said that it wasnt 
responsible for her loss.
Mrs A referred the matter to our service and one of our Investigators upheld the complaint in 
part. They thought that HSBC should have found the eighth bank transfer Mrs A made to C 
to be suspicious, as it was significantly higher than the payments that had gone before. They 
thought that had HSBC questioned that payment, it would have come to light that Mrs A was 
falling victim to a scam and the loss would have been prevented. But they thought that Mrs A 
should have done more due diligence before investing and should have found the fraudsters 
claim that she could make £250,000, in a relatively short space of time, to be too good to be 
true. So, they recommended that HSBC refund 50% of the final three payments  totalling 
£10,000, as well as pay 8% simple interest on that amount.
Mrs A accepted our Investigators recommendation. HSBC did not. In summary, it argued:
-At the point of the suggested intervention, Mrs A had made seven previous 
payments, over a number of months, to C. It was reasonable for it to treat the payee 
as a known and trusted recipient at that point. 
-Mrs A had received impactful and prominent warnings about investment scams both 
a few days before, and while making, the first payment to C. 
Had Mrs A followed the advice in that warning she would have seen that the 
Financial Conduct Authority has issued warnings about the dangers of investing in 
cryptocurrency and she would have been unable to establish that the fraudulent 
investment company was authorised to offer financial services.
-Given that those warnings were ignored, its reasonable to think that she would have 
ignored any other warning that the bank would have given.
-The returns were too good to be true.
-Mrs A was also taken in by persuasive scammers and was likely to have trusted 
them over advice given by the bank. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point under the relevant regulations is that Mrs A is responsible for payments 
shes authorised herself. But taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time these 
payments were made, I think HSBC ought, fairly and reasonably, to have been on the 
lookout for out of character and unusual transactions and other indications that its customer 
might be at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Ive thought carefully about the transactions in dispute here. I can see that they did take 
place over a number of months  beginning in July 2021 and ending in November 2021. I 
understand HSBCs argument that, by October 2021 (when the eighth bank transfer took 
place) C was already an established payee. But Id expect HSBC to be aware that 
investment scams often take place over several months. The eighth bank transfer was the 
second payment to take place in two weeks and represented a significant increase in value 
from the previous payment. I think a concerning pattern had emerged by this point  Mrs As 
payments to C had increased significantly and the £5,000 payment was much higher in 
value than any other genuine payment that took place prior to the first payment in dispute. 
So, fairly and reasonably, I think HSBC should have intervened and discussed this payment 
with Mrs A prior to it debiting her account.  
Had it done so, I think its more likely than not that the scam would have come to light and 
the loss would have been prevented. 
I dont think the fact Mrs A made the first payment in dispute despite being presented with a 
written warning demonstrates that she would have ignored a tailored, verbal warning. The 
warning she saw while making the first payment doesnt specifically describe any of the 
features of cryptocurrency scams. While it may have directed Mrs A to the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) website to check the company is genuine and authorised, Im not sure 
Mrs A would have necessarily understood the significance of this. But even if she had 
checked the FCA website she would have only seen that the fraudulent investment company 
didnt appear to be authorised. Given the unregulated nature of cryptocurrency, it would 
have been very easy for a fraudster to explain this away. 
In contrast, a conversation about the eighth bank transfer would have likely brought to light 
some features of the scam which ought to have been deeply concerning to HSBC - the 
existence of a third-party broker, the use of software to take control of Mrs As computer, the 
involvement of a trading platform and the unrealistic returns. Those are all hallmarks of this 
type of scam and Id expect HSBC to have been well aware of them. I dont know whether 
Mrs A would have revealed some or all of this information to HSBC, but I havent seen 
compelling evidence to suggest she wouldnt have done. Ive examined her, fairly extensive, 
written conversations with the fraudsters (though I havent been able to hear the telephone 
conversations she had) and Ive seen nothing to suggest that she was asked to, or agreed 
to, lie to the bank and disguise the true purpose of the payments. That means, I think that, on balance, had HSBC intervened on the eighth bank transfer, its 
more likely than not that the scam would have come to light and the loss from that point on 
would have been prevented. 
Ive also thought about Mrs As role in what happened. I dont wish to hold her to too high a 
standard, but I think she ought to have acted more cautiously by the eighth bank transfer. 
Not only had she carried out little due diligence into the investment company and seemed to 
believe she could have achieved very high returns, but it also appears that prior to the eighth 
bank transfer shed asked to withdraw money but had been unable to. I think this should 
have caused her significant concern.
Finally Ive considered HSBCs attempts to recover Mrs As money but, as the funds were 
sent to a cryptocurrency account held in Mrs As name, recovery would not have been 
possible. 
Overall, Im sorry that Mrs A has been the victim of a cruel scam. I think HSBC should have 
prevented some of Mrs As loss (from and including the eighth bank transfer), but that Mrs A 
should share liability for those payments. So, HSBC should pay Mrs A £10,000 as well as 
8% simple interest on that amount from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold in part this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc and instruct it to pay Mrs A:
-50% of bank transfers eight, nine and ten  totalling £10,000.
-8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date of each payment to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman