DRN-4424265
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tempcover Limited didnt start his temporary motor insurance policy at 
the time hed requested and didnt provide him with clear information about it.
What happened
In mid-2023, Mr S took out a temporary motor insurance policy which was arranged and 
administered by Tempcover. The policys duration was 24 hours.
 
Shortly after Mr S took out the policy online, he was stopped by the police. He then found 
that his insurance wasnt yet active at the time hed been stopped. The police seized Mr Ss 
vehicle. So, Mr S had to take out impound insurance and pay for the car to be removed from 
the impound.
 
Mr S raised a complaint with Tempcover. He was unhappy that the insurance hadnt started 
at the time hed selected online. He felt Tempcover was responsible for his financial loss and 
the inconvenience hed experienced.
Tempcover said the policy start time was presented to Mr S at the point of purchase and it 
was also showing in the confirmation email it had sent him. It said that if a policy start time is 
manually selected and it is too close to the payment completion time, its system allows ten 
minutes for the payment to complete and the document to be generated. 
Tempcover said that although it had provided Mr S with his policy start time upon the 
purchase of it, it agreed that the policy start time was generated a significant time ahead of 
the completed payment. It offered to refund Mr S the full cost of both the temporary 
insurance policy and the impound vehicle policy hed purchased as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr S remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. He also let us know 
that hed been summonsed to court and had instructed a solicitor to deal with the case. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
He didnt think the ten minute delay in the cover start time was unreasonable and was 
satisfied Tempcover had provided clear information about it. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said the confirmation of purchase said 
the policy would start at the time hed picked, and he had no reason to believe it would start 
eight minutes later. He didnt think it was fair to expect him to read the email hed received 
from Tempcover a minute before the expected start time. He didnt agree it was fair for 
Tempcover to delay coverage without warning and suggested it make changes to its 
website. 
Mr S believed Tempcover had unilaterally altered the policy start time without his consent. 
He said if hed been informed of the delay before it had accepted his payment, he could 
have explored alternative providers. 
Mr S also made several comments about why he thought Tempcover was in breach of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidelines.
As Mr S disagrees with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mr S that Ive considered everything hes told our service, but Ill be 
keeping my findings to what I believe to be the crux of his complaint. If I havent mentioned a 
particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its 
just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Tempcover says Mr S took out the policy via a comparison website at 20.15. He completed 
the quote form and selected a policy start time of 20.20. Its records show that Mr Ss 
purchase was completed at 20.18 and the policy start time was 20.28.
Tempcover has provided a screenshot to show the notification Mr S would have seen on the 
website when the purchase completed. This includes the policy date and start time. 
Tempcover has also provided a copy of the confirmation email that was sent to Mr S and a 
screenshot showing that the email was sent to him at 20.19 and opened at 20.30. This email 
also shows the policy start date and time of 20.28. 
The certificate of insurance (which also shows the policy start date and time) was available 
to download if Mr S had clicked on a link on the email. Beneath the link there is information 
about updating the Motor Insurance Database (MID). It says that due to the short-term 
nature of the policy, it may have expired before the details are loaded into the database. It 
recommends the customer prints or downloads their documents to take on their journey 
should they be stopped by the police.
Mr S has confirmed he didnt open the confirmation email until after he was stopped by the 
police. Hes also commented that he used his mobile phone to purchase the policy and may 
have seen the first part of the confirmation saying your temporary vehicle insurance is ready 
to go! You can relax now, everything is taken care of. Your temporary insurance policy is in 
place and will begin at the time you selected. He says he wouldnt have felt the need to 
scroll down as hed put the start time as 20.20. He had no reason to think it would start at 
20.28.
I appreciate Mr S assumed the policy started at the time hed requested. However, 
Tempcover has explained the reason for the ten minute delay. Im not persuaded that 
Tempcover has acted outside of the FCAs guidelines as Mr S has suggested. Mr S would 
have been eligible to claim benefit under the policy. He just needed to wait another eight 
minutes before beginning his journey. It also seems unlikely that he would have found an 
alternative provider to offer insurance to start much sooner in such a small timeframe. 
I acknowledge what Mr S has said about the wording on the confirmation. However, the start 
time is clearly stated beneath this on the website confirmation and email. So, Im satisfied 
that Tempcover provided Mr S with clear information about the start time. Its unfortunate that Mr S didnt read the confirmation or email before he set off on his 
journey and that he got stopped by the police so soon after he completed his application. 
From the information Ive seen, it appears that Mr S was found to be driving at significantly 
above the speed limit two minutes before the policy started. I dont have enough information 
to tell me if he would have been stopped if he hadnt been speeding. 
Tempcover has provided us with a copy of the email it sent to the police explaining that Mr S 
purchased his policy before he was stopped, and that it was likely hed assumed the policy 
had already started. Its also shown that it asked the underwriter of the policy if it would be 
willing to provide a letter of indemnity to Mr S, but this was declined.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr S, but overall, I think Tempcover has acted 
fairly and reasonably. Im satisfied that Tempcover provided Mr S with clear information 
about the policy start time. So, I dont think its responsible for Mr S being found to be driving 
without insurance. Tempcover offered to refund the cost of both policies, which I understand 
Mr S has accepted. It also did what it could to try to assist Mr S by contacting the police and 
the underwriter. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman