DRN-1642117
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) restricted or closed his accounts causing 
him inconvenience and failed to enable access to online systems in the manner he wanted.
What happened
Mr C opened various accounts with HSBCs brand First Direct (HSBC) in 2004 but has lived 
overseas for a number of years. He didnt use the facilities often, holding current, deposit 
and credit card accounts. HSBC wanted to re-verify his identity and address to meet the 
know your customer requirements. It says it sent several letters about this from 2015. 
There were two options for Mr C to re-verify his identity in the way HSBC wanted; sending 
copy documents certified by a suitably qualified professional or uploading uncertified 
documents via an online portal. 
Mr C didnt reply and so HSBC began adding restrictions to the accounts. Mr C did write to 
HSBC in January 2017. He said certifying documents was expensive and enclosed 
uncertified copies instead. He raised a query about the credit card account. HSBC replied by 
email and provided the portal link. It asked him to call about the card. HSBC say Mr C didnt 
respond to this email. 
HSBC closed the credit card account later that year and progressively applied further 
restrictions to the other accounts. 
Mr C says he wasnt aware of the restrictions until he tried to use the accounts on holiday in 
July 2019. He called HSBC. It said it needed to verify his identity to remove the restrictions. 
Mr C asked about costs and HSBC said it would cover reasonable costs. During this call Mr 
C mentioned the credit card and was told he didnt have one, which annoyed him. 
Whilst still on holiday Mr C saw a notary, who copied his passport. When he got home Mr C 
wrote a letter of complaint about various issues. This including accessing online systems via 
a physical security key, which he said he had requested in 2017. He included the copy of the 
passport and an original uncertified utility bill. 
HSBC didnt uphold his complaint. It said it still needed to verify his identity as the 
documents sent werent acceptable. It said the credit card hadnt been used for a long time 
so the account had been closed. Mr C could apply for a credit card, but only if he was UK 
resident. HSBC sent the physical security key and said Mr C would need to call it to disable 
the existing digital security key before this would work. 
In reply Mr C queried HSBCs procedures and raised other points, including how HSBC sent 
international mail, which he said was unacceptable. HSBC said it had been requesting the 
identity information for sometime and it couldnt remove restrictions until the information was 
provided. It said the accounts werent designed for non-UK residents and that it was happy 
with its postal arrangements. It said Mr C was free to close the accounts and transfer his 
funds if he wished.
Mr C had already referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
said it wasnt clear exactly what had happened with the credit card. But it hadnt been used 
since 2008.  HSBC said it usually closed dormant accounts after asking the customer and it 
had asked Mr C to contact it in January 2017 without reply. 
Our investigator said HSBC had issued the security key requested and Mr C needed to 
contact them to activate it. He said HSBC had needed to verify Mr C identity and address to 
comply with regulations and hadnt acted unfairly unreasonably in trying to do this.
Mr C didnt agree. He made further points about what had happened. He confirmed the 
accounts had now been closed. Our investigator didnt change his view. Mr C reiterated the 
additional points he had raised with HSBC. As Mr C doesnt agree the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I do not uphold the complaint.
I know my decision will disappoint Mr C as he feels strongly that the request to re-verify his 
identity was unwarranted and the procedures involved were pedantic. However, UK banks 
have little discretion in this area and nothing Mr C had or hadnt done personally prompted 
the request. This was an exercise HSBC needed to undertake for all customers to ensure 
compliance with the relevant regulations. Ive taken account of everything Mr C has said. I 
need to consider whether HSBC has acted fairly and reasonably in line with the terms and 
conditions (T&Cs) of the account, the law and industry good practice in its dealings with him 
and I think it has. 
 
Identity Verification
Mr C wasnt UK resident and this limited HSBCs options in completing re-verification. For 
whatever reason Mr C didnt comply with HSBCs requests over an extended period. HSBC 
is entitled to decide on the procedures it uses, and I dont think those were unreasonable in 
the circumstances here. In giving the option of uploading uncertified documents to the ID 
portal or sending certified documents by post, Mr C wouldve been able to comply with its 
requests. Any process like this will, of course, lead to a degree of inconvenience for some 
customers. But thats not to say HSBC wasnt entitled to ask Mr C for the information it did 
here.
To use the portal Mr C would need a UK or EU passport or a Visa confirming the right to live 
in the UK, and I realise that perhaps he wasnt able to provide these. If so, its unfortunate 
that Mr C couldnt comply with HSBCs request  but thats not something itd be fair for me 
to impartially hold HSBC liable for. And while I understand that Mr C considered certification 
costs excessive  it still remains that HSBC needed information in certain forms to complete 
the checks.
When Mr C sent documents in January 2017, HSBC emailed further details of the ID portal. 
It marked its system to discuss the verification requirements when he called about the card. 
Mr C didnt reply to this email and it is clear from his complaint he was unaware of it. But 
HSBC has shown that it was sent. If he had followed up on his query about the credit card 
the verification problems might have been solved sooner. Mr C was travelling in July 2019 and didnt have the necessary documents to hand. But 
HSBC emailed him a detailed note of their requirements on 12 July 2019, so it contacted him 
about this, and the note set out who could certify documents and the necessary format for 
this. The utility bill and the notary certification of a non UK passport enclosed with his 
complaint in July 2019 didnt meet these requirements. 
Unfortunately, the un-certified copies of documents Mr C provided in 2017 and 2019 werent 
adequate verification for HSBC. I dont think its necessarily fair for UK staff to be expected 
to decide whether an original copy of an overseas utility bill or bank statement from an 
organisation potentially unknown to them are legitimate. All banks have strict procedures in 
place in this area and as HSBC said in its response to Mr C, they cant be varied.
If Mr C couldnt use the portal, proper certification was his only option. HSBC needed to 
verify his identity and I dont think it has acted unfairly or unreasonably in respect of this.
The Credit Card Account
HSBCs doesnt have detailed notes about the closure of this account, but I dont think it 
acted unreasonably in doing so.  It hadnt been used for more than ten years and Mr C had 
no valid card for it. He hadnt replied about it when HSBC asked him to and doesnt appear 
to query the closure until nearly two years later and then only in connection with the other 
accounts. Finding out the account was closed must have been surprising for Mr C, but 
equally it hadnt caused him any apparent inconvenience for two years. So, I dont think Mr C 
has been treated unfairly or unreasonably here either.
Access to Online Systems
HSBCs records dont show Mr C requesting the physical security key and I can understand 
his frustration at not receiving one if he had. But when he complained, he was issued with 
one, but two months later he hadnt activated it, which suggests not receiving it sooner 
hadnt caused him much inconvenience. HSBC issued the physical key promptly once Mr C 
had re-requested it, so I think it acted reasonably here.     
In summary the account wasnt aimed at non UK residents and I think HSBC acted 
reasonably in trying to update the details it required and restricting the accounts when it 
couldnt. Mr C advises he has closed the accounts, moving his funds to another bank. 
Ultimately this was his choice, but I dont think HSBC has treated him unfairly or 
unreasonably in seeking to comply with regulations it needed to, so I wont be asking it to do 
any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman