DRN-2834934
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA) handled a claim made 
under their buildings insurance policy. Any references to RSA include its agents. 
What happened
In October 2020, Mr C and Mrs C noticed a leak in the extension of their property. Unsure of 
the cause of this, they contacted their insurer who arranged for the property to be inspected. 
Mr C says he was unhappy the surveyor didnt adhere to their own Covid-19 guidance, and 
he doesnt think theyve carried out a sufficient inspection of the damaged area.
RSA declined the claim. Their surveyor said there was no evidence of storm damage or a 
single insured event. They also said that the accidental damage section of the policy 
excludes damage caused by rainwater, as a result the claim was declined.
Mr C complained to RSA about how the decision to decline the claim came about, along with 
the handling of his correspondence. He said contact details werent provided when he asked 
for them and that compensation was paid when he had asked for it not to be. Mr C also 
complained about RSAs handling of the renewal documents, said hed been wrongly told 
how the claim might impact his future premiums. RSA didnt uphold any of his complaints. 
Unhappy with RSAs handling of the matter, Mr C referred his complaint to us. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who said while RSA could have handled the renewal 
paperwork in a less confusing way, he didnt think the handling of the claim or 
correspondence fell below the standard hed expect. As Mr C and Mrs C didnt agree with 
this, their complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision focuses on the issues I consider are key to reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome, and Ive done so using the headings below. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either side, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role within it. 
Branding of the policy 
This policy is underwritten by RSA but branded as also being provided by a high street 
retailer. Mr C says he was aware of this, but is unhappy that during the claim, his 
correspondence was with RSA, not the retailer, which would have been his preference. 
I appreciate the link with the high street retailer may have influenced Mr Cs decision to take 
out the policy in the first instance. But this high street retailer is not an insurance provider. 
Ive considered the policy documents, noting while they are prominently branded by the high 
street retailer, there is also the following definition:
We/our/us
-Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc.
Im satisfied this definition makes it clear that while the policy may be branded by the high 
street retailer, RSA was the insurer. It follows, in my opinion, it is not unusual for the 
handling of any insurance claim to be carried out by an underwriter of the policy. So, while I 
can see that Mr C would have preferred correspondence from the high street retailer, I cant 
say RSA acted unreasonably here. It was appropriate for correspondence about the claim to 
be directed to and responded to by RSA, rather than the high street retailer.  
The handling of the claim assessment and declinature
Mr C has made two key points here. The first is that he says the surveyor didnt adhere to 
the Covid-19 procedures set out ahead of the visit. The second is that he doesnt consider 
the surveyor carried out an adequate enough assessment of the roof before recommending 
the claim be declined. 
Mr C and Mrs C say the surveyor didnt adhere to the Covid-19 precautions they were asked 
to adhere to ahead of the visit. In response to this, RSA say the surveyor says he did. 
The challenge here, of course, is that I wasnt present at the time the visit took place. In the 
face of conflicting evidence here I cant make a finding over which account is a more 
accurate assessment of the visit. Im satisfied RSA took on board feedback from Mr C and 
Mrs C. Its clear from the emails Ive seen, and they very much expected surveyors adhere 
to the relevant Covid-19 guidelines place at the time.
I can also see Mr C and Mrs C are unhappy with the claim being declined. However, their 
key focus appears to be on how the reason for declining the claim came about. They said 
the surveyor didnt fully inspect the damage and say it would have been physically 
impossible for him to have sight of area of damage from viewpoint he selected.
With this in mind, Ive considered the evidence provided by RSA. This includes reports, 
photographs, and audio recordings. He specifically mentioned access to the roof was limited. 
He said he didnt think there was a ladder that would be long enough to allow reasonable 
access to the roof. The information provided by the surveyor clearly set out the reasoning for 
declining the claim. And I am satisfied there was sufficient information for surveyor to reach 
an outcome on the claim. While Mr C and Mrs C may not agree with the surveyors 
assessment of access to the roof, Im satisfied the explanation from the surveyor is 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ill turn now to the comments Mr C and Mrs C have made about why a surveyor was sent out 
to their home when there had not been sufficient recent rainfall that might mean storm 
conditions applied. However, it seems reasonable to me that RSA arranged the inspection to 
determine if there was any other insurable event that the damage could be considered 
under. Im satisfied RSA acted reasonably. 
RSAs communication with Mr C
I understand Mr C is generally unhappy with many issues around this claim. Hes 
complained compensation was paid when he asked for it not to be and is unhappy with 
information hes been given.
Ill turn first to the more recent correspondence Mr C received from RSA about the policy 
renewal and the premiums that would be applied. Its not ideal Mr C was given different figures and its right he should expect more care when information is sent to him. Mr C 
raised concerns about how his information is being handled and hes been given the 
information by our investigator about how best to proceed with any concerns he may still 
have. 
Ill now consider the comments Mr C has shared about the impact the claim might have on 
him.  Mr C says he originally thought this conversation this took place during the initial call 
when he notified of the claim. RSA says having listened to the call this wasnt part of it.  
However, Mr C says he asked the surveyor during their visit and he was assured it wouldnt 
impact him as the claim was declined. 
I wasnt part of this conversation. But Ive considered what impact being given the wrong 
information might have had on Mr C and Mrs C. Theyve said they wouldnt have had 
proceeded with the claim if they thought it would have an impact on future premiums. Had 
Mr C and Mrs C been told this during the very first conversation with RSA its impossible to 
know at that point what they might have done  because at this time nobody knew the claim 
wouldnt be covered. At that point it was possible the claim might have been covered, and 
the cost of the claim exceeded any future increase in premiums. However, Im satisfied RSA 
have correctly recorded this claim on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE). Its not 
possible to know, for certain, what impact this had on future premiums. 
Mr C has said to put things right, he would like a refund of premiums paid over the last five 
years, along with a letter of apology. He doesnt think it was acceptable that RSA sent the 
compensation when he asked it not to.
However, overall, Im satisfied with RSAs handling of the claim. I cant see any reason to 
recommend a refund of premiums paid. Im mindful that during the time the policy has been 
in place, RSA were on risk for any claims that might have arisen. Overall, I consider the 
£125 paid is fair and reasonable in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by 
RSAs confusing handling of the renewal documents. But I wont be requiring it to take any 
further action regarding the claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman