DRN-1606363
 
The complaint
Mr F has complained about Swinton Group Ltd. Hes not happy about the cancellation fee he 
was charged when he cancelled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F took out car insurance through his broker, Swinton, in May 2019. When he bought a 
new car he asked Swinton how much his new premium would be and as it was a few 
hundred pounds more he shopped around and got it cheaper. He cancelled his policy and 
took out cover elsewhere, but Swinton charged him a £50 cancellation fee which he wasnt 
happy about. So, he complained to Swinton and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr F but didnt uphold his complaint. He was of the 
view that Swinton hadnt done anything wrong. He explained to Mr F that Swinton was the 
broker and that his insurer was responsible for the increase in premium. And as he cancelled 
his policy it was entitled to charge a cancellation fee for the time and costs incurred as 
outlined in the policy documentation. 
As Mr F didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think that the 
complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I know that this will be disappointing to Mr F and I can understand why he is frustrated about 
this, as he simply managed to get insurance elsewhere at a more competitive price. But I 
have to look at what is fair and reasonable to both sides and Swinton explained when Mr F 
took the policy out that there would be a £50 cancellation fee if he cancelled his policy. And I 
dont think that is unfair.
I know Mr F feels that he had no choice but as our investigator pointed out Swinton isnt 
responsible for the premium level. It simply passed on the cost quoted by the insurance 
company and if Mr F is unhappy about the cost of the policy offered, he would have to 
complain to them.
I understand another insurer waived the cancellation fee when Mr F changed a car 
previously but that isnt something they were obligated to do. And Swinton couldve chosen 
to waive the fee here, but that would be as a gesture of goodwill as opposed to something it 
should or ought to do. At the end of the day Swinton didnt charge a higher premium, the 
insurer did, and Swinton would incur costs in cancelling the policy and £50 seems 
reasonable in these circumstances.
Plus, Swinton made its cancellation charges clear when Mr F took out the policy, so he 
shouldve been aware of this. And his previous insurer waived a cancellation fee for him previously so Im satisfied that Mr F was fully aware that there might be cancellation 
charges, both at the time of taking out the policy and at the time he changed vehicle. He was 
also aware of the likely increase in premium when he changed his car as hed done this 
previously.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr F was hoping for, and this may come as a 
disappointment to him. But as the cancellation fee was applied correctly, in line with the 
policy terms and conditions, I have no grounds to tell Swinton to waive or reimburse it.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman