DRN-3340122
The complaint
Mr L is complaining about damage he says occurred to his vehicle whilst in the care of esure 
Insurance Limited (esure). esure had repaired his vehicle following a claim, but Mr L says 
when he picked his vehicle up it was undriveable.
What happened
Mr L was involved in a collision with a third party and he submitted a claim for damage to the 
left-hand front of his vehicle. The repairs were carried out, but when he attempted to drive 
his vehicle away from the garage, there was such a wobble in the front wheels it was 
undriveable. It transpired that both front coil springs were broken.
Mr L says hes recently had work carried out to the wheels and suspension of his vehicle. 
So, he says the damage to the coil springs could only have occurred in the accident or whilst 
in the care of esure. esure says the damage isnt accident related and is a result of wear and 
tear, mileage and age. So, its declined to include the repair in the claim cost and says it has 
no responsibility to replace the front coil springs.
So, Mr L complained to our service. An investigator reviewed the complaint and initially 
agreed with esure. However, Mr L submitted more evidence and the investigator 
subsequently asked esure to pay 50% of the cost of replacing the coil springs.
But esure doesnt agree, and its asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 February 2022. That provisional 
decision is below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not planning on 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The facts are as follows. Mr Ls vehicle was impacted to the left-hand front of his vehicle by a 
third party. From looking at the Audatex report I can see the repairs are cosmetic in nature - 
bumper, grille, wing, headlight etc. There is no indication that there was wheel or suspension 
damage recorded. This vehicle had 145k miles on the clock and was 10 years old at the time 
of the incident.
Post repairs, Mr L discovered the car was undriveable. It was discovered that the two front 
coil springs were broken. Mr Ls mechanic says he supplied and fitted at least one of these 
springs post repair and that the break to this particular spring was clean, indicating it was a 
recent break. An email from esure suggests there was an old break on one spring, and a 
newer break on the other.
Looking at the MOT history provided I can see that at 123K miles in November 2018, both 
front tyres were showing signs of wear and steering wear was also detected. The MOT in 
November 2019 indicates further front tyre wear issues and both driveshafts needing repair. 
I do note in both 2018 and 2019 repairs were carried out and the vehicle subsequently 
passed its MOT. The incident in question happened in September 2020.
Mr L says that he had some repairs carried out to the wheel and suspension area before he 
was involved in the incident. Tyres were replaced, and CV rubber boots were renewed. 
There is evidence that the wheels had been recently removed which all adds up given the 
previous advisories on the MOT. 
So, the question is whether esure is responsible for replacing the broken coil springs. Were 
they damaged in the accident and need replacing as part of the claim or did the repairer 
cause them to break whilst in its care?
I think based on the description of the impact and the damage sustained in that impact, its 
unlikely the coil springs were damaged in that impact. The impact only caused cosmetic 
damage and as such its correct that the cost of replacing the coil springs wasnt included in 
the claim.
However, Mr L says it wouldnt have been possible to drive the car pre-accident with the coil 
springs broken. So, he believes they were broken whilst in esures care. He says the opinion 
this damage was already there based on the fact that previous suspension issues were 
present on the MOT isnt plausible, as these issues were rectified, and MOTs passed.
I can see from looking at the MOT history that these suspension issues were present, but 
they were repaired in order for the car to pass the relevant MOT. However, its clear there 
were consistent tyre wear issues on an annual basis, which more likely than not means there 
were underlying and ongoing suspension/steering issues over a number of years, which 
wouldnt be unusual in a car of this age and mileage.
esure says that the vehicle was only ever driven sparingly whilst in its care. Mostly to move it 
small distances around the workshop. As the damage was cosmetic, there was no road test 
after repairs were carried out. The repairer says it carried out a geometry test, but it used a 
drive on ramp to carry this out.
The repairer has put forward a theory that the coil springs were broken before the car was 
involved in this incident. They say that the weight of the vehicle, has kept the broken spring 
in a working position and its likely that during repair this weight was lifted, meaning the 
broken springs and subsequent issues have now become apparent. Mr L disputes this 
theory and says the car was never lifted by a two-post ramp and this means this theory isnt 
viable.
Usually when a coil spring snaps it becomes immediately apparent, especially if the break is 
in the middle of the coil spring. In this scenario, the break will usually cause immediate 
issues such as lowering body height, steering problems or a knocking noise. The role of the 
coil spring is to absorb the impact of day to day driving. The housing within which a coil 
spring sits bears a large load and is under immense pressure due to the strength of the coil 
spring. 
However, Ive seen previously where a coil spring snapped at either end remains in its 
casing and so the break doesnt become immediately apparent. This type of break only 
becomes an issue when the weight is taken off the car, by being jacked up or by driving over 
very rough terrain. Thats because the cars body weight shifts and displaces the spring, 
causing it to move out of a set position as set out by the repairers theory. 
Springs usually break suddenly after an impact, or if driven over a long period of time under 
an uneven load or pressure. There is no mention or suspicion of an impact whilst the car was with the repairer. So, the only other viable option is that the springs eventually gave way 
after being placed under an uneven load. We know from the MOT history that theres a 
history of uneven tyre wear and that there were recent suspension and steering repairs 
carried out. So, this means there was likely an imbalance on the load the spring was being 
asked to support over a period of time. So, its likely this huge uneven pressure caused the 
springs to break.  I think that on the balance of probabilities the coil springs were under 
undue pressure before the accident happened, and that one of the springs had already given 
way. This caused undue pressure on the other side, causing it to also subsequently snap. 
This would be supported by Mr Ls mechanic noting one break appearing older than the 
other.
So, I think its likely that having the car repaired after the accident exacerbated the problem, 
as the car was being jacked up or had unusual weight bearing movement in order to carry 
out the repairs. Theres nothing to suggest that the coil springs snapped as a consequence 
of the accident, and its highly unlikely that the garage is responsible for the damage unless 
there was an impact whilst in its care, and theres no evidence of this. The garage wouldnt 
be responsible for damage that is likely to already have happened or happened through no 
fault of their own. 
As such theres no responsibility on esure to replace the coil springs. Because of this Im not 
planning on upholding this complaint and I wont be asking esure to do anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent my provisional decision on 11 February 2022 as set out above. esure havent replied 
but Mr L has. So, I will deal with Mr Ls response here.
Mr L feels Im looking at this from the wrong angle. He says he doesnt believe the coil 
springs were damaged during the accident. He specifically feels that the springs broke when 
his car was loaded onto a transporter to be recovered to the garage.
Firstly, Id like to clarify that I havent looked at this from the wrong angle. In my provisional 
decision I posed the question about whether esure was responsible for replacing the broken 
coil springs. I asked whether they were damaged in the accident or whether the repairer 
caused the damage whilst the car was in its care? So, Ive looked at whether it couldve 
happened at either point.
But the question isnt when did the coil springs break. The question is, did esure do 
something wrong that caused the coil springs to break. Mr L says they broke when the car 
was being recovered. And its wholly possible that the most recent break on one of the coil 
springs did occur when the car was being recovered or being loaded onto the transporter. 
But that doesnt mean that esure did anything wrong. 
As I set out above, theres evidence to strongly suggest that one of the coil springs was 
already broken. The other spring shows evidence of a very recent break, so its more likely 
than not this spring broke whilst in the care of esure. But theres nothing to suggest that 
esure did something wrong that would cause the second coil spring to break. And we 
wouldnt ask esure to pay for it unless there was evidence it had made an error. 
Its an industry standard in the motoring world, that you replace both springs even if only one 
is broken. If you drive around on an old spring alongside a newer spring you will have a 
different ride height, which causes load bearing problems. And if you drive around on one broken coil spring you are putting an uneven load weight on the one remaining coil spring, 
meaning its more likely to break under the added pressure. 
So, in the absence of any evidence to suggest that esure did something wrong, I have to 
look at the evidence that I do have in order to draw my conclusion. And the evidence shows 
me there was tyre wear and suspension issues with this vehicle over the years. This would 
not be unusual given the age and mileage of the vehicle. Further evidence suggests that one 
of the coil springs was already broken. And as set out above this will have caused an 
uneven load across the front of the car. So, I agree with Mr L and I think its likely the most 
recent coil spring break happened when the car was being recovered or when it was being 
jacked up, and in both instances the car was in the care of esure. But this doesnt mean 
esure did anything wrong. 
If one spring was already broken before the car was recovered, the car wouldve been under 
an abnormal load distribution. So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely 
than not this then caused the second coil spring to consequently break. Theres no evidence 
to suggest that esure actually caused the coil spring to break through any errors it made, 
even if it did happen whilst the car was in its care. Because of this I wont be asking esure to 
pay to replace the coil springs.
As such I see no reason to depart from my findings as set out in my provisional decision 
dated 11 February 2022. I know Mr L will be disappointed with this outcome but based on 
the evidence presented Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman