DRN-4373478
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr Z complain about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV)
has handled a claim under their home insurance policy.
As Mr Z has been leading on this complaint, Ive referred to him throughout. Any reference to
LV includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised
events.
Mr Z has a home insurance policy which is underwritten by LV. In February 2022, his
property was damaged following a storm, causing the collapse of the end gable wall.
Because of the extent of the damage, Mr Z and his family had to move into
alternative accommodation. Mr Z says LV told him hed be back in his property in six
to eight weeks time.
The scope of works was agreed between the parties, and by mid-June the end gable
wall had been rebuilt. But Mr Z questioned why the chimney hadnt been repaired as
it had been included in the original scope of works. LV said the chimney damage
wasnt caused by the storm.
Mr Z also raised the issue of damp inside his property. LV accepted there was damp,
and a recommendation was made for the interior to be dried out.
Because the repairs hadnt been completed, in July 2022, Mr Z and his family moved
into a rental property owned by Mrs H. LV agreed to cover the cost of the rent at
£1,250 per calendar month, for a period of six months.
In August 2022, Mr Z raised concerns about the roof repair and chimney. He said 
that because the roof repairs hadnt been completed properly, rainwater was entering 
his property, causing further damage.
LV agreed to a drone survey being carried out to review the condition of the roof and
chimney. The surveyor said the chimney damage wasnt related to the collapse of the
end gable wall, and issues with the roof werent attributable to poor repairs. So, LV
said the damage wasnt connected to the storm and wasnt covered under the claim.
Because Mr Z disagreed, LV arranged for another surveyors opinion - who
concluded the damage was due to a lack of maintenance and wear and tear.
LV subsequently offered to cash settle the claim but reduced the settlement amount
to account for an overpayment it said it had made in respect of the rent. LV said it
had paid £1,250 per calendar month when it should have paid £550 per month  as
thats what the previous tenants rent was.
Unhappy with the handling of his claim, Mr Z complained to LV. In its final response,
LV said it was satisfied it had handled Mr Zs claim in a timely manner and didnt
consider its service to have fallen short.
Mr Z brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and partially
upheld it. In summary he said LV should: pay £200 compensation; consider the
damaged contents items as part of the claim; calculate the overpaid rent using a
monthly figure of £900, not £550; consider any additional utility costs Mr Z incurred at
the risk address (subject to proof).
The Investigator was satisfied LVs decision to not cover the chimney and further
repairs to the roof was fair.
LV accepted the Investigators findings, but Mr Z disagreed, and so the complaint has
been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
Having considered things, I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Many parts of this complaint concern ongoing issues that will require further investigation
from LV and input from Mr Z. As a result, I wont be reaching a decision on the outcome of
all these matters as it wouldnt be practical at this time. And this Service will not become
involved in ongoing claims handling. I will be commenting definitively on the position of
alternative accommodation, increased utility bills, and delays.
Alternative Accommodation
Mr Z is unhappy LV deducted from the cash settlement an overpayment it says it
made in respect of the rent paid for alternative accommodation. LV paid £1,250 per
month for a six-month period, but it said it should have only paid £550 per month, as
thats what the rent was at the time.
Our Investigator explained why he didnt consider that to be fair and said hed seen
evidence which showed the rent was going to be £900 per month and so, said this
amount should be used when calculating any over payment  which LV agreed to.
Mr Z doesnt consider it reasonable for LV to make any deduction as £1,250 per
calendar month was agreed. And I agree with him.
The evidence suggests a telephone conversation took place between LV and Mr Z
where a rental amount of £1,250 was agreed for a six-month period. From what Ive
seen, LV was fully aware of the rental amount before confirming to Mr Z that it would
cover this. So, whilst I acknowledge LV may in hindsight wish to alter the agreement
it made with Mr Z, Im simply not persuaded this would be fair in the circumstances 
as it understood the facts of the situation when agreeing to those terms. For this
reason, I will be directing LV to not make any deductions from its overall cash
settlement that are related to any payments of alternative accommodation.Utility bills
Mr Z complains hes incurred higher utility bills at the insured address because of the
repair works. LV has said itll consider these costs as part of the claim. I consider it
reasonable for LV to cover these costs subject to Mr Z demonstrating hes incurred
higher bills than he ordinarily would have whilst the repairs were being carried out.
Delays and compensation
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to handle
claims promptly and fairly. Whats prompt will depend on the circumstances of the
claim  where theres extensive damage repairs are understandably going to take
longer. So, this Service wouldnt award compensation for inconvenience or distress
which is reasonably to be expected when dealing with a claim like Mr Zs.
It seems Mr Z was initially told the repairs would take a couple of months, but this
wasnt achieved. I havent identified any significant avoidable delays which account
for why the claim took longer  it seems in part that it was simply the repairs took
longer than estimated.
But also attributing to this was the parties disagreeing on the next steps with regards
 to the roof and chimney. This resulted in third parties being instructed to provide
expert reports on the matters  which unavoidably extended the life of the claim.
It does seem however, there was an avoidable delay in respect of drying the 
property- though this was for a relatively short period.
Whilst it seems LV initially underestimated the duration of the repairs, upon realising
things would take longer, it agreed to Mr Z and his family moving into Mrs Hs rental
property on a longer-term basis to minimise disruption to their daily life and to
alleviate some stress.
Whilst Im aware the claim has continued for some months after LVs final response, I
am only considering the impact of events up until this time. With this and the above in
mind, Im satisfied £200 compensation is fair in the circumstances.
The issues below are those which require further investigation from LV.
Chimney and roof repairs
Im aware Mr Z is unhappy with LVs decision to not carry out repairs to his chimney
and roof. Whilst this complaint has been with this Service, Mr Z has provided an
engineers report to support his position that the damage ought to be covered
because its either attributable to the storm or was caused by poor repairs.
I understand LV hasnt had sight of this report and so, will need to consider it before
this Service comments on it. If following LVs review of this new information Mr Z
remains unhappy, he can raise a complaint about this.
Internal repairs
Mr Z complains internal damp hasnt been adequately dealt with and that it was
caused by LVs contractors poor workmanship. Whilst I dont have sufficient
evidence to conclude the cause of the damp, LV has agreed to reattend the property
to inspect the damp and see if its connected to the storm damage. And I considerthis to be reasonable in the circumstances.
If following its investigation, LV considers the damp to be linked to the storm  either
directly or indirectly (because of poor repair works) - I would expect it to include the
costs of putting right the damage in the cash settlement. As this part of the claim is
ongoing, I wont make any further direction on this matter. However, should there be
a further dispute about this matter this may be something Mr Z refers to this Service
for consideration.
Dry-stone wall
Mr Z has raised concerns about repairs carried out to his propertys dry-stone wall.
Whilst it seems to be accepted by both parties that theres been a repair  Mr Z
doesnt consider it to be a lasting and effective repair.
Following the Investigators view, Mr Z provided further information which he
considers supports his position that the wall is unsafe. LV hasnt had sight of this
report and so, it needs the opportunity to comment on these findings before this
Service can investigate this matter further.
Flue liner
Mr Z says both flue liners ought to have been replaced in line with the scope of works
but only one was. Initially, LV said its contractor had replaced both flues but later
clarified only one had, but that the other was tested to make sure it was safe.
LV has said it will reattend and carry out a further safety check of the flue  which I
consider to be a reasonable next step. If following this investigation, Mr Z remains
unhappy hed need to complain to LV in the first instance.
Damage to contents
Mr Z complains his sofa, carpets and gas fire were damaged during the repairs. LV
has said itll consider these items once Mr Z provides evidence of the damage 
which I consider to be reasonable.
In demonstrating the damage, Mr Z will need to provide photographic evidence which
shows the condition of these items before and after the claim, so that LV can
reasonably assess the cause of the damage. I will leave these matters for LV to
review in the first instance.
Central heating
Mr Z has said there have been issues with the central heating since returning to the
property  namely, a ceased valve and the system requiring flushing due to it being
switched off for several months. He considers these issues to be attributable to LVs
handling of the claim.
These issues post-date the final response and so, I wont be commenting on this. If
Mr Z remains unhappy about this issue, this will need to be raised to and addressed
by LV as a separate complaint.
My provisional decisionMy provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Liverpool Victoria
Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr Z and Mrs H £200 compensation.
Not make any deductions from its overall cash settlement related to payments of
alternative accommodation - as it previously intended to.
Cover increased utility bill costs which were incurred at the risk address, and which
are attributable to the repair works - subject to Mr Z providing proof of this.
Both parties replied to my provisional findings. Mr Z accepted the findings but said he didnt 
want LV to use the contractor it had appointed to complete the original repair works due to 
issues with its quality of work and concerns it had claimed for work which hadnt been 
carried out. 
LV agreed with my findings apart from the issue regarding it recouping what it considers to 
be an overpayment of rent in respect of alternative accommodation. LV accepts the rental 
cost of the alternative accommodation wasnt consider unreasonable. But it doesnt consider 
Mr Z to have acted in good faith because he didnt initially disclose the property was already 
owned by Mrs H. LV said had it known this, it would have made further enquiries into the 
previous rental costs.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not departing from the findings of my provisional decision and Ill explain 
why. 
Alternative contractor
Mr Z has asked me to direct LV to appoint an alternative contractor to complete any further 
remedial works. Im not persuaded however, that LV must do so in the circumstances of this 
complaint because if there are concerns with the quality of the contractors work, a 
reasonable course of action is for the contractor to be given the opportunity to put things 
right in the first instance.  
Alternative accommodation
Ive looked at the correspondence between Mr Z and LV around the time it agreed to paying 
rent in respect of the property owned by Mrs H.
Of note, is an email dated 30 June 2022, where LV says: Please proceed with both the 
storage and secure the rental. Please confirm as soon as possible a move in date so that 
notice can be provided to the current. This email is in response to Mr Z informing LV that 
hes looking at property with a monthly rent of £1,250 but which is less that other properties 
in the area. 
LV subsequently asked Mr Z to provide a copy of the tenancy agreement which he did prior 
to the date the tenancy was due to start. The tenancy agreement shows it was between Mr Z 
and Mrs H. And so, Im not persuaded Mr Z withheld relevant information but rather provided 
the information that was asked of him. If LV considers its due diligence to have been lacking 
after the event, Im not satisfied thats Mr Zs fault. And in any event, given it was going to agree to covering rent for properties which attracted a higher rent, Im not persuaded its 
made a material difference. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited to:
Pay Mr Z and Mrs H £200 compensation. LV must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Mr Z and Mrs H accepts my final decision. If it 
pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline 
date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
 
Not make any deductions from its overall cash settlement related to payments of
alternative accommodation - as it previously intended to.
Cover increased utility bill costs which were incurred at the risk address, and which
are attributable to the repair works - subject to Mr Z providing proof of this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman