DRN-2977618
The complaint
Mr C has complained that BPO Collections Limited continued to contact him after telling him 
theyd put things on hold.
What happened
BPO were looking after two accounts in Mr Cs name, on behalf of the debt owners.
Mr C had changed his name by deed poll. One of the accounts was still registered in his 
previous name, while the other was in his up-to-date name.
In April 2021, Mr C spoke to BPO and let them know about the name change. BPO asked if 
he could send them a copy of the deed poll, but confirmed theyd updated his name on their 
system. BPO didnt then receive a copy of the deed poll.
In May 2021, Mr C let BPO know that his partner was in hospital after a severe incident. He 
had also told them about his own health and wellbeing issues. BPO agreed to place things 
on hold.
However, BPO continued to contact Mr C, including frequent call attempts, and texts urging 
him to get in touch immediately.
Mr C complained. He explained that given his situation was already so bad, this had added 
substantial stress for him. BPO explained that because the two accounts were in different 
names, their advisor had put one account on hold but not the other. So theyd been 
contacting him about the account in his old name. They apologised.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. In summary, 
they said even if Mr C had forgotten to send in the deed poll, hed let BPO know about his 
updated name and BPO had told him theyd updated it on their end. They found that BPO 
were at fault for not updating Mr Cs other account with the important information hed given 
them. So theyd contacted him when they shouldnt have, and caused some real distress. 
They recommended that BPO pay Mr C £100 compensation.
BPO didnt agree. They said they didnt share information across multiple accounts. They 
said theyd needed the deed poll. They said when their advisor updated the system this was 
not a formal change. They felt that when Mr C updated his name, he should have told them 
he had multiple accounts.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPO are responsible for administering the accounts they look after. The onus is on them to 
make sure that the information they hold is up-to-date  across all the accounts they deal 
with. The onus is also on them to take account of any difficulties a customer is in or any 
vulnerabilities they have, and to deal with these positively and sympathetically  across all 
the accounts they deal with.
I can understand how BPO mixed things up here. But it is BPOs mistake. Mr C notified them 
about his change of name and BPO confirmed theyd updated things. They did not make it 
clear that the deed poll was essential  they even confirmed theyd updated their system. 
They also did not say this was not a formal change. And in any case, BPOs internal 
workings are not Mr Cs responsibility, nor something hed know. 
BPO had Mr Cs new name on one account, and had been informed of his new name for the 
other. The accounts were also linked by his other details, too. So BPO had more than 
enough to work out that these two accounts were owed by the same person.
Im not sure why BPO think Mr C had a responsibility to tell them he had a second account 
when he called them in May. Again, it was BPOs responsibility to administer the accounts 
and they should have been aware he had two. Further, it was completely reasonable for 
Mr C to think that if he told BPO about his circumstances, theyd update any and all accounts 
involved. Thats how things usually work with other businesses. It would be unreasonable to 
expect him to assume that BPO would fail to notice he had two accounts. 
If its BPOs process not to share information across accounts, then thats something theyll 
need to take responsibility for when it goes wrong. BPO should always treat customers fairly, 
and should try to avoid putting processes over people. Sometimes, a business needs to 
depart from its normal process in order to do the right thing.
Here, BPO should not have continued to pursue Mr C after he let them know his situation 
and they agreed to put things on hold. They were also reasonably aware of his wider 
circumstances. And they had more than enough information to link his two accounts.
Its clear that BPOs error caused Mr C some substantial stress, when he was already in a 
truly tough situation. Like our investigator, I think BPO should pay him £100 compensation 
for the trouble and upset they caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct BPO Collections Limited 
to pay him £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman