DRN-3208370
The complaint
Mrs and Mr J complain that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as 
Scottish Provident unfairly declined Mrs Js claims for total and permanent disability benefit 
and premium payment benefit. 
What happened
In November 2002 Mrs and Mr J took out a joint life and critical illness policy with Scottish 
Provident. Mrs J also took out a standalone critical illness policy. The joint policy provided a 
sum assured of around £25,000 in the event Mrs or Mr J died or were diagnosed with a 
listed critical illness during the policy term. The critical illness policy provided £75,000 in the 
event Mrs J was diagnosed with a listed critical illness during the term. The policies also 
included cover for total and permanent disability (TPD) benefit and premium payment 
benefit (PPB). For both benefits Mrs J was covered on a work tasks basis. Both policies 
had 20-year terms. 
Mrs J started suffering from pains in her hands in February 2020, which was later diagnosed 
as osteoarthritis. The symptoms worsened and she contacted Scottish Provident in 
October 2020 to claim on the policy. The policy expired on 21 November 2020.
Scottish Provident declined the claim, explaining that the medical evidence didnt support 
Mrs J had met the policy definition of TPD or PPB before the policy expired. It noted Mrs J 
had continued to work after the policy expired and the evidence didnt support that she was 
totally and permanently unable to perform two or more of the work tasks, as required for a 
successful claim.
Mrs and Mr J referred a complaint to our service. In short, they said:
Both claims should have been accepted as they believed Mrs J satisfied the relevant 
policy criteria. 
Osteoarthritis is a progressive condition with no known cure. Any available treatment 
would only be to manage pain rather than cure the underlying condition.
Mrs J was symptomatic before the policy expired, and the total permanent disability 
she now suffers from is due to a condition that was covered by the policy and present 
before cover ended. 
The first occupational health report concluded that Mrs J was unfit for work. 
Mrs J was being penalised for trying to return to work and that she only made this 
attempt to satisfy her mental anxiety that she would never be able to work again. 
Mrs Js medical treatments and appointments had been delayed due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think Scottish Provident had acted 
unfairly. In short, she agreed with Scottish Provident that the medical evidence didnt support 
that Mrs J met the policy criteria for either TPD or PPB before the policy ended. 
Mrs and Mr J disagreed and so the matter has been referred to me to decide. They referred 
to a third occupational health report, conducted more recently, which again concludes Mrs J 
is unfit to return to work. They maintained that Mrs J was totally and permanently unable to 
complete at least two of the six work tasks, as required by the policy.   
Our investigator explained that as the third occupational health report post-dated the end of 
the policy, she didnt think it would make a difference to the claim outcome. But she 
explained it would first have to be considered by Scottish Provident before we could consider 
it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. I want to assure Mrs and Mr J that I didnt take this decision lightly. I 
understand this has been an incredibly difficult time for them, and I dont want to add to their 
distress. But I cant say Scottish Provident has treated them unfairly. 
Mrs and Mr J havent provided us with the third occupational health report theyve referred 
to. But as our investigator explained this would have to be considered by Scottish Provident 
before we could consider it. And in any event, Im satisfied I can fairly and reasonably reach 
a conclusion on this case without that additional information. 
I can see that Mrs J has been very seriously incapacitated by her diagnosis with 
osteoarthritis, and I dont underestimate the impact this has had on her life and her ability to 
work and perform tasks as she once had. But the key issue for me to consider is whether 
she met the policy definition of TPD or PPB before the policy expired on 21 November 2020. 
While I can understand why it seems significant to Mrs and Mr J, its not enough that Mrs Js 
osteoarthritis started before the policy ended. Scottish Provident is only required to accept 
claims where the policy definition is met during the period of cover. As such, there would 
need to be enough compelling medical evidence to show that Mrs J was totally and 
permanently disabled as a result of that condition before 21 November 2020. 
To successfully claim either TPD or PPB Mrs J had to be totally unable to do any two of the 
six listed work tasks due to illness or injury:
Walking - The ability to walk 200 metres on a level surface with a stick or other aid 
without stopping or severe discomfort.
Lifting - The ability to pick up 1kg from table height and carry it for 5 metres.
Using a pen/pencil/keyboard - The ability to use a pen, pencil or keyboard with either 
hand using any aids.
Hearing - The ability to hear well enough to understand someone speaking a 
common language in a normal voice in a quiet room with a hearing aid.
Speech - The ability to be understood in a common language in a quiet room.
Vision - The ability to see well enough to read 16 point print using spectacles or other 
aids.
For the TPD to become payable it would also need to be shown that her incapacity was 
permanent, thats to say it must be irreversible with no reasonable prospect of there ever 
being any improvement. The PPB would only become payable after 26 weeks of disability.  
As part of her claim, Mrs J said shed been unable to complete the walking, lifting and using 
a pen/pencil/keyboard tasks since February/ March 2020. When asked, Mrs Js GP and her consultant rheumatologist agreed that shed have difficulties with the lifting and using a 
pen/pencil/keyboard tasks, but neither stated that shed be totally unable to complete them. 
While I note Mrs J said shed been unable to complete the work tasks since February/ 
March 2020, I consider it significant that her first continuous absence from work started in 
December 2020, after the policy had ended. According to her sick records, prior to this shed 
only had one day off due to swollen fingers in February 2020. Given the nature of Mrs Js 
work as a healthcare assistance, which required her to complete fine dexterous tasks such 
as phlebotomy, suggests that while she was experiencing symptoms that likely impacted her 
ability to do her job, they did not totally prevent her from doing so until December 2020.
An occupational health report was carried out on 3 December 2020 and concluded that 
Mrs J was temporarily unfit for work. It was the opinion of the occupational physician who 
carried out the review (who Ill refer to as Dr M) that Mrs J should be able to return to work 
once her symptoms were supressed.
A second occupational health report carried out on 4 February 2021, concluded that Mrs J 
was Fit [for work] with recommended adjustments. Dr M noted that Mrs Js joint pains had 
lessened since taking a new medication and that shed experienced an improvement with 
her hand functions. It was noted she was able to hold a pen and write legibly with her right 
hand today. Dr M recommended that Mrs J could return to work with adjustments in place. It 
was noted Mrs J could be redeployed to tasks that are light (weighing no more than 2kg in 
nature) and does not require fine accuracy or details. Tasks like typing, telephone work, 
writing, speaking to patients, filing, would be ideal. Mrs J then made a temporary return to 
work in an administrative role between 2 March 2021 and 13 April 2021. The Employer 
Claim Form noted that Mrs J stopped work when she found she could not type. 
Ive given very careful consideration to Mrs and Mr Js comments that the second 
occupational health report was heavily influenced by Mrs J wanting to attempt a return to 
work for her own mental well-being. And I completely agree that it was admirable of Mrs J to 
attempt this return, when it was no doubt difficult for her to do so. But I cant reasonably set 
aside Dr Ms conclusions or suggestions. While I dont doubt Dr M would have wanted to 
take Mrs Js thoughts and wishes into account when reaching her conclusions, Dr M 
ultimately had a professional responsibility to only recommend a return to work if she felt that 
was safe and appropriate. 
Given that Dr M said Mrs J was able to hold a pen, write legibly and could complete 
administrative tasks like typing in February 2021, I agree with Scottish Provident that the 
evidence doesnt support that she was totally unable to complete the Using a 
pen/pencil/keyboard work task. Similarly, the fact that Dr M suggested Mrs J could carry out 
light tasks, with objects weighing no more than 2kg, suggests that she wasnt totally unable 
to complete the lifting work task.  
In summary, while I do not doubt the extent of Mrs Js current disability due to her 
osteoarthritis, the available evidence doesnt support that her condition caused her to be 
totally incapacitated before the policy expired. As such, I cant say Scottish Provident acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by declining either the TPD or PPB claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman