The complaint
Mr S complains that Wren Sterling Financial Planning Ltd (Wren) unfairly charged him
£3,300 for advice despite informing it he did not wish to go ahead and transfer these 
investments to it.
What happened
As I explained in my Provisional Decision, there is no substantial disagreement about what 
meetings and conversations took place. Rather, the dispute has been about what, if 
anything, Wren was entitled to charge Mr S for the services it provided despite Mr S not 
proceeding with any of its advice.
Wren maintained that its terms and conditions made clear there would be charges for not 
proceeding with its advice - charged on an hourly basis with a minimum of £1,000 - and that
Mr S had signed in agreement with these conditions. It also said it had undertaken a 
considerable amount of work, engaged with Mr S and one of his advisors, and it was entitled 
to charge a sum of £3,300 for this, based on its hourly rate.
Mr S maintains that he was not fully informed about Wren's charges, particularly if he chose 
not to go ahead with its advice. Given he didn't do so, it wasn't entitled to charge him 
anything.
In my view, Wren failed to spell things out sufficiently clearly and therefore shouldn't be 
allowed to charge Mr S £3,300. But I felt it did make clear that there was a minimum charge 
of £1,000 and undertook a considerable amount of work - with Mr S's explicit approval. I 
therefore felt it was entitled to charge Mr S £1,000.
Wren accepted my view.
Mr S didn't, and reiterated that the advisor had not warned him that there would be a 
minimum fee of £1,000 even if he did not go ahead with the advice; nor was he given a copy 
of the client agreement which he allegedly signed. All he signed was the letter of agreement 
to allow the advisor to prepare a report.
He also outlined in further detail the chain of events including the advisor's unavailability, the 
reasons why he chose to delay making a decision about the advice, further conversations 
about particular investments and their charges and the fact that he had never made an 
official complaint or made a final decision not to go ahead with the advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1990066reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have said previously, I do not dispute the detailed time line of events which Mr S 
outlines, the vast majority of which Wren accepts. It is clear that there were various factors in 
his decision to delay making a decision about this investment advice including personal 
issues, problems speaking to the advisor and other considerations. I also do not dispute that 
he didn't actually make an official complaint and was still considering his options when Wren 
sent him a bill for £3,300. I have therefore not given a complete summary of the events he 
outlined in his most recent response. particularly as I don't think they ultimately bear upon 
the sole issue of what, if anything, it is reasonable for Wren to charge him.
I still agree that it didn't make sufficiently clear the cost of the work it proposed to undertake - 
and did undertake - and therefore isn't entitled to bill him for this amount.
But I also still believe it made clear at the outset that Mr S would be charged a minimum of 
£1,000 in the Client Agreement (which I am satisfied he signed given the similarity between 
the signature on this document and that on his complaint form).
Overall, I think Wren did make clear it would levy a charge for preparing a detailed 
recommendations' report and that Mr S ought reasonably to have realised he would be 
charged for this work even if he didn't go ahead with any of the suggestions. I don't believe it 
would be fair or reasonable to conclude that Wren could not bill Mr S for any of the work he 
instructed it to do.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint to the extent described above.
My final decision
Iinstruct Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited to reduce Mr S's bill to £1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman