DRN-4437934
Complaint
Miss F has complained about a loan which she says Progressive Money Limited 
(Progressive) unfairly lent to her. She says the loan was never affordable and so should 
never have been granted to her in the first place.
Background
Progressive provided Miss F with a loan for £7,500.00 in July 2018. This loan had an APR of 
43.81% and a term of 72 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£18,715.20, which included interest fees and charges of £11,215.20 (made up of interest of 
£10,075.20, an acceptance fee of £750 and an administration fee of £390), was due to be 
repaid in 71 monthly instalments of around £259.54 followed by a final instalment of 
£259.46.
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss F and Progressive had told us. She thought 
that Progressive hadnt acted unfairly by providing this loan to Miss F and so didnt think that 
the complaint should be upheld. 
Miss F disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Fs complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Miss Fs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Progressive needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is that Progressive needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Miss F could afford to make her repayments before providing 
this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Progressive says Miss Fs loan application was manually assessed by an underwriter after 
she provided details of her monthly income and information on her expenditure. It says it 
cross-checked Miss Fs declarations against information on a credit search it carried out, 
bank statements that it obtained from Miss F and questions that it asked her during a 
telephone interview. 
In Progressives view although the credit search showed that Miss F had a historic default, 
all of the rest of the information it gathered showed that Miss F could comfortably afford to 
make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Miss F has said she was 
already in difficulty and couldnt afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss F and Progressive have said. 
Its clear that Progressive did obtain a significant amount of information before it decided to 
proceed with Miss Fs application. And this information does appear to suggest that, at the 
time at least, the monthly loan repayments were affordable for Miss F. I accept that Miss Fs 
actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the information she 
provided, or the information Progressive obtained. And I know that Miss F did have 
outstanding debts. 
However, having listened to the recording of the call Miss F had with Progressives 
underwriter its clear that it was Miss F intention to use the majority of the funds from this 
loan to settle existing debts. I dont know if Miss F did go to apply for further credit or loans 
after this one. But Progressive could only make a reasonable decision based on the 
information it had available at the time. And Im satisfied that a significant portion of the 
proceeds of this loan could and should have been used to reduce the balances on some of 
Miss Fs existing accounts in the way that Miss F had committed to. 
Its also worth noting that as this was a first loan Progressive was providing to Miss F, there 
wasnt a history of Miss F obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in 
the way she committed to. So Progressive was reasonably entitled to believe that Miss F 
would be left in a better position after being provided with this loan  particular given the 
significant amount of information gathered pointed to this being the case.
I accept it possible that Miss Fs full circumstances may not be reflected in the information 
Progressive gathered or in the information she has since provided, notwithstanding just how 
much information was obtained. For example, I note that Miss F has said that her income 
was less than what was recorded as she no longer had a second job at the time of her 
application. 
But Progressive looked at Miss Fs latest tax return and this did validate what was recorded. 
As this was Miss Fs latest tax return and she didnt take any steps to explain that the 
earnings recorded on it was not in line with what she was earning at the time of her 
application, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Progressive to progress with this as a 
reasonable estimation of Miss Fs income.  
Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that 
Progressive did anything wrong when providing this loan to Miss F - it carried out 
proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the 
repayments were affordable. In these circumstances, I dont think that Progressive could 
reasonably have realised that Miss F didnt have the funds to make the repayments to this 
loan.Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Progressive acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when lending to Miss F. It didnt simply accept what Miss F said about her 
circumstances when deciding whether to lend and instead manually underwrote the loan 
after obtaining a significant amount of information backing up the monthly payments being 
affordable for her. As this is the case, I cannot reasonably and do not uphold this complaint. 
I appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Miss F as its clear she feels strongly 
about this matter. And Im also sorry to hear that shes experiencing difficulty too. But I hope 
shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have 
been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman