DRN-4345793
The complaint
The estate of Mr H complains about a shortfall in a life insurance policy which they say is the 
fault of advice given by Hayburn Rock Financial Planning Ltd. 
What happened
After Mr H sadly passed away the estate made a claim under a decreasing term life 
assurance policy. The product provider agreed the claim however the amount payable left a 
shortfall on the outstanding mortgage.
The estate complained to Hayburn saying the shortfall was due to advice given in 2014.
Hayburn didnt uphold the complaint saying the application summary and documentation 
from the time of the sale explained how the policy worked. Also Mr H had signed the 
application confirming it was in line with his requirements at the time. Hayburn also said the 
complaint had been brought outside the time limit rules set out by the regulator.
Remaining unhappy the estate brought the complaint to our service. One of our Investigators 
thought the complaint had been brought in time under the rules, and one of our Ombudsman 
issued a decision agreeing with this.
Our Investigator looked into the sale of the policy and thought, on the limited available 
information from the time, that Hayburn werent responsible for what happened. They said 
the term of the mortgage was changed in 2016 which was different from the advice given in 
2014. Also, there was no ongoing arrangement with Hayburn for advice, and they were not 
made aware of the mortgage term mismatch due to the changes in 2016 which resulted in 
the shortfall. 
The estate disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear how strongly the representative of the estate feels about what happened, and the 
impact the problem has had. I want to assure the estate that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised 
some things which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
There isnt a full record of what happened in 2014, which due to the passage of time isnt 
unexpected. Where the information about what happened is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, as some of it is here, Ive come to a decision based on the balance of 
probabilities about what I think is most likely to have happened. 
The shortfall in the claim came about because of a term mismatch between the length of the 
policy and term of the mortgage. The estate says this was caused by advice given by 
Hayburn in 2014. 
In 2014 Mr H was planning to take the existing mortgage, which was at that time held in joint 
names, into his sole name. It seems the policy was designed to match the plans for Mr H 
taking sole ownership of the mortgage at that time with a 15 year term.
However it wasnt until 2016, some two years later, that the change to Mr Hs sole name on 
the mortgage took place. At that time the term of the mortgage was changed to 16 years.  
Heyburn had no involvement in that change, and say they werent made aware of any of the 
details.
The mortgage guarantee part of the policy only applies if the mortgage term and the term of 
the policy are the same. After 2016 this wasnt the case as the term was extended. It seems 
the product provider wasnt notified of this change in term, so amendments werent made to 
the policy as they shouldve been. Because the terms didnt match the mortgage guarantee 
didnt apply and there was a shortfall. 
Also the policy documentation says that the mortgage mustnt be taken out more then three 
months after the start of the policy. And it seems most likely that in 2014 Mr H intended to 
take sole ownership of the mortgage and extend the term to 15 years within that timeframe. 
Which wouldve made the advice, and the policy, suitable. But as Ive explained above the 
change didnt happen within that timeframe. The estate says the delay from 2014 to 2016 
was due to solicitors, which is out of the control of Heyburn.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Heyburn werent 
responsible for the shortfall in the claim on the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman