DRN-3284858
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) put missed payment markers on his 
credit file.
What happened
Mr C had a credit card from Santander. In March 2020, the balance was £1,446.09 and the 
limit was £8,460. Mr C was paying zero interest and making monthly payments of £100, 
although the minimum contractual payment was £14.46. On 28 February 2020, he made a 
payment of £100. But in March 2020, April 2020 and May 2020, no payments were made. 
The account fell into arrears and Santander advised the missed payments to the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs). On 4 June 2020, Mr C paid the account off in full.
Mr C complained. He said he had written a letter to Santander on 18 March 2020 to request 
a payment holiday under the pandemic support scheme. He hadnt been able to get through 
to them on the phone and so posted a letter to them. He said the payments from his bank 
had stopped but didnt know why  as he hadnt cancelled the direct debit or standing order 
from that account. Because he heard nothing from Santander he assumed the payment 
holiday had been agreed  and therefore payments werent needed.  He said that the late 
payment markers should be removed.
Santander said no error had been made by them. Mr C told Santander in June 2020 that he 
had switched bank accounts  and so if that was the case, then he could file a Notice of 
Correction with the CRAs. They gave him guidance on how to do that.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Santander had acted fairly. There 
wasnt any record of Mr C contacting Santander by phone There wasnt a record of his 
request for a payment holiday  his written request couldnt be traced. Mr C had received 
statements for the card which showed the minimum payments due.
Mr C asked that his complaint be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr C was making payments to his card account at the rate of £100 per month, 
and this continued until February 2020  when they stopped. Mr C says that the payments 
were being made from his bank account by standing order but for some reason, these 
stopped. He says he applied for a payment holiday under the Covid-19 support scheme  
which would have suspended his payments for three months. So  Ive looked at both 
aspects of his complaint.
Payments from Mr Cs bank account: Mr C has said that the payments were coming from his 
bank account but they stopped  he cant explain why. He showed us a screenshot from his 
bank which said that no standing orders had been cancelled. But  this wasnt dated, nor did 
it have any bank account details with for example, Mr Cs name on it. So  we cant rely on 
this as a firm piece of evidence.
Ive considered this further  and on Mr Cs credit card statements dated November 2019, 
December 2019, January 2020, and February 2020  in the lead up to what happened  Mr 
C was making the payments by the online faster payment method. That is, they were being 
made manually, online by Mr C and not by standing order or direct debit. And so  the issue 
of the cancellation, or error in the direct debits or standing orders falls away. And so  it 
looks like Mr C possibly forgot to make the online faster payment in the months in question  
or his bank failed to process the payments or declined them  we dont know. 
Mr C told Santander that he switched bank in February 2020  and that was the time when 
the payments stopped. So, I wonder if that was a reason that there was a problem with the 
faster payments  or with direct debits or standing orders. If that were the case, then there is 
a process whereby Mr C can lodge a Notice of Correction with the CRAs  and Santander 
detailed how he could do that in their final response. Or if Mr C feels that there was an error 
by his old or new bank, then he should approach them to see what happened.
FCA Covid-19 Support Scheme: In April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
announced guidance to lenders in response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 
pandemic. All lenders, including Santander, had to put in place payment holidays on many 
credit agreements, including credit cards  to help customers who were affected. Customers 
could ask for a total of two payment holidays, each of three months  whereby payments 
could be suspended. Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, 
although interest would still be debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms 
up to the end of October 2020.
So, Ive considered this. The FCA announced on 17 March 2020 that they were considering 
support  but didnt say what that was at that time. They made their detailed announcement 
on 2 April 2020; and the measures came into effect on 9 April 2020. Mr C showed us a copy 
of the letter he says he sent to Santander  dated 18 March 2020. And so  if Santander had 
received the letter, they might have agreed to backdate the payment holiday to March 2020 
when they later got the instructions from the FCA. But such an action wouldve been down to 
Santanders discretion, and I cant be certain that such a decision wouldve been taken.
Santander say they didnt receive the letter. But more importantly  Santanders process for 
agreeing to payment holidays was by completing an online form with an email address  and 
they showed us the messages that customers saw on their website and instructions as to 
what to do. The message said that if they didnt have an email address, then customers 
could call an 0800 number  but it also warned that wait time could be long in view of the 
situation with the virus at the time. In other words, customers were told to use the online 
form. Mr C said to us that he tried to call Santander at that time. But the message that 
Santander put up about their process was clear, and unfortunately Mr C didnt use it and 
instead sent a letter.
Mr C said to us that he couldnt see his account online as he had a legacy card which had 
been bought by Santander. That may have been the case  but I dont think this would have 
stopped him from applying for the payment holiday online.
Communications: Ive thought about whether Mr C could reasonably have been aware of 
what happened and could therefore have done something about it. I could see that Mr C was 
sent a statement dated 21 March 2020  which showed that a minimum payment of £14.46 
was needed by 15 April 2020. So  that was clear. 
And then on the statement dated 21 April 2020   this showed that no payment had been received. There was a message on it which said We have not received the payment due 
from your last statement. We appreciate this may be an oversight but you should pay the 
minimum payment amount to ensure continued use of your account. I think that was also 
clear.
The next statement was dated 21 May 2020 and this also showed no payment had been 
received in the next month. There was another message on it which said Your account is 
still in arrears and has therefore been suspended until the minimum payment amount stated 
has been paid If you need to speak with us, please call on 0800 389 6655. You have failed 
to make a minimum payment. Failing to make minimum payment can mean that you have 
broken the terms of this credit agreement and could result in us taking legal action against 
you. It could lead to you having to pay additional costs and make it difficult for you to obtain 
credit in future.
On the same day  21 May 2020, Santander sent a Notice of Sums in Arrears which showed 
two missed payments in April 2020 and May 2020. I noted that Mr C called Santander about 
what had happened on 4 June 2020  a little while later. I accept that possibly by the time 
the May 2020 statement and Notice of Arrears arrived at Mr Cs address, the payments had 
been missed and by then there was little he could do about it. But I think its reasonable to 
say that he couldve seen earlier, on his 21 April 2020 statement  that the payment had 
been missed and then done something about it at that time. 
I think its reasonable to say that customers have a responsibility to ensure that payments 
are made to their accounts  unless theres an error by the banks concerned. Santander are 
obliged to report accurate information to the CRAs - unless theyve done something wrong. 
And  having looked at what happened here, on balance I cant say that Santander made an 
error and so were justified in marking Mr Cs credit file with two missed payments.
I can see that Mr C feels strongly about his complaint and so will be disappointed by my 
decision, but Im not going to ask Santander to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman