DRN-2418451
The complaint 
Mr Ks complaint about Virgin Money plc (Virgin) relates to the annual fee Virgin applied to 
his credit card account after hed made it clear that he wanted a different account because 
he didnt want to pay the account fee.
What happened
Mr K had a reward plus card account (old account) which had an annual fee, and which 
was due to be charged to that account at the end of July 2019. 
In May 2019 Mr K rang Virgin because he wanted to change to a card that had no fee (new 
account). He said very clearly he didnt want to pay the forthcoming fee and that he wanted 
to change to a new account. The advisor he spoke to told him he that if he closed the old 
account before the end of July, meaning he had to clear the balance first, he wouldnt be 
charged the fee. He was also advised that he could apply for a new account before he did 
that just in case the application wasnt approved. Virgin accept that this advice was wrong 
because they had changed their terms and conditions on the 1 May, and so it was no longer 
applicable.
Mr K called again in July and was given the correct advice on this occasion that being that 
he would be required to close his old account first and then wait six months before 
reapplying. Mr K enquired what was to happen about the fee to be charged at the end of July 
and he was told to leave it with Virgin and someone would be in touch.
Virgin didnt get back in touch with Mr K until after the fee had been charged to his account, 
leading Mr K to bring this complaint. Virgin looked into the complaint but didnt accept it had 
done anything wrong.
Mr K was unhappy with Virgins final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Virgin hadnt done 
anything wrong. 
Mr K didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.
I issued my Provisional Decision on the 6 September 2020 and both Mr K and Virgin have 
responded to say they accept it. I shall therefore repeat my findings and make my 
provisional decision final. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. But 
Im going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it 
reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
The accepted facts are that Mr K was very clear in advising Virgin that what he was trying to 
achieve was to avoid paying the annual fee on his old account. It is also accepted that Virgin 
gave him the wrong advice in May and didnt correct it until a week or so before the fee was 
due to be charged. So, it is not until that point that Mr K had all the relevant information. That 
said it is clear he knew that he would have to close his account before the end of July to 
avoid paying the fee, because that was the very point to why he was calling. 
If that was all Virgin had said I would have no hesitation in saying that as the old account 
had not been closed by the end of July, the fee was rightly charged. But there is more to it 
than that, and that requires a closer look at the conversation on 23 July.
On the 23 July Mr K called Virgin and repeated that he wanted to avoid paying the annual 
fee on his old account and was looking to get a new account. On this occasion Mr K was 
given the correct advice. He was told that he would first have to close his old account and 
then wait six months before reapplying. Unhappy that he wasnt told in the earlier call that 
there was a six-month waiting period, Mr K asked to raise a complaint. What followed was 
further discussion which is central to this complaint, and which I set out below.
Towards the end of the call the advisor said, leave this with me Ill forward this on with 
regards to the complaint.  She was referring to their customer relations department. 
Mr K thanked the advisor and asked if he could raise one last question, stating he knew he 
was to be charged at the end of July, although not sure of the precise date. He clearly said 
that he was trying to avoid having to pay the annual fee because he didnt want to have that 
card. He said, What happens now and am I to be charged automatically? 
The advisor checked and identified that the fee was to be charged to his account in 8 days 
time, on 31 July.
Mr K said, that is what Im trying to avoid, I dont know what you suggest? The advisor 
responded, what Ill do, Ill pass this on to our customer relations team, obviously theyll 
have a look into the complaint and advise accordingly. 
Mr K said OK, so for now I just wait for a response from them? He also asked whether that 
would be by post and was told yes, although told it could also be a call or email. 
The advisor concluded by saying leave that with me then and Ill register the complaint for 
you and our customer relations department will be in contact.
Mr K was very clearly unhappy that he had been given the wrong information in his May call, 
and with only a week to go, was told that the procedure for getting a new card had changed. 
As a result he raised a complaint, which our investigator believes concerned the time he had 
to wait before applying. I think thats a bit of a side issue though, for these reasons.
 
I think that the dialogue I have set out above, between Mr K and the advisor, is crucial. He 
specifically asks if the fee will be charged automatically. He also asks what she suggests he 
does to avoid the fee. That seems crystal clear that he was wanting to avoid the fee not 
simply reduce or waive the time limit to apply for another, although I accept that was linked. The advisors response was that he should leave it with her, and Virgin would get back to 
him. That very clearly implies that a response would be provided on that very point of the 
automatic renewal and what might be done to avoid the fee, if anything, before the fee was 
to be charged. That is a logical and reasonable conclusion to reach because the nature of 
Mr Ks question demanded a response before the fee was incurred. Had it been otherwise, 
then the advisor would no doubt have said words to the effect, but whatever happens you 
will still have to close the account before the end of July, or the fee will be charged. 
The failure to get back to Mr K left him not knowing what Virgin were going to do. Had Virgin 
responded in time to say that they were not able to change their policy, then Mr K would 
have been able to close the account and avoid the fee. And I am satisfied too, on the 
balance of probabilities, that that is precisely what he would have done, because he had 
been so insistent in his earlier calls about avoiding the fee and had in fact said he wanted to 
pay off the entire balance during his first call. So, I do think that Virgin have acted unfairly 
here and Im upholding this complaint. Virgin
I know Mr K wishes to have his card fee refunded, and Ive thought about that. He has 
clearly benefitted from remaining on the old account as it attracted some additional benefits, 
although I recognise he did not want them. So, I dont think a fair resolution would be to just 
refund the fee, I think it would be fairer to simply increase the compensation for his trouble 
and upset. 
Money plc has already paid Mr K £50 in compensation which was to reflect the way in which 
the change in their process was communicated to him. But in the light of my findings above, I 
direct Virgin to pay Mr K a further £200 to reflect the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Virgin Money plc must pay Mr K a further £200 to settle this 
complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman