DRN-4426196
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined to appoint 
alternative solicitors to handle Mr Bs employment dispute under their legal expenses 
insurance policy.
Since this was Mr Bs claim, I mainly refer to him in this decision.
Where I refer to RSA, I include their claims handlers.
What happened
In around August 2022 Mr B made a claim on the legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy he 
and Mrs B had with RSA for cover to pursue an employment dispute. RSA accepted he had 
appropriate cover. And RSAs panel solicitors initially advised his claim had reasonable 
prospects of success and would be proportionate to pursue. RSA appointed them to act on 
Mr Bs behalf.
In early March 2023 the panel solicitors revised their advice. They said Mr Bs claims for 
unfair dismissal and wrongful dismissal no longer had reasonable prospects of success. 
They said although he had a good claim for breach of contract, it wouldnt be proportionate 
to pursue on its own since the costs would outweigh the amount of the claim. They told Mr B 
they would be letting RSA know and it was likely RSA would withdraw cover.
Mr B understood the panel solicitors were declining to act for him anymore. He said theyd 
made mistakes and asked RSA to appoint an alternative firm. RSA said they were entitled to 
rely on the solicitors advice about prospects and, since Mr Bs claim wasnt proportionate to 
pursue further, they withdrew cover. They said Mr B could appeal their decision by providing 
further information to see if it changed the solicitors advice. Alternatively, he could submit 
his own legal advice on the prospects of success, at his own cost, from a suitably qualified 
barrister and, if the advice was supportive, they would meet the cost.
Mr B was unhappy with RSAs response and complained. RSA didnt change their minds. 
They said as Mr Bs claim fell outside the terms and conditions of the policy, they wouldnt 
continue to cover it or appoint an alternative firm of solicitors. RSA acknowledged Mr Bs 
concerns about the actions of the panel firm but said they couldnt get involved in that. 
Mr B brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt 
think RSA had treated Mr B unfairly. Since Mr B didnt agree, the complaints been passed to 
me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mr Bs difficult circumstances and the effect theyve had on his           
well-being. I wont set out here everything he and RSA have told us. Ill focus on what is key 
in coming to my decision. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the informal 
nature of the service we provide. Id reassure the parties that Ive considered everything 
theyve said carefully.
I dont have the power to look at Mr Bs concerns about the advice the solicitors gave or the 
way in which they handled his legal claim. Once they were instructed on Mr Bs behalf, he 
became their client in relation to his employment dispute. So, hed need to raise any 
concerns about their handling of his case with them direct, which I understand he has. If hes 
unhappy with the outcome of that complaint, the next step would be to raise it with the Legal 
Ombudsman. 
I can consider Mr Bs complaint about RSA. What actually happened here was that, based 
on the updated advice the panel solicitors provided in early March 2023, RSA withdrew 
cover under the policy and would no longer meet Mr Bs legal costs.
We expect insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly and not to decline claims  or 
withdraw cover  unreasonably, in line with Financial Conduct Authority rules. So, Ive 
considered what happened against that background. The starting point is the terms and 
conditions of the LEI policy.
RSA agreed to cover Mr Bs legal costs and expenses up to a limit for certain incidents - 
including disputes relating to his employment contract - subject to the terms, conditions and 
exclusions set out in the policy. They included that there must be Reasonable Prospects 
for the duration of the claim. The policy said that to be reasonable, the prospects of 
recovering losses or damages had to be at least 51%. The policy also said the most RSA 
would pay under the policy in costs and expenses would be the value of any likely award. In 
simple terms, the costs had to be proportionate to the amount in dispute.
The solicitors advised in September 2022 that Mr Bs claim had reasonable prospects of 
success. The case was handled by a solicitor with appropriate experience in employment 
law. The advice they gave was clear and well-reasoned, and it didnt contain any obvious 
factual errors, which should have alerted non-lawyers like RSA to question it. So, I think it 
was reasonable for RSA to rely on the advice the solicitors gave initially about the prospects 
of the claims succeeding, even though Mr Bs raised concerns later on about the information 
it was based on.
The solicitors changed their advice in early March 2023 after the employer had formally 
responded to Mr Bs claim. Mr B thinks they did so because of mistakes theyd made in 
handling his case. And he says there was a conflict of interest that meant RSA should have 
agreed to appoint alternative solicitors. 
Wed generally consider a conflict of interest had arisen where the solicitors had made a 
damaging mistake that would constitute professional negligence, such as missing a 
procedural deadline. I dont think theres enough evidence to show a conflict of that sort 
arose here. 
Mr B says he missed out on getting judgment in default against the employer because the 
solicitors failed to notice and rectify a mistake in the employers address for service. But 
when Mr Bs case came before the tribunal, the judge said, broadly, he wouldnt have 
allowed the default judgment application because of the error and the uncertainty of whether 
the employer had received the claim. If the solicitors had amended the address earlier and 
re-served the claim, its possible the employer would have served its response and the 
chance of applying for a default judgment would never have arisen. 
In the circumstances, I think its reasonable to say theres some doubt about whether the solicitors mistake damaged Mr Bs case. And Im not aware of any other mistakes that might 
have led to a conflict of interest based on what Mr Bs told us. But even if Im wrong about 
that, I dont think it affects the outcome of Mr Bs complaint, as Ill explain. 
Im not aware Mr B raised any concerns with RSA about the solicitors handling of his case, 
or that he made them aware of his vulnerable state and health issues, until around the time 
of the solicitors updated advice. In the circumstances, whilst I empathise with the difficult 
time he was facing, I wouldnt have expected RSA to intervene on Mr Bs behalf in relation to 
the handling of his legal claim.
I think it was reasonable for RSA to rely on the updated advice in March 2023 partly for the 
same reasons it was reasonable for them to rely on the initial advice. In addition, its 
apparent that proceedings had moved on. The employer had submitted its response to      
Mr Bs claim. There was additional material for the solicitors to consider and advise on, so it 
wasnt surprising their advice might have changed. 
Theres nothing in the advice that suggests the solicitors were trying to cover up any 
mistakes they might have made. And even if the solicitors actions had affected the possible 
outcome of Mr Bs claim, that doesnt mean their advice about the prospects of it succeeding 
and proportionality going forward were wrong. 
Its unlikely an uninsured person would want to bear the costs of running a case where the 
prospects of success were poor or where the legal costs would exceed the value of the 
claim, as here. So, it wouldnt be fair to ask an insurer to do so either. 
In all the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for RSA to rely on the updated advice in 
coming to a decision about withdrawing funding. I think RSAs decision to withdraw cover 
was fair and reasonable. And I wouldnt expect them to have appointed another firm, even 
though I understand it left Mr B in a difficult position. 
I think RSA acted reasonably after that. They looked into Mr Bs concerns and reviewed 
them. And they gave him options reasonably promptly to submit further information about his 
claim or obtain his own legal advice. They explained too that he could continue to access the 
legal helpline for general advice about his case. Overall, they acted in the way wed expect 
them to. 
We dont generally consider complaints about complaint handling. I note RSA let Mr B know 
after the eight weeks within which they had to respond that he could bring his complaint to 
us. Theyd let him know they werent going to continue to cover his claim and their position 
didnt change after hed brought his complaint to us. So, he wasnt adversely affected by 
RSAs failure to give a reasoned response sooner. 
Bearing everything in mind, I dont think RSA treated Mr B unfairly. Whilst I am sympathetic 
to Mr Bs circumstances and appreciate he and Mrs B will be disappointed, for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Julia WilkinsonOmbudsman