DRN-2978952
The complaint
Mr L complains that BCR Legal Group Limited (BCR) provided an unsuitable structural 
buildings warranty to the developer of his house and wont pay for a replacement since the 
underwriter of the warranty became insolvent.
What happened
Mr L bought a new home from a developer. It came with a ten-year building warranty 
provided by BCRs appointed representative, that I will refer to as C. The warranty was 
underwritten by an insurer I will refer to as A.
In 2018, before the build was complete, A was declared bankrupt and all of its policies were 
terminated.
Mr L contacted the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), who had agreed to 
refund As policyholders premiums. He was offered a refund of £260, but this wasnt enough 
to cover the cost of a replacement warranty. He complained to C and subsequently to BCR.
BCR didnt agree to refund the fees so Mr L brought his complaint to this service. He said he 
thought BCR had failed to ensure its appointed representative was acting responsibly as C 
had placed warranties with A, even though it was unrated and selling much cheaper policies 
than other insurers. 
When we contacted BCR about the complaint, it said it didnt think this service had the 
authority to look into it. It said both it and C were acting as agents of A. And the activities C 
carried out werent regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. So didnt fall into our 
jurisdiction. 
Our investigator thought we did have the authority to look into the complaint. She said she 
was satisfied that C was working as an appointed representative of BCR and that it was 
carrying out regulated activities.
In relation to the merits of Mr Ls complaint, our investigator didnt recommend it was upheld. 
She said she couldnt consider matters relating to the sale of the warranty as this was 
between the developer and C, and hadnt involved Mr L. However she said she could 
consider his complaint about the policy. She concluded C had carried out the services it had 
been paid for as part of the warranty, so didnt think it should do anything further.
Mr L didnt accept this. He said C had acted irresponsibly by selling warranties that were 
underwritten by A in the first place. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our jurisdiction 
BCR says our service doesnt have the authority to look into this complaint, and others like it. 
It says C was working as an agent of A and therefore BCR wasnt responsible for Cs 
actions. Further it says surveys, inspections, risk assessments and the membership of Cs 
construction register werent regulated activities under The Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO), and our service cant consider them 
under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Ive considered this, and I am satisfied that I have jurisdiction. I find: 
(a) the activities are either part and parcel of the carrying on by C of the regulated activities 
of: (i) dealing in investments as agent (Article 21 of the RAO) or 
(ii) arranging deals in investments (Article 25 of the RAO); or 
(b) they constitute the carrying on of ancillary activities in relation to these regulated 
activities; and 
(c) the activities were ones for which BCR had accepted responsibility under the appointed 
representative agreement, such that it is responsible for Cs acts/omissions in relation to 
them.
So I find I can consider this complaint about C carrying out these activities against BCR 
under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
I will therefore proceed to consider the merits of Mr Ls complaint.
Mr Ls complaint
When considering a complaint, its my role to decide whether the business thats being 
complained about has got something wrong. And where I find it has, decide what it should 
do to put its customer back in the position they would have been in if it hadnt. 
Here, Mr L says C acted irresponsibly by providing warranties that were underwritten by A. 
And he thought the fees charged by C were disproportionate compared to the policy 
premiums, as a new policy cost him around £2,000 but he was only offered a premium 
refund of £260. He thinks C should pay for his replacement warranty.  
Its important to note that as C were acting as an appointed representative of BCR, BCR is 
responsible for Cs actions. So if I find C got something wrong, it is BCR that would be 
responsible for putting things right.
As our investigator explained, I cant look into the sale of the warranty by C. As it sold it to 
the developer of Mr Ls house before he purchased it. So he didnt have any involvement in 
the sale. However I can consider his complaint about the policy itself, as this was purchased 
for his benefit.
I understand Mr Ls concerns about the proportion of the cost of the warranty that was made 
up of Cs fees, compared to the value of the refund he has received. However structural 
warranties will usually require a number of inspections and surveys to be carried out before 
the policy can be activated. And in this case, these fees were for the services provided by C 
in order to arrange the warranty. The fees were part of the total cost in order for the warranty 
to be activated. Unfortunately, the policy is no longer in place, because A collapsed.  But C wasnt 
responsible for A collapsing. When the developer of Mr Ls house bought the warranty, it 
paid C to set up a warranty. And, as the policy has been activated, Im satisfied that this is 
what C did. So I cant say that C has done anything wrong here. 
Mr L has also said that they he thinks C acted irresponsibly by providing polices with A, as it 
was an unrated, foreign insurer who were selling cheap insurance policies. And he thinks 
that BCR didnt carry out enough checks to ensure its appointed representative was acting 
responsibly. 
Weve asked BCR to provide evidence of the due diligence carried out before placing 
policies with A. And while Im not able to share details of these checks due to the information 
being commercially sensitive, Im satisfied that it met the requirements laid out by the 
regulator. And as the warranty was arranged between C and the developer some time 
before A collapsed, I dont think it could have reasonably foreseen that this would happen 
when it arranged cover. So I dont think C acted unreasonably by providing the policy with A.
I understand Mr L has had to pay around £2,000 for a replacement warranty and thinks BCR 
should pay for the replacement. However neither C nor BCR are obliged to provide a 
replacement policy in the event of an insurer collapsing. So it hasnt acted unfairly by not 
offering a replacement warranty.
For these reasons I dont think C, or BCR, has done anything wrong, so I wont ask BCR to 
do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman