DRN-3834858
The complaint
Mrs H says Santander UK Plc failed to set up her direct debits as part of her current account 
switch.
What happened
Mrs H moved her account to Santander using the Current Account Switch Service (CASS), 
She says Santander didnt move her direct debits across in time and so she was chased and 
charged for late payments up until 3 December 2021. She had to call the beneficiaries to 
reset up the instructions over the phone. And this left her without a tv license, without tax 
and insurance on her car, and no insurance for her horse or for her whilst riding. It was very 
stressful.
Santander says it made no error and the direct debits were set up on Mrs Hs account by 9 
November 2021. Nevertheless it offered Mrs H £30 as a gesture of goodwill, she declined 
this.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. She issued two outcomes but I will 
summarise here only the second as that is the current opinion from this service. She said 
Santander had evidenced that the direct debit instructions were in place by 9 November 
2021 so it was not at fault.
Unhappy with this assessment Mrs H asked for an ombudsmans review. In summary, she 
said she still had no explanation as to why her direct debit payments were not made. She 
said that Santander had not met the terms of the switch guarantee, specifically as it had not 
paid her beneficiaries.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive read and carefully considered everything Mrs Hs sent us when looking at her complaint. 
If I havent directly responded to each point raised it isnt because I havent considered it. I 
have. But in line with our role as a quick and informal dispute resolution service, and as our 
rules allow, I am focusing here on what I find to be material to the outcome of this complaint. 
Mrs H highlighted and sent in the part of the switch guarantee that she says Santander did 
not meet - We will complete the switch of information about your payment beneficiaries and 
your regular payment mandates from your Old Bank to your New Account on the same day. 
But I disagree. Santander submitted evidence, in the form of both email confirmation from its 
switching team and a screenshot, that shows Mrs Hs direct debts were in place by 9 
November 2021. So I cannot hold Santander liable for payments not being collected through 
November and early December. It might help to a explain a little more about direct debits. I 
apologise if Mrs H already knows this but, as I know she will be frustrated by my findings, my 
intention is only to better explain why I cannot find Santander to be at fault.
A direct debit is a customer's authority to allow a person or organisation to claim a variable 
amount, on a variable day from their account. It's also the customer's instruction to their 
bank or building society to allow the payments to be taken. So the money is claimed from a 
customer's account - it's a 'pull' payment, rather than a 'push' payment (such as a standing 
order). So as long as Santander had Mrs Hs direct debit instructions in place on her account 
on time, which I am satisfied it did, it had met its obligations. Her beneficiaries were then 
responsible for requesting payment. Its unclear why they were unable to collect payment, 
but from what Ive seen, Im satisfied Mrs Hs direct debit instructions were in place to 
facilitate this. So, I dont consider Santander did anything wrong in this regard. 
It follows I am not instructing Santander to take any further action.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman