DRN-2278779
The complaint
Mr H complains that esure Insurance Limited provided poor service after he made a claim on 
his motor insurance policy and didnt offer him enough for his written-off car.
What happened
Mr H found it hard to log his claim in April 2020, as he couldnt get through to the right 
advisors. He also found that esures contact with him was poor. But his complaint about 
these issues was resolved quickly. There was then a problem with his partners driving 
licence code. esures advisor said the claim could be validated quickly if he removed her 
name from the policy. It tried to charge Mr H for doing that, although the charge was then 
waived. esures advisor told Mr H to discuss the loss of personal items in the car with the 
engineer who was going to call about the cars validation. But that advice wasnt correct - 
and Mr H didnt accept the engineers offer for the car.
esure later reviewed its offer but wouldnt increase it, so Mr H made a further complaint. He 
was then told that any payments from esure would be made by cheque. Mr H asked for 
direct payments into his bank instead, given government guidelines on social distancing 
during the pandemic. Initially, esure didnt agree to that, but it then changed its decision. 
Mr H says that around this time, an advisor told him that in his opinion, the engineers 
valuation for his car was too low. But Mr H was then told that esure hadnt upheld his 
complaint about the valuation. Shortly afterwards, he received payment from esure by 
cheque - but esure then asked for his bank details and cancelled the cheques.
 
esures formal response to Mr Hs second complaint said his concerns about the valuation 
had already been dealt with by its engineering team. It said that esure had departed from its 
usual method of payment by cheque, given the concerns hed raised about the pandemic. 
esure also said that although Mr H had raised other concerns about the handling of his 
claim, theyd been addressed by a manager previously  and Mr H had accepted an apology 
and had agreed that the matter was resolved. Mr H replied to say that there had been further 
poor service since then and he set out the details. He says he got no response to his email.  
One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint. She thought esures valuation for the 
car was reasonable. She said the sum it had offered was higher than those set out as likely 
selling prices for similar cars in the national trade guides. And she thought esure had dealt 
with the service issues Mr H had raised in his first complaint.  Mr H didnt agree with the 
investigator about the cars valuation. He said it hadnt dealt with the later service issues. As 
there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H was satisfied with the way esure dealt with his first complaint, but not with the valuation 
of his car. I think esure valued the car in the way wed expect, by relying on the valuations 
set out in the national trade guides. We think its fair to ignore a valuation thats out of line 
with the others. esure took an average of three of the trade guide prices (leaving out the one 
that gave the lowest valuation). Thats how it arrived at its offer of £15,035. We checked the 
trade guides independently. The average of the valuations we found (disregarding the 
lowest) produced a figure that was less than the sum esure offered Mr H. 
Mr H provided adverts showing cars he thought were similar to his for sale at higher prices. 
But we rarely find adverts persuasive, as they reflect asking prices, as opposed to likely 
selling prices. And small differences between cars that seem to be similar can make a big 
difference to their selling prices. So although Ive considered the adverts Mr H found, I think 
esure made a reasonable offer for his car. I dont think the view expressed by one of esures 
advisors is relevant, as he wasnt an engineer or involved in the valuation process. 
After the investigator issued her view, Mr H said esure hadnt addressed several of the later 
service issues hed raised, so we asked it for clarification. 
In terms of the standard charge for taking Mr Hs partners name off the policy, esure thought 
it had dealt with Mr Hs concerns by waiving it. But Mr H was upset about having had to 
argue about it, as esures advisor had failed to say that there was normally a charge for any 
change to the policy. esure didnt address this specific issue, but as Mr H didnt have to pay 
anything, I think the effect of the poor service here was relatively minor. 
 
esure accepts that Mr H was told in error that its engineer would discuss the loss of personal 
items with him. But it said that error had no impact, as its total loss team called him the next 
day to discuss the matter instead. Although thats true, from Mr Hs point of view, esure still 
gave him the wrong advice, which he found frustrating. In my opinion, esure made a minor 
error here, and the impact of it was limited. 
In terms of esures payment  method, esure said it had already dealt with that in its final 
response letter. It said it had changed its usual payment method, given Mr Hs concerns. So 
again, in its view, there was no impact on Mr H arising from this issue. esure didnt address 
the fact that - despite agreeing to pay Mr H by bank transfer  it still sent him cheques before 
asking for his bank details. I think there was an impact on Mr H from that error, as he was 
frustrated by getting the cheques after he thought the matter had been resolved. 
    
In my opinion, esure should have replied to the email Mr H sent it, setting out his remaining 
concerns. I agree with him that esures overall service could have been better. But looking at 
the situation as a whole, I think esure tried to deal with most of his concerns in a reasonable 
and timely way. It made Mr H a reasonable offer for his car, it didnt charge for the policy 
amendment and it agreed to a suitable method of payment. 
Although I think there was some poor service on esures part, as I dont think it did anything 
substantially wrong, in my opinion it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to require it to pay Mr H 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. So Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I must ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman