DRN-3670805
The complaint
Through his representative, Mr W complains about various issues relating to his Santander 
UK Plc Investment Hub account, and he has the following main concerns:
the fall in value of his investment 
problems getting through to Santander on the phone
not receiving statements for his Investment Hub account 
more recently, he told us he feels that hes been discriminated against on the basis of 
his age and the fact he doesnt use the internet.
 
Mr W has asked for compensation to reflect financial loss and the stress hes experienced 
trying to get through to Santander during the Covid crisis.
Im grateful to Mr Ws representative for the assistance provided throughout this complaint. 
However, to help keep things simpler, Ill refer in my decision to Mr W since this is a 
complaint about his account. 
What happened
Mr W held an account on Santanders Investment Hub, which enabled him to view and 
manage his investments within the Hub. Hub accounts can be operated by account holders 
online or over the phone. 
When Mr W contacted Santander about not having received statements through the post, 
Santander said it appreciated the problem this situation had caused him but that it had 
checked and this wasnt the result of Santander having done anything wrong. Santander 
assured Mr W that there was nothing in its records that would have resulted in statements 
not being sent or that would interfere with his post being delivered. Santander said when it 
posted a statement, it also uploaded a copy onto the Investment Hub so Mr W could view 
the same information online and that it had regularly been issuing quarterly statements. 
Santander offered to send duplicate copies if that would be helpful.
In relation to his complaint about the value of his investment, Santander said the fund Mr W 
held was focused on providing income as opposed to capital growth and invested exclusively 
in bonds. However, recent volatility across all investment markets had impacted 
performance and value and it had taken necessary steps to mitigate as much of the risk as it 
could.
Mr W didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so he brought his complaint to us 
and one of our investigators looked into what happened. 
Our investigator didnt feel he had seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ws complaint. In 
brief summary, he said:
hed seen nothing to suggest that Santander hadnt posted the statements to Mr Ws 
address and Santander wasnt responsible for problems with the post
information about the value of his investment was available to Mr W through other 
means in any event  
although it took longer to get through on Santanders investment phone line during 
the pandemic, it had been open and accepting calls
information about the performance and value of the investment was available to view 
online
investment values can fluctuate. Mr Ws investment was designed to provide a 
regular income, the investigator hadnt seen anything to suggest the regular income 
wasnt received and the investment value had increased between deposit and 
withdrawal, so Mr W hadnt suffered a loss
the fund Mr W was invested in was based in bonds which were generally a safer sort 
of investment, but the value of nearly all investments had been affected by large 
price movements within global markets which were beyond Santanders control. 
Mr W disagreed with our investigator. He mainly said he was elderly and didnt use internet 
services online and should have been able to access sufficient resources considering his 
age. He said Santander was responsible for ensuring customers could contact the business 
and he had tried to phone Santander, but due to Covid and staff shortages he hadnt been 
able to get through within an acceptable time. He felt he had been discriminated against 
because of his age. He said he did not receive statements or he would have acted promptly 
and that Santander should be held at least partly responsible. 
Our investigator considered these further points but wasnt persuaded to change his view. 
He didnt feel that Santander had acted unfairly or unreasonably and said it wouldnt have 
been fair for Santander to assume that Mr W didnt use the internet because of his age.  
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr W  I can completely understand that whats happened has been 
upsetting and frustrating for him. But having thought about everything I've seen and been 
told, Ive independently reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why I say this. 
I do appreciate how strongly Mr W feels about this complaint. I want to assure him that Ive 
carried out an independent review and considered everything he has told me. We provide an 
informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive approached the 
complaint. Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues I need to 
address in order to reach a fair outcome. This means I wont necessarily mention everything 
Mr W has brought to my attention and Ive expressed some of his concerns in my own 
words. But I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint and try and deal with his main complaint issues.  
The key part of Mr Ws complaint, as I understand it, is that he feels let down by Santander 
because regular statements he was expecting to receive in the post didnt arrive and he 
was unable to speak to Santander on the phone to obtain the information he needed to 
make investment decisions. 
I can see why he might have felt this made it difficult for him to stay on top of managing his 
investment in the Investment Hub. But, in order to uphold his complaint about Santander, 
I would need to see enough evidence to show that it did something wrong or acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in some way. 
Santander explained this part of its process as follows: 
When we post a statement to you, we also upload a copy on to your Investment Hub so 
you may view it online.
Mr W held his most recent Hub account from end-December 2020 and Santander has 
provided screenshots from its records which show quarterly statements were produced on 
the following dates:
 27/2/21
 22/5/21
 4/9/21
 18/12/21
 12/3/22
 21/5/22 Santander has confirmed that the statements could be seen online and that duplicate 
paper copies of these statements were available if required. 
I have no reason at all to doubt that Mr W is certain about what hes told us. But I also have 
to give due weight to what Santander has told me and the information it has provided in 
support of what it says. The matter for me to decide is whether Im persuaded Santander 
sent the statements. I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is 
most likely on a balance of probabilities. This means making some reasonable assumptions 
where theres only limited information. And I must be impartial. 
Santander has sent me information from its electronic system records that shows it produced 
the statements on the dates it said. From what Santander has told us about its process for 
communicating this information, statements available to view on the hub (as it says these 
were) would have been sent to Mr W  which is what Santander says did happen. Santander 
has confirmed that the address it holds on record for Mr W is his correct address (and this 
appears to be the case as I can see it has written to him at that address). 
I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for any possible problems with postal deliveries or 
other matters beyond its control. 
On balance, I dont find that the available evidence is enough to support Mr Ws complaint 
that Santander failed to send him the statements he expected to receive in the post. 
The fact alone that Mr W didnt have access to a computer, so he wasnt able to look at his 
statements online, isnt a reason for me to uphold his complaint. 
As Mr W could also manage his Hub account over the phone, its reasonable to expect 
Santander to provide its customers with access to a call handler for that purpose. And I've 
taken into account that Mr W told us he gave up after waiting over an hour on two occasions 
and when he asked in branch to try and make contact, it still took more than half an hour. 
Santander has explained that the issues arising out of the pandemic meant that, like most 
firms with contact centres, it took longer to get through on the phone. Ive thought carefully 
about this and I dont think thats an unreasonable response to this part of Mr Ws complaint. 
Government guidance about work and travel arrangements along with having to manage 
staff illness and absence wouldve impacted on Santanders ability to provide a normal level 
of service for most of 2020 and beyond. Even though government restrictions were lifted 
during the course of 2021, I think its likely that ongoing issues arising from Covid, such as 
continuing staffing issues and changes in work patterns, alongside increasing customer 
demand on services as normal everyday life resumed, could likely still have impacted on 
Santanders customer service when Mr W was trying to get through to Santander on the 
phone. 
I completely understand that this was very inconvenient for Mr W. But Santander has 
confirmed its Investment team was always available by telephone if Mr W had been 
prepared to hold on in order to obtain a current valuation of his holding. And, despite 
everything, it appears Mr W was able to undertake some transactions by going into a 
Santander branch. So, the contact problems Mr W experienced arent enough of a reason 
for me to uphold his complaint.     I cant see any evidence to suggest that Santander treated Mr W unfairly by reason of his 
age or lack of access to a computer. In the absence of being told of any difficulties, it 
wouldnt have been fair of Santander to consider that Mr Ws age alone meant he wouldnt 
have had access to the internet or that this account wasnt suitable for him simply by reason 
of it being set up as an online platform. And the fact that Mr W could, and did successfully, 
access his account other than online shows that his age or circumstances werent barriers to 
him being able to manage his investment.
All this leads me to the conclusion that I havent seen enough overall to be able to say that 
Santander has done anything wrong or acted in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So 
I cant uphold this complaint or award the compensation Mr W would like me to. 
I hope that setting things out as I've done explains how I've reached my conclusions and 
even though this isnt the outcome Mr W hoped for, he will at least feel that his complaint has 
been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman