DRN-3633376
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the suitability of the advice given to her in 2008 by Chandler King 
(City) Ltd to open an Offshore Collective Redemption Bond and the subsequent investment 
recommendations.
Mrs W has complained about the suitability of the advice given to her by Chandler King in 
respect of a personal pension plan and the Offshore Collective Redemption Bond (the bond). 
This Services view was the complaint about the personal pension plan couldnt be 
considered as it was outside of our jurisdiction as it was made too late under the regulators 
rules. But we did think we could consider the advice surrounding the bond, and this has 
been accepted by both Mrs W and Chandler King. As such this decision will focus solely on 
the advice Mrs W was given to open the bond, and the subsequent associated investment 
recommendations.
What happened
In December 2008 Mrs W met with Chandler King for her annual financial review. As a 
result, Chandler King recommended she consolidate several of her existing investments into 
the bond. The reasons for this recommendation were documented as follows:
Wider diversification of investments
Investor protection
Wider access to available funds
Improved future tax planning, including adding or removing potential beneficiaries 
The ability to take up to 5% of the initial investment as tax-free annual income.
Mrs Ws attitude to investment risk (ATR) was recorded as Balanced. 
The recommendation was accepted and the bond was opened with the following 
investments:
Cash fund - approx. 52%
Brandeaux Student Accommodation - approx. 27%
Matrix Alternative Ascension - approx. 21%
In March 2010 signed a document which certified she was a high net worth (HNW) 
individual. This meant, in essence, that Chandler King could promote to her investments 
which may not have been approved by the then regulator, the Financial Services Authority.
There was a further annual review completed in 2012 by Chandler King, with its 
recommendations documented in a letter to Mrs W in October 2012. In this it advised she 
invest a proportion (£40,000) of the cash reserves into TCA Global Credit Master (TCA). The 
letter went on to give a summary of the ethos of the fund, and that it had a 2% annual 
management charge. There was also a 3% initial fee (£1,200) and an ongoing advice fee of 
0.5%.
Chandler King also pointed out in this recommendation that TCA was an unregulated 
collective investment scheme (UCIS) and as such was not covered by the financial services 
compensation scheme, so she could lose all the investment value should the fund default.
This recommendation was accepted and on 25 October 2012 TCA was purchased from the 
cash element of the bond, costing £40,000 including the initial fee. 
Annual reviews continued to occur, and the following changes to the bond were made:
2014  the bond restructured into a gift trust (The [W] Trust) with beneficiaries 
nominated.
2015  Invest the funds gained from the Brandeaux fund to invest £30,000 into the 
7IM balanced portfolio and £15,000 into AXA Framlington Health fund. This would 
continue to provide Mrs W an income.
In 2020 the TCA fund was placed into receivership and now has a nil value.
Having contacted our service to complain, Mrs Ws complaint was referred to Chandler King. 
It issued its final response on 21 December 2021 rejecting her complaint and explained why 
it considered its advice had been suitable to her circumstances and objectives.
Mrs W didnt agree and asked for our Service to investigate her concerns. But having 
considered the advice given to Mrs W by Chandler King to open the bond and the 
subsequent investment recommendations, our Investigator didnt think her complaint should 
be upheld. He thought it was appropriate as it matched her investment objectives because, 
in summary:
It consolidated all her investments into one plan, to achieve more diversification, 
investor protection, access to offshore funds and possible future inheritance planning  
She was able to take her required income from the fund without any immediate tax 
liability.
As the fund was off-shore no UK taxes are paid by the fund allowing the 
investments to grow without tax deductions.
He also thought the asset allocation was in line with Mrs Ws ATR. 
Focussing on the TCA recommendation, he thought that Mrs W probably had signed the 
HNW document in 2010 and, having reviewed her financial and personal circumstances at 
the time, he thought she did qualify to be categorised as such. He noted that although TCA 
was a relatively high-risk investment, it was balanced with lower risk elements so overall 
matched Mrs Ws ATR at the time. And he noted that in a signed document in 2013 Mrs Ws 
ATR increased to Moderate to Adventurous 4/5. So, as our investigator thought the 
recommendation made in respect of the bond was suitable, he didnt uphold her complaint.  
But Mrs W didnt agree. She thought the high-risk nature of the TCA fund was unsuitable for 
her given her moderate ATR, and she wasnt aware of the reasons for, or the implications of 
signing the HNW declaration. As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I agree with the view of the investigator, for broadly the same reasons. 
When assessing the suitability of advice, I have to take into account the requirements set out 
by the financial regulator at the time of the advice. In this case, the advice to open an 
Offshore Collective Redemption Bond (the bond) occurred in 2008. The rules at this time 
can be found in the FCA Handbook under COBS 2.1. 
COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client.
The suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Chandler King advised Mrs W 
were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Chandler King, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for 
their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk 
beyond their investment objective and risk profile. 
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, 
Chandler King needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its 
advice met Mrs Ws objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets 
out the requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. Ive 
therefore considered the suitability of Chandler Kings advice in the context of the above 
requirements.
In essence, Chandler King had to establish Mrs Ws:
knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice
financial situation
investment objectives
and from the information obtained, Chandler King had to be satisfied that:
the investment recommendation met Mrs Ws investment objectives (including her 
ATR, and the purpose and intended duration of the investments)
Mrs W was able to financially withstand the investment risks
Mrs W had the necessary experience or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
Having looked at the personal recommendation Chandler King prepared for Mrs W, Im 
satisfied that the above requirements were complied with. I can see it considered her 
employment status (she was retired), her regular income, her assets, both liquid and illiquid, 
and her regular financial commitments. It also considered what additional income she would 
need to take from her investments. Im also satisfied that the range of investments 
recommended and taken out in 2008, when assessed together, broadly matched her 
Balanced ATR.
I can also see that there was a review carried out, at least annually, and can see that 
Mrs Ws financial and personal circumstances, along with her ATR were reassessed. Which 
brings me to the HNW declaration. This was dated and signed on 2 March 2010. Although 
Mrs W asserts she didnt understand the implications of this document, and I clearly cant 
know for sure what happened or what she was told when this was signed, I think it was more 
likely than not that she read and understood the document. I think this because the 
document itself is only a little more than one page long, with a limited number of bulleted 
points to read. It also requires the signatory to declare certain important points regarding their income or assets, and these I think wouldve been likely to generate at least some 
discussion with her advisor.  
Turning to the ongoing investment advice, I can see the crux of Mrs Ws complaint is the 
suitability of the TCA fund. As has been said, this was a UCIS. A UCIS is a collective 
investment scheme  so a structure whereby many investors pool their money to be invested 
by a fund manager with the aim of providing growth or income to be shared amongst 
investors. But UCIS dont comply with the rules which would make them qualify for the 
different regulated fund categories. So, they aren't subject to the same requirements as a 
regulated collective scheme - for example, restrictions on the types and spread of assets it 
contains. For this reason, there are restrictions on the type of retail customer they can be 
promoted to. And being a HNW individual is one type of customer to which UCIS can be 
promoted. 
Mrs W signed the declaration that she was a HNW individual. And, having looked at her 
financial circumstances recorded at the time, I agree she met the conditions required to be 
declared as such. A HNW individual needed to have had net assets of about £250,000 in the 
preceding year, not taking into account their main home or pension. And I can see Mrs W 
owned a second home outright (which was rented out) and had significant funds within the 
bond. So, Im satisfied that she qualified to be categorised as HNW.
But whilst Chandler King was able to promote UCIS to Mrs W being a HNW individual, that 
doesnt automatically mean they should. For the recommendation to be suitable it was still 
required to match her objectives, circumstances and ATR. And Im satisfied it did.
Although the TCA fund, being a UCIS, would be seen on its own as a high-risk investment, 
when taking into account the risks associated with the other funds within the bond I can see 
the lower risk elements, including the remaining cash fund, went some way to balancing the 
higher-risk element. So, Im satisfied that the overall recommendations for the investments 
within the bond matched Mrs Ws balanced ATR.
It should also be noted that the TCA fund was purchased from part of the cash reserves 
within the bond. So, the income she was already receiving from the the bond wouldve 
continued and been unaffected by the purchase of TCA. And she still had her other house-
rental income. I can also see from her objectives that the bond was intended to be a long-
term investment, probably for the future benefit of her children. So given her circumstances, I 
think Mrs W was in a position where she could take a risk with some of her capital. 
Mrs W has questioned the fact that her ATR was increased from balanced to Moderate to 
Adventurous as she doesnt think this is an accurate representation. But I can see this 
document appears to be signed and dated by Mrs W in December 2013, and Ive not seen 
anything which suggests this was questioned at the time. And it also should be noted that 
this occurred a year after the TCA fund was purchased, so it cant be said to have affected 
the recommendation around the TCA fund.
Taking everything into account, I think the initial investment recommendation given to Mrs W 
by Chandler King was broadly suitable for her. I appreciate she has concerns with the 
suitability and the subsequent suspension of the TCA funds, but I cant look at this complaint 
with the benefit of hindsight. It is very unfortunate that TCA now has a nil value, but I dont 
think this was reasonably foreseeable at the time the advice to invest was given. And as Ive 
said, Im satisfied that overall, the advice surrounding the bond was suitable. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman