DRN-4027550
The complaint
Mr T complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc has treated him unfairly when it declined to 
refund him fully for a holiday booking.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr T paid for a package coach holiday for himself and also fifteen family 
members and friends on his Tesco credit card. This package was supplied by a Company Ill 
call Firm L and was due to take place in October 2020. The Pandemic took hold and Mr T 
was offered a voucher. Before Mr T could gain the benefit of the voucher Firm L collapsed. 
So, left with no holiday and no refund, Mr T took his dispute to Tesco.
Tesco considered the matter and didnt take Chargeback any further due to the matter being 
outside of the time limit rules. It also considered a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. It offered Mr T a refund equivalent to his and his spouses portion of the 
costs but didnt offer him anything in relation to the other fourteen travellers in the group. Mr 
T thought this was unfair and so has brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ts complaint and told Tesco that it should pay the amount Mr T 
spent on his card for the package holiday, namely £3,649. Tesco didnt agree and so this 
complaint came to me to decide.
In February I issued a provisional decision saying Tesco should pay the full amount. Both Mr 
T and Tesco have responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Mr T said he was very pleased with it, accepted it and 
noted that hed declined the partial refund that Tesco had offered him.
Tesco said in response to my provisional decision We think we've provided sufficient 
explanation behind our decision, and we believe it to be correct. However, at this stage we 
have nothing new to add. I consider this a disappointing response from Tesco. In my 
provisional decision I had set out my analysis of the key aspects around the arrangements 
here and explained why I considered Tescos position to be erroneous. I specifically asked 
Tesco to provide a detailed legal analysis if it didnt agree. Yet it has chosen not to do so for 
reasons unclear, whilst implicitly acknowledging it had opportunity to do so.
As neither party has raised any material arguments against my provisional position I see no 
persuasive reason to deviate from the position set out in my provisional position. Accordingly 
Mr Ts complaint is successful for the reasons below as was set out in my provisional 
decision (in italics).
Section 75
Here I must consider what Tesco should do. To do this, I have to decide what I think is fair 
and reasonable, having regard to, amongst other things, any relevant law. In this case, the 
relevant law is S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) which says that, in certain 
circumstances, if Mr T paid for goods or services on him credit card and there was a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the Supplier, Tesco can be held responsible.
Tesco offered a refund to Mr T of £456.12 in relation to his, and his spouses, share of the 
total cost of the trip. So it is clear that Tesco accept that the qualifying criteria for a liability 
under S75 is in place here. But it contends the span of that liability by stating that its liability 
doesnt extend to the other members of the party who Mr T paid for. It argues that those 
individuals have separate contracts between each of them and Firm L. Tesco has said:
The terms you've referred to confirms that Mr T is a lead booker - nothing more. He is the 
contact point between the supplier and each of the individual travellers - for practical 
reasons, and it's not entirely unusual for this to happen in bookings like this. Each individual 
traveller's package is itemised within the invoice, creating 16 individual contracts. Each 
individual traveller has their own agreement with the supplier, Tesco only have a relationship 
with Mr T and his partner, therefore it is only for that portion we're liable under Section 75. 
Although under PTR (Package Travel Regulations) each traveller is due a full refund, Tesco 
are not liable to cover this where the DCS doesn't exist.
Firstly I should start off by saying that Tescos arguments here are unpersuasive for the 
following reasons. Whether there are individual contracts created here or not it doesnt 
necessarily follow that would mean that there isnt a wider contract that Mr T entered into 
including the other members of the party which Tesco could be responsible for. Such 
situations are not mutually exclusive. Secondly Tesco says it only has a relationship with Mr 
T and his partner therefore it is only for that portion were liable under S75. However in this 
case Mr T is the card holder and account holder solely. This is not a joint account, so it 
doesnt, at least directly, have a relationship with Mr Ts partner in relation to this account. 
So Tesco, by offering for Mr Ts partner is implicitly acknowledging that its responsibility 
carries beyond solely its customer and presumably through the relevant law with regard to 
joint affairs. Thirdly it goes on to say its not liable where DCS doesnt exist but clearly the 
qualifying criteria are met for a liability under S75 otherwise it wouldnt have implicitly 
accepted this by making an offer. So it is clear to me that Tescos arguments here are 
unpersuasive.
So does Tescos liability here extend to the other travellers?
In order to decide on this the relevant law needs to be considered in light of the arrangement 
made here to establish whether Tesco are liable.
Mr T alone handled the booking and paid for all of the booking on his Tesco card, so it 
seems he contracted with Firm L to purchase all the bookings here. Firm Ls terms and 
conditions recognise that one passenger must book tickets for others as Lead Booker (see 
the definition we will only deal with the lead booking name) and requires:
You must be at least 18 years old at the time of booking & possess the legal capacity & 
authority to book as the lead name & travel on holidays with us & take up the offers 
advertised by us if they are still available. You are responsible for ensuring the accuracy of 
the personal details or any other information supplied in respect of yourself & any other 
person travelling on the booking & for passing on any information regarding the booking or 
any changes made in relation thereto, to all persons travelling on the said booking, including 
but not limited to information on schedule changes or copies of booking confirmations.So, as Mr T was the designated lead booking name, there can be no doubt that he 
contracted with Firm L as agent on behalf of himself and the other party members. And I 
note that Tesco so far have not argued on the point of agency in its arguments to this 
service.
So whether Mr T, as the person who made the booking, acting as agent on behalf of the 
others retained a right to sue for breach of the others contracts with Firm L would be a 
matter of interpretation of the contract in place here. That is because an agent may, or may 
not, have a right to sue, depending on what the parties have agreed.
So the question arises whether, on the true interpretation of the contract between Mr T and 
Firm L, whether it was agreed he could retain a right to sue Firm L in respect of all of the 
bookings (not just his own). And here the terms of Firm L are clear in the contract:
Whether you book alone or as a group, we will only deal with the lead booking name in all
subsequent correspondence, including changes, amendments & cancellations.
So it is clear to me that Mr T as Lead Booker and acting as Agent for all the travellers not 
only retained the right to sue on his own behalf but also contractually was the only person 
entitled to liaise with Firm L in relation to cancellations. And the terms go on to say in the 
situation where Firm L cancels a booking that:
We reserve the right to cancel your holiday in any circumstances but if we cancel your 
holiday you can either have a refund or accept a replacement holiday from us of equivalent 
or closely similar standard & price (if one is available).
Accordingly I have established that Mr T was entitled to book as agent for the other 
travellers, had express contractual rights to deal solely with Firm L regarding cancellations 
and that a full refund was available in these circumstances. So It naturally follows that as 
Firm L didnt provide the refund there is a breach and that Mr T is entitled to claim on behalf 
of the other travellers for the entire cost. And under S75 Tesco are jointly and severally liable 
for breaches by Firm L. Accordingly I find that Tesco hasnt considered Mr Ts s75 claim to it 
fairly. And thus it should remedy this unfairness.
For the above reasons and because Tesco has provided no persuasive arguments to the 
contrary it is my final decision that Mr T is successful in his complaint.
Putting things right
Accordingly I direct Tesco to:
Refund the £3,649 cost of the holiday to Mr Ts credit card account, backdating this 
to 6 July 2021 - being the date I think Tesco should have settled his claim.
Reconstruct Mr Ts credit card account to reflect that the refund was given on
this date, ensuring that any associated interest or charges are reversed.
If, after doing so, this shows Mr T would have been in credit for any periods, Tesco 
should pay 8% annual simple interest on such amounts from the date he would have 
been in credit until the date Tesco settles this matter.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about Tesco Personal Finance Plc, and it must redress the matter for 
the reasons given in the manner described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman