DRN-2576595
The complaint
Miss B complains that Dudley Building Society wont waive the early repayment charge 
(ERC) that she will have to pay when she sells her property. Miss B would like Dudley to 
waive the ERC.
What happened
Miss B owned a property with her mothers ex-partner. She then bought his share of the 
property. Miss Bs mother, who is living in the property has a disabling illness and is on 
Universal Credit although she is going to live abroad.  Miss B has exhausted all her savings. 
She has made the decision to sell her house to ensure she can pay her credit card bills and 
not to worry about the house being repossessed for being unable to make the mortgage 
payments after a six months mortgage holiday. Miss B would like Dudley to waive the ERC 
when she sells the property.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as under the terms 
of the mortgage product offer, Miss B had agreed to pay the ERC if she redeemed the 
mortgage. Miss B disagreed saying that this service had taken a different view in a similar 
case.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has decided that she can no longer continue to make the mortgage payments and 
wants to sell her property, but she wants Dudley to waive the ERC that will be payable. Miss 
B, advised by an intermediary, asked Dudley to lend her money which Dudley did, and Miss 
B also took out a mortgage product with a discounted rate of interest. A term of the mortgage 
product is that If Miss B redeems the mortgage within five years, that she pays an ERC. An 
ERC is a charge which a lender raises to protect itself from losses as a result of the early 
repayment of mortgage products. If a mortgage is redeemed early the lender suffers a loss 
and the ERC is there to cover that loss. Dudley, I see from its notes, can waive the ERC in 
some exceptional circumstances but this doesnt fall into the category of exceptional 
circumstances for that purpose.
Dudley in its submissions says that it realised that Miss B was in financial difficulties and 
offered to look at a range of possible strategies to assist her. Miss B had the benefit of a 
payment holiday, at the end of which the arrears were capitalised. I then note that Miss B 
enquired about letting the property and Dudley provided information about this. Miss B then 
got a further payment holiday. The society says that it would have looked at alternative 
forbearance arrangements such as a term extension, repayment type switch or permission 
to let on the property subject to Miss B meeting the criteria. In cases of borrowers in financial 
difficulties we expect lenders to act positively and sympathetically and Dudley seems to have 
done that.
Miss B has decided to sell her property and wants Dudley to accept less than its owed. Miss 
B has referred us to a case with similar aspects to hers wherein the lender agreed to a 
reduction in the ERC. I have noted that case, but I have to look at each complaint 
individually in deciding whats fair and reasonable. I note that there is equity in the property. I 
understand Miss B hopes to sell for £430,000 and wants to pay off her credit card debts.  
Miss B has supplied me with some information about those debts she owes to credit card 
companies. On my rough calculations, it seems that those debts and Dudley can be paid 
from the sale of the property. In any case, even if all the credit card debts couldnt be paid, it 
would be unfair if I didnt allow Dudley to collect its secured debt in order to allow Miss B to 
pay her unsecured debt. That would seem to me to be giving an unfair preference to Miss 
Bs unsecured creditors which I cant fairly do.
I am also mindful that in this case that if I require Dudley to waive the ERC it doesnt benefit 
Miss B in her housing situation. Miss B lives abroad in any case and I understand that her 
mother is moving there too. In addition, I have to consider that I would be imposing a loss on 
Dudley. In deciding on a complaint under the rules that govern us one of the considerations I 
am specifically directed towards is the law and that supports Dudleys claim to the ERC. So, 
taking all this into consideration, I dont believe I can fairly deprive Dudley of its legal 
entitlement to the ERC and I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman