DRN-3170604
Complaint
Miss C has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly continued applying 
charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought HSBC should have realised 
that Miss C was already struggling to manage by December 2014 and so it shouldnt have 
added the charges it did from this point onwards. HSBC didnt accept our adjudicators view. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it continued 
adding interest and associated fees and charges to Miss Cs account from December 2014. 
By this point, it was evident that Miss C was struggling and that continuing to charge her was 
likely to cause significant adverse consequences. 
A cursory look at her statements leading up to this period showed that shed exceeded her 
overdraft limit every month and paying a significant amount of unarranged overdraft charges.  
Miss Cs monthly wage might have exceeded the charges, but I dont think that the fact that 
all of her wage wasnt swallowed up by charges means that she could afford the charges or 
that she wasnt experiencing difficulty. And I say this while mindful that Miss C was making 
payments to at least one debt collector too. 
So overall I think that by December 2014, I think HSBC ought to have realised that Miss C 
was struggling and, in these circumstances, it should have instead treated Miss C with 
forbearance, even if this meant taking corrective action in relation to her account. 
All of this means that HSBC should have realised that Miss C was struggling and as her 
account conduct had suggested the fees had become unsustainable shouldnt have 
continued charging in the same way. As HSBC didnt react to Miss Cs account conduct and 
instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Miss C ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when she was 
already experiencing difficulty. So I think that Miss C lost out because of what HSBC did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Miss C
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Cs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Cs account balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from December 2014 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Miss C to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If HSBC considers it appropriate to record negative information on     
Miss Cs credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action on the account from December 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss C along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Cs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman