DRN-2594098
The complaint
Ms I complains on behalf of Mr R, for whom she holds lasting power of attorney, that Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax sent his statements to the wrong address  and didnt 
adequately explain how the error occurred.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in January 2021, which set out the background to the case 
and what I was minded to decide:
Mr R holds a current account with Halifax. Ms I has explained that, due to Mr Rs 
health and the power of attorney, she had instructed Halifax to send Mr Rs 
statements to her address. But when she visited Mr Rs care home around July 2020, 
she discovered that the correspondence had been sent there instead. She 
complained to Halifax, which paid £150 compensation. It corrected the address and 
apologised for what it said was a system error.
Dissatisfied with this response, Ms I referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator explained that, when Mr Rs care home address had been provided in 
relation to a product he held with a business connected to Halifax, a batch update 
was applied so that his care home address was set as the contact address for this 
account as well. She acknowledged that correspondence had been sent to the wrong 
place for around five months. But she thought the £150 compensation Halifax had 
already paid for this was fair. As Ms I disagreed that it was sufficient, Ill decide how 
the complaint should be resolved.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Halifax made an error. It admits that it should have been 
sending the correspondence  which I understand comprised of five statements and 
a change to conditions letter  to Ms Is address. So the issue for me to consider is  
what impact did this have? Does the compensation it has already paid fairly reflect 
this?
In answering these questions, its important to explain that I can only consider the 
impact on Mr R directly. Thats because our service only has the power to make 
awards for distress and inconvenience suffered by the consumer. I cant make an 
award for the impact on the representative of a consumer. So although Ms I is 
authorised to represent Mr R  I cant consider the stress and worry she undoubtedly 
suffered due to the error when deciding if Halifax should pay more compensation.
Ms I has confirmed that Mr R didnt suffer financially. And Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that, for example, anyone else accessed Mr Rs information. I understand 
the letters were given to Ms I unopened when she visited him. Overall it seems Ms I, 
rather than Mr R, suffered due to the error. And I note that Halifax has paid Ms I  
who is authorised to act on Mr Rs behalf in relation to the account  £150 
compensation.
I also cant make a punitive award against Halifax for the breach itself. And whilst I
appreciate Ms Is frustrations and queries about how this occurred  I think the 
explanation passed on by the investigator offers reasonable insight into how this is 
likely to have happened. Unfortunately, businesses sometimes make mistakes. Our 
role is to ensure that, when they do, any loss the consumer suffers as a result is 
redressed. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms I, who I acknowledge has suffered distress and 
inconvenience as a result of Halifaxs error. But from what Ive seen, Mr R didnt lose 
out directly. I note that Halifax has also paid £150 compensation and updated the 
address. So Im minded to conclude that the complaint has already been fairly 
resolved.
I invited both sides to respond before I made my final decision. Halifax hasnt made any 
further comments. Ms I says shes disappointed in the outcome, and queries why we cant 
make awards for impact on a representative  but understands that we have to consider the 
case within our current guidelines. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
Whilst I understand Ms Is disappointment, and I agree that shes been caused upset by the 
error, its not in dispute that I cant consider her personal losses. This is because they didnt 
come about from her own customer relationship with Halifax, but from her fathers. And our 
remit here  in broad terms  is to redress loss (including non-financial loss) suffered by Mr I 
due to errors stemming from his customer relationship with Halifax. 
Based on what Ive seen, Mr R wasnt adversely affected by this issue. And Im conscious 
Halifax has already paid compensation and fixed the address error. So whilst I do empathise 
with Ms I  whose efforts have undoubtedly helped resolve the matter and ensure Mr R 
wasnt affected  Im not awarding more compensation or directing Halifax to take further 
action to resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021. 
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman