DRN-4407812
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about poor service and delays caused by Watford Insurance
Company Europe Limiteds (Watford) handling of their claim due to an escape of water from
a neighbours property, under their home buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr and Mrs R noticed water pooling on their shared driveway. Dampness
was also affecting the ground floor of their property. They contacted Watford to make a
claim. They say it took around a month before an assessor visited. The claim was accepted.
But there were further delays in arranging drying works and arranging for contents to be
stored. Suitable alternative accommodation (AA) wasnt offered, which delayed matters
further.
Mr and Mrs R moved in with their son when their home became uninhabitable. They say this
is because of inadequate efforts by Watford to arrange AA or provide a budget for Mr and
Mrs R to locate a suitable place to stay. Their home has yet to be repaired. They say this
has had a negative impact on both their physical and mental health.
Watford provided two complaint responses. The first in December 2022 the second in May
2023. It acknowledged some delays and service failings. Watford offered Mr and Mrs R £400
compensation in total, for these issues.
Mr and Mrs R didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our
investigator upheld their complaint. She identified delays in the handling of the claim that left
Mr and Mrs R living in damp conditions over the winter. She thought the standard of
communication had been poor, requiring regular chasing from Mr and Mrs R.
To put things right Our investigator says Watford should pay a further £400 compensation in
addition to the £400 it had already offered. She also says it should provide an update on Mr
and Mrs Rs claim, ensure work is completed in a timely manner, provide a point of contact,
and provide a settlement payment if Watford cant arrange completion of the repairs. Our
investigator says the disturbance allowance confirmed after the final complaint response
should be reviewed and a breakdown provided.
Watford agreed with our investigators outcome. Mr and Mrs R didnt. They say the
compensation offered is too low given the impact Watfords claim handling had on them.
They asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My intention is to uphold this complaint. Im not adding to the compensation our investigator
thought was reasonable. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R, but Ill explain why I think my
decision is fair. As my findings differ in part to our investigators, I want to give both parties
the opportunity to consider what Ive said, before I issue my final decision.
Mr and Mrs R reported a leak on 18 October 2022. They submitted a complaint later in the
year. Watford responded to this on 9 December.
Mr and Mrs R made a further complaint. Watford sent its final response dated 3 May 2023.
Under the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) dispute resolution, or DISP, rules, our service
cant consider a complaint unless its first been raised with the business. This means my
decision here will focus on Watfords handling of Mr and Mrs Rs claim up to 3 May.
From the claim records I can see instructions were given by Watford on the day of the claim,
to allow a contractor to carry out trace and access work. This was to find out where the
water leak originated from. A note eight days later says the contractor wanted to do an
inspection involving tracer gas. However, this wasnt authorised by Watford. A report was
provided by the contractor.
I can see that this report and progress of the claim was chased by Mrs R several times in
October 2022. On 7 November the contractor emailed Watford to say the leak was either on
the incoming pipe or the domestic cold pipework. It recommended a tracer gas investigation.
Watford authorised this shortly after receiving the contractors email.
I can see that Watford appointed a loss adjustor to oversee Mr and Mrs Rs claim. This was
on 16 November 2022. The following day the contractor due to carry out the tracer gas
investigation advised the stop-tap had to be replaced before this could be done. On 19
November Mrs R called Watford to say the electrics had tripped for the entire house. She
queried why an electrician had yet to visit to inspect the electrics. Despite this having been
agreed by Watfords agents.
The loss adjustor (LA) visited Mr and Mrs Rs property on 22 November 2022. At the same
time the trace and access contractor re-attended. The loss adjustor comments that the
source of the leak is still under investigation. But he referred to two possible causes for the
presence of the water. The first was a possible leak from a lead pipe. The second was an
increase in water levels beneath the property during periods of significant rainfall. The LA
noted Mrs R had explained this was due to an inadequate or ineffective soakaway.
On 5 December 2022 the claim records refer to the leak originating from the neighbouring
property. I note this differs from Mrs Rs recollection of events. She says this was known on
22 November when the LA and contractor had visited. Mrs R says her neighbour was
informed and contacted his insurer. She says the leak, on the neighbours property, was
identified and fixed on 19 December. A record made four days after this, says the source of
the leak was a concealed pipe beneath the neighbours kitchen floor.
Based on this evidence the contractor appointed to find the leak couldve found this quicker.
This was dependent on Watford authorising the tests it recommended. I havent seen a
reasonable explanation why this couldnt have been agreed at the time of the contractors
first request in October. This delay added around a month to the claim.
Toward the end of December 2022, the claim records confirm the defective soakaway issue
was to be addressed before drying work commences. An estimate was requested from a
drying contractor. I can see a drying contractor was appointed on 9 January 2023.
Mrs R says she struggled to get in contact with the LA in January 2023. She was laterinformed the LA had been ill and the claim had been assigned to a different LA. She says AA
was discussed later in January, as well as a contractor to remove and store her belongings
whilst strip-out and drying works commenced.
Mrs R says her furniture was removed on 31 January 2023. And the drying contactor
removed flooring and skirting, as well as creating holes to aid the drying process. A claim
note from 7 February gives an estimated drying time of four weeks, with the caveat that the
wall plaster will need monitoring. The notes says if it fails to dry further strip-out work will be
required.
In mid-February 2023 it was identified that the property needed further strip-out works to aid
the drying process. The claim notes say some additional contents from the property will need
to be removed. However, Mrs R didnt want more strip-out work to be completed whilst her
and her husband were living there. From the claim notes and Mrs Rs submissions, the
possibility for AA was discussed. The records say this would be sorted out first, prior to any
further strip-out works commencing.
A record dated 23 March states Watford will approve AA for an initial 60 days. Subsequently
this was increased to 90 days after a discussion with Mrs R. The records indicate the call
became heated and had to be ended. I note from her submissions to our office, that Mrs R
says there had been a gap of around five weeks with no response from Watford around this
time. This was despite her sending numerous emails. According to the claim notes Watfords
agent told Mrs R that shed been using an incorrect email address, and that her messages
hadnt been seen.
From around the end of March 2023 and into April, the claim notes refer to efforts to find
suitable accommodation for Mr and Mrs R. I note Mrs Rs comments that no suitable
accommodation was found. Although the records say several suggestions were offered. I
can see a payment of £800 per month was subsequently offered if Mr and Mrs R should
wish to stay with friends or family.
Mr and Mrs R confirm that they moved out of their property to stay with their son on 21 April
2023. At this time, they asked that their son and his personal assistant be the main point of
contact for any further issues relating to their claim.
I can see a concern was raised on Mr and Mrs Rs behalf on 26 April 2023 that the
dehumidifiers Watford had in place had begun leaking around four weeks previously. Their
representative advised the property wasnt therefore being dried and hadnt been for around
four weeks.
The claim records indicate one humidifier was leaking. But this hadnt affected the process of
drying the fabric of the building. Watfords agent recorded that the drying regime was to be
reassessed once the further strip-out works were completed.
On 26 April 2023 Watford emailed Mr and Mrs Rs representative. In its email it said that AA
had been offered but rejected by Mrs R. Mrs R had asked if it would pay a disturbance
allowance if they moved in with friends or family. Watford says it confirmed its offer of £800
per month in response. In its email Watford says its contractor had been instructed to make
contact to arrange for the remaining strip-out works. After this is done it says it will arrange
for additional drying equipment to be installed and an estimate for when this will be
completed.
Watford issued its final complaint response around a week later. In this it refers to its earlier
complaint response from 9 December 2022 where it offered £150 compensation. This was
for the delay in authorising the leak detection test and some additional service failings. In itsfinal complaint letter in May, it says it has identified further delays in the progression of the
claim. In part this was caused by the need to appoint a new LA. It says the strip-out works
had provisionally been booked in for 9 May. It offered a further compensation payment for
£250 in light of the poor service Mr and Mrs R had received.
Some disruption and inconvenience is largely unavoidable in situations such as this. But we
do expect an insurer to handle claims effectively to avoid causing unnecessary delays and
inconvenience. Having considered all of this, I dont think Watford handled Mr and Mrs Rs
claim effectively.
I say this because the location of the leak, on the neighbours side, could reasonably have
been identified more quickly, had Watford provided authorisation for the trace gas test in
October 2022. It took too long to do this which added several weeks onto the claim. There
then followed around a month before the neighbour was able to identify and stop the leak.
The drying contractor started the drying process at the end of January 2023. This was six
weeks after the leak had been fixed. Ive not seen a satisfactory explanation why this
couldnt have happened sooner.
The drying process wasnt effective requiring further strip out works. Mr and Mrs R didnt
want to be in the property whilst this was done. I can understand why, given their reference
to the damp and disruption caused to their property. Mrs R explains that she had a recent
surgery, and this was impacting on her recovery. Similarly, her husband has a chronic lung
disease, this meant the humidity had a negative impact on him as well. Mrs R also highlights
the impact the ongoing disruption and living conditions had on their mental wellbeing.
AA was offered, albeit the solutions proposed werent suitable. From the claim records,
options were initially provided in a timely manner. Although communication was at times
lacking, which I note Watford doesnt dispute. I understand Mrs R doesnt agree that suitable
efforts were made to assist with AA. I cant see that the policy terms provide any detail on
how Watford will source AA or what accommodation will be considered. Other than to say
suitable accommodation will be provided up to 20% of the buildings sum insured.
As it is, Mr and Mrs R decided to move into their sons property on 21 April 2023. Watford
has confirmed strip out works were then due to commence on 9 May. Im not aware if the
work started on this date, allowing the drying process to continue. But, as explained, my
consideration of this complaint ends on 3 May, when the final complaint response was
issued.
From the first notification of loss to the point where the second set of strip-out works were
yet to be completed, is around seven months. The property had yet to dry, and restoration
works were far from being started. I dont think this represents reasonable progress on Mr
and Mrs Rs claim. To acknowledge the impact all of this had on them, I think a
compensation payment is appropriate. Considering their health conditions, age, and the poor
service provided, I agree with our investigator that £800 in total is a fair payment.
I cant comment on the claim after 3 May 2023. Mr and Mrs R can make a further complaint
if they arent happy with how its been handled post this point. If they remain dissatisfied they
can then refer the matter to our service.
Watford should ensure that all claims it receives are handled effectively and in line with its
policy terms and conditions. This is what its required to do in Mr and Mrs Rs claim. I wont
repeat the requirements our investigator included in her view for how the claim should be
handled post Watfords final complaint response. Any issues with the subsequent handling of
the claim will need to be raised as a further complaint and considered separately.I said I was intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and Watford should pay them 
£800 compensation, in total, for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Watford responded to say that it accepted the findings I set out in my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs R responded on 27 September 2023 to say they paid a £500 policy excess fee 
to Watford that needs refunding. They say this is because the leak was thought to originate 
on their property but later was found to have come from their neighbours property. 
Mr and Mrs R say Watford has yet to pay the disturbance allowance or electricity charges it 
agreed to pay. If these payments are made they say that, although somewhat low, they 
accept the compensation payment for £800. 
Mr and Mrs R emailed our service again in October 2023. They say they want to point out 
discrepancies in my provisional decision. They say no guarantees or drying certificates for 
the repair work has been provided by Watford. In addition, the renewal of their insurance 
policy has been cancelled without any discussion. 
Mr and Mrs R say they replied to Watfords emails. So, its incorrect to say they were using a 
wrong email address. They say only one suggestion was made for alternative 
accommodation  not several as Watford had said. They also say they didnt decide to stay 
with their son, they had no choice as this was their only option. 
Mr and Mrs R explain how Watfords handling of their claim has caused an untold amount of 
stress affecting their mental and physical health. In addition, they say it is still withholding 
payments. For these reasons they say they cant accept £800 compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Rs comments regarding the excess fee they paid for their 
claim. I accept that the source of the water leak changed. This was initially thought to be on 
their property. Later it was identified that the source of the leak was on their neighbours 
property. I can see from their Policy Certificate that an excess fee of £500 is applicable in 
the event of a claim for an escape of water. Ive also read Mr and Mrs Rs policy terms and 
conditions. The terms say:
Excess - The first part of the claim for which you are responsible (your excess can be found 
on your Policy Certificate).
Based on this information Mr and Mrs R are responsible for paying the first £500 of their 
claim. Watford has indemnified Mr and Mrs R for their loss, under their policy. I think this 
reasonably means that the policy excess is payable.   
I can see that Watford agreed to a disturbance allowance whilst Mr and Mrs R were staying 
with their son. This was for the period 21 April to 21 June 2023. In my provisional decision I 
explained I can only consider Mr and Mrs Rs complaint up to the point they received 
Watfords final complaint response, which was sent in early May. 
Watford should settle any agreement it made to pay a disturbance allowance. It should also cover the electricity charges incurred by the drying works. But as of 3 May 2023, the repairs 
were ongoing, and Mr and Mrs R were still residing with their son. The lack of payment for 
these issues didnt form part of their complaint at this time. They can of course raise a 
complaint with Watford about the claim period following its response in May. I understand 
this is what they intend to do. If Mr and Mrs R remain dissatisfied with Watfords response 
they can then ask our service to consider the matter.   
Ive read the correspondence exchanged between Mr and Mrs R and Watford. I cant see 
that they complained about the lack of a drying certificate or guarantees for the repair work. 
But again, the repairs were ongoing at the time of Watfords complaint response in May. I 
think its reasonable to expect any information regarding guarantees would be provided on 
completion of the work. As discussed Mr and Mrs M can raise this with Watford as a 
complaint. But I cant consider it in my decision here.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Rs comments that they responded correctly to Watfords emails, 
not to an incorrect address as it suggested. In addition to their comments that the business 
only made one suggestion for accommodation. I acknowledge what they say about having 
no choice but to stay with their son. 
Im sorry Mr and Mrs R were upset and caused inconvenience as a result of Watfords 
handling of their claim. But I think £800, for the issues experienced up to its final complaint 
response on 3 May 2023, represents fair compensation.
Having carefully considered Mr and Mrs Rs comments, although Im sorry they remain 
dissatisfied, Im not persuaded that a change to my provisional findings is warranted.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited should:
pay Mr and Mrs R £800 compensation, in total, for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman