DRN-1622194
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank plc mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Mr W in 1999. The policy 
provided Mr W with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
Mr W says HSBC put him under pressure to buy the PPI and that he wasnt given a proper 
choice. He says HSBC told him he wouldnt get the mortgage he wanted if he didnt buy the 
PPI. 
HSBC hasnt provided much information from the point of sale, as these events occurred 
over 20 years ago. This isnt surprising and its similar to some other cases Ive seen.
Ive noted everything Mr W has said. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was 
discussed between Mr W and HSBC when the mortgage was arranged.
But for me to decide that the adviser didnt tell him the PPI was an optional policy, Id have to 
be sure that this was more likely than not.
This is difficult given the lack of paperwork we have. But I cant see that there is anything in 
the mortgage application or the PPI application to suggest that buying the cover was a 
condition of getting the loan. Im also mindful that the policy was free for the first six months.
So without any additional evidence to support what Mr W has told me, it seems to me that it 
couldve been just as likely that he knew the policy was optional and chose to take it out. 
Overall,  I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say that HSBC didnt make him aware he had 
a choice about buying the PPI. HSBC says it doesnt know if it recommended the policy to Mr W. If the bank had given 
advice, it would have had to make sure the policy was suitable for him. But I dont need to 
make a finding on this point because, even if I held HSBC to the higher standard and said it 
did give advice, I dont think the policy was unsuitable based on what Ive seen of Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time.
I say this because Mr W wasnt disadvantaged by any of the common limitations 
or conditions on the cover. It appears that Mr W was in good health and in employment 
when he applied for the policy. Also, his circumstances meant he was eligible for the policy.
Mr W says he cant remember what, if any, sick pay he was entitled to from his employer. 
But the policy would have paid out in addition to any occupational benefits Mr W was entitled 
to. Having the policy in place would mean Mr W could use any work-related benefits to pay 
for other expenses. So I think the PPI wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr W if things 
went wrong. 
It doesnt appear that the cost of the policy wouldve been unaffordable once the free period 
had ended. The monthly premiums were reasonable and were similar to the cost of other 
mortgage PPI policies sold around the same time.
It might be that HSBC could have explained the policy more clearly. But from what Ive seen 
of the policy and Mr Ws circumstances, I dont think better information would have changed 
his decision to take out the cover.
Overall, Im not persuaded there are any reasonable grounds on which to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman