DRN-4051609
The complaint
The complaint is about a number of put options Mr and Mrs G held on their account with 
Saxo Capital Markets UK Ltd (Saxo), which were bought back by Saxo before their expiry. 
Saxo says this was because there was insufficient margin available on Mr G and Mrs Gs 
account. Mr G (who is representing him and Mrs G in this complaint) says there was 
sufficient money in the account and Saxo made a mistake by buying back the options before 
their expiry - the options should instead have been exercised at their expiry, and the shares 
they related to acquired
Background
Mr and Mrs G held a trading account with Saxo. At the time of the event subject to complaint 
they held two shareholdings in that account (long positions), and a number of put options 
(short positions). Those put options were due to expire on 20 March 2020, at which point 
they would automatically have been exercised. They were however closed out by Saxo 
before they expired (I understand they were closed at 15:52 and due to expire at 16:00). 
Saxo says the options were closed out because Mr and Mrs G did not have sufficient margin 
(equity) available in their account. Saxo says the margin required was £287,320.55 and the 
margin available on Mr and Mrs Gs account was £287,212.41. Mr G says those numbers 
are wrong - that he and Mrs G had more than £287,212.41 margin available. This is the key 
point of dispute - Mr and Mrs G feel they did have sufficient margin, and that Saxo made a 
mistake. 
There has been a lot of correspondence exchanged between Mr G and Saxo on this point, 
and both have made detailed submissions to this service. I do not think it is necessary to set 
out what has been said in detail here  but I will set out a brief summary, and I confirm I 
have carefully considered it all. 
In brief Saxo has set out in detail how the margin available was calculated. Mr G does not 
accept these calculations and has provided his own, and has referred to screen shots of his 
and Mrs Gs Saxo account in support of his calculations.  
Mr G says there was £287,215.37 cash available on his and Mrs Gs account before he 
made a £25,000 payment to his and Mrs Gs account at around 13:43 on 20 March 2020  
(Saxo says this was an addition of £24,973.10 to his account, after a charge was deducted  
a point Mr G now disputes). So he had £312,188.47 in total after the extra money was 
added. He thinks that means he and Mrs G had sufficient margin available, and Saxo was 
therefore wrong to close out the options. Mr G had also referred to a phone conversation he 
had with Saxo before he made that payment, in which he says he was led to believe he only 
needed to add a small amount to the account to ensure there was sufficient margin. 
Saxo agrees £312,188.47 was the cash available on Mr and Mrs Gs account at the time. 
But it says that was not the amount available for margin - the net equity for margin (NEFM) is 
a different figure. Saxo says the £312,188.47 cash available figure included things which 
could not be taken into account when considering what the NEFM was, and so the NEFM 
was a lower sum (the £287,212.41 mentioned above). 
Our investigators view 
Our investigator considered the available evidence and concluded Saxo had not applied the 
£25,000 Mr and Mrs G had transferred to it on 20 March 2020 to their account before the 
options were closed out. And so he thought there had been an error, as there would have 
been sufficient margin if the £25,000 had been applied to Mr and Mrs Gs account. 
Saxo did not accept this view. It said, in summary: 
It had provided evidence to show that the £25,000 deposit was applied to the account 
prior to the close out (it provided further evidence on this point with its response).
Notwithstanding this, there does not appear to have been proper consideration of the 
fundamental fact that even with the £25,000 deposit, Mr and Mrs G were still £108.14 
short of the margin requirements for the acquisition of the underlying assets at expiry, 
and it is this shortfall that led to the close out.
Mr and Mrs G could well have been in a worse financial position if had had not closed 
them out when it did.
I note, in his response to my provisional decision, Mr G has made a number of comments on 
the above summary. To be clear, this is only intended to be a summary of what Saxo said in 
its response to the investigator. I am not, at this point, making any findings  only relaying, in 
summary form, what Saxo said. 
Mr G did not accept the investigators view on how matters should be put right. Mr G said he 
and Mrs G should be compensated by having the debits taken from their account on 20 
March 2020 when the close outs happened reversed, being given all the shares they would 
have received had the options been held to expiry (in return for the payments that would 
have been due from them at the time) and any dividend income they would have received as 
holders of these shares in the period since. 
The complaint was then referred to me for consideration.  I asked Saxo for some further 
information about how the NEFM was calculated, the information available to Mr and Mrs G 
when they looked at their account online, and its comments on the phone conversation Mr G 
had with it on 20 March 2020. My request and the response received was shared with Mr 
and Mrs G when I made my provisional decision on this complaint.
My provisional decision
Rather than summarise my provisional findings, I have quoted them in full below: 
The dispute is essentially about whether Mr and Mrs Gs put options should have been 
closed out when they were. In my view, to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, there are therefore two key things to consider  if Saxos calculation of the 
margin available on Mr and Mrs Gs account was correct, and (if so) if Mr and Mrs G should 
reasonably have known what the margin requirement was?
To help me consider this, I asked Saxo for some further information about the calculation of 
the NEFM, what information was available to Mr and Mrs G, and its comments on the 
recording of the phone conversation which took place between Mr G and its representative 
on 20 March 2020. I also shared Mr Gs latest submission to us with Saxo. 
In its response Saxo has provided full copies of its calculation of the NEFM, example screen 
prints of online accounts, which show how the cash, account value and margin details are displayed and its comments on the phone conversation Mr G had with it. 
I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs G but, having considered this alongside all the other 
available evidence, I am not persuaded Saxo has done anything significantly wrong here. In 
my view it has provided sufficient evidence to show the NEFM was correctly calculated and 
(although I think its representative could have been clearer when Mr G called Saxo) that, 
overall, sufficient information was available to Mr and Mrs G to allow them to understand 
how much margin was available (and therefore whether there was enough in their account to 
ensure the options were not closed out before their expiry) and sufficient steps were taken to 
put them on notice of the need to monitor their account as the option expiry time 
approached, and that their positions may be closed if there was insufficient margin. 
In my view the option close outs happened not because of a mistake by Saxo but because 
Mr and Mrs G did not fully understand how the NEFM was calculated or because they did 
not monitor their account as the option expiry time approached; or because of a combination 
of these two things. 
I am satisfied the £25,000 sent to Mr and Mrs Gs account at around 13:43 on 20 March was 
applied to the account by Saxo shortly after it was sent  and certainly before the close outs 
happened. So I do not think the close outs were a result of Saxos failure to apply that 
payment to the account. And I note Saxo and Mr G do now appear to agree on the amount 
of cash (£312,188.47) which was available. 
I am also satisfied the calculations Saxo has provided are clear evidence of the basis on 
which the NEFM was calculated and, in my view, they offer a clear explanation of how the 
relevant figure was arrived at in this case. The calculations set out what was factored into 
the cash available figure and what was factored into the NEFM figure and, by doing so, 
explain why the latter was lower than the former. So there is not, in my view, sufficient 
evidence to show the £287,212.41 NEFM was incorrectly calculated. 
The recording of Mr Gs call to Saxo suggests Mr G understood the amount available for 
margin (before he added anything) was £287,215. Although Saxos representative did not 
confirm that to be the case (nor did he confirm Mr Gs calculation of how much additional 
money he needed was correct or that his proposed additional payment to the account would 
be sufficient) I think he could have been clearer in what he said, and have referred Mr G to 
the online account platform. However, the representative did take some steps to warn Mr G 
that he and Mrs G may not have enough margin, to make them aware the margin 
requirement would increase as the expiry approached. I note, for example, he said: 
I would definitely add funds on the account, erm, because it wont take into the cost, er, 
commission fees as well
if you dont have enough funds in the account it will just start buying back your puts
you would need to have the funds in the account. ..in order tobecause if you dont it will 
do a kind of calculation  youll see the margin increase just before expiry and in doing so 
you just need to make sure youve got the funds in the account
It was ultimately the responsibility of Mr and Mrs G to monitor their account as the option 
expiry time approached, to make sure they did have a NEFM which was sufficient to ensure 
they were not closed out. I do not think they could reasonably have assumed, following Mr 
Gs phone conversation with Saxo, that they were only a small amount short and the 
proposed additional payment (£5,000) would definitely ensure there was sufficient NEFM. 
And, as Mr G then decided to pay a much larger sum to the account (£25,000), it may well 
be the case they did not make that assumption, in any event. I think the screen prints of the information that would have been available on Saxos online 
platform show that Mr and Mrs G would have easily been able to access clear information 
about their margin position, as the option expiry time approached. The NEFM is clearly 
shown as a separate figure to the cash available on the account. So, had they looked at their 
account at that time, I think it likely it would have been clear that what they now say they 
understood was the amount available for margin was not the NEFM (i.e. the amount being 
used by Saxo to asses if there was sufficient margin). 
I also note Saxo sent a number of emails to Mr and Mrs G to warn them, as the margin 
requirements increased (and, consequentially, the percentage of their NEFM being used 
increased). The emails sent when the requirements had reached 75% and then 90% of the 
NEFM included the following:
Please be advised that you are now utilizing 75.0% of your available margin for trading 
purposes. Please note that if your Margin Utilisation exceeds 100%, Saxo Capital Markets 
UK Limited in accordance with its General Business Terms has the right to close out all open 
margined orders and positions. Please ensure that you maintain your margin utilisation 
below 100% to avoid any compulsory close-out by depositing additional funds or reducing 
the margin exposure on your account. Please be reminded that it is your responsibility to 
monitor your account at all times
So Mr and Mrs G were put on notice of the increasing call on the NEFM, what would happen 
if it went over 100%, and their responsibility to monitor their account at all times as the expiry 
time approached. I also note (as Mr G has in his submissions on this complaint) that the 
margin slide in which occurred as the expiry time of the options approached was clearly set 
out in detail on Saxos website. 
When all this is considered in conjunction with the call I think it is fair and reasonable to say 
Mr and Mrs G were on notice of the need to monitor their account and had sufficient 
information available to them to allow them to work out whether they had sufficient NEFM or 
needed to add more money, and to understand all their open positions may be closed if the 
call on the NEFM exceeded 100%. 
So I do not think it would be fair to now ask Saxo to do anything in relation to the closed out 
options. However, as mentioned, I do think Saxos representative could have been clearer 
when Mr G called Saxo. And, at the earlier stages of the dispute Saxo could also have made 
it clearer that although the £25,000 was not booked at the time of the close outs and does 
not show on the account statement until the end of the day (i.e. after the close outs had 
occurred) it had nonetheless been applied to Mr and Mrs Gs account shortly after it was 
sent, and was taken account of when the NEFM was calculated. So I think some 
compensation for trouble and upset would be fair. Saxo has offered £250  an amount I think 
is fair, in the circumstances. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Saxo did not make any further submissions, following my provisional decision. 
Mr G did not accept my provisional decision. I have considered all he said. But I have only 
set out below a brief summary of what I consider to be the key points he made: 
He has never talked about margin  the account was always fully cash funded, and 
the put options which had been sold were fully cash secured. 
They clearly had ample funds in the account. They had £312,215.37 cash and only 
£289,100 was needed to acquire the underlying shares. The account statement shows the full £25,000 paid on 20 March 2020 was credited 
to the account. No deduction was made. 
There was no basis for Saxo to make any deduction from the £312,215.37 to arrive 
at the NEFM figure of £287,212.41.
A Saxo article from April 2020 (of which Mr G has provided a copy) is clear that if you 
have sufficient cash at option expiry you will be assigned shares at the strike price 
and the position would only be closed out if there was not sufficient cash. This makes 
it clear all that matters is the cash, not margin. 
Once he knew the £25,000 had been added to the account he was satisfied they had 
considerably more than was needed in the account, and he concluded there was 
nothing further to be done. This was a reasonable assumption to make, as £289,100 
was the absolute maximum needed  the strike prices were fixed - and there was 
more than this in the account. 
The fact they were closed out at 15:52 proves the £25,000 had not been applied to 
the account because, if it had, £312,215.37 would have been available and they 
would not have been closed out. 
He is concerned I have used the terms cash and margin as if they are exactly the 
same, when they are not. 
Mr G also said I should ask a number of questions of Saxo.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a preliminary point I think its important for me to highlight to Mr G that we are an informal 
dispute resolution service. My role is to decide  on an informal basis  what I think is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. And the purpose of this decision  and my provisional 
decision  is to set out my reasons for arriving at my decision  not to respond to everything 
which has been said by both parties. So here I have focussed on what I think is key. 
As a further preliminary point I have noted, and considered, Mr Gs request that I ask various 
questions of Saxo. However, I am satisfied Saxo has set its position out clearly and provided 
enough information for me to make a decision. It has set out in detail how it arrived at the 
conclusion the positions held on Mr and Mrs Gs account should be closed. And I do not 
think the fact Mr G does not accept what Saxo says is reason, in itself, for me to ask it to 
reply to further questions. 
I know this will disappoint Mr G but, having carefully reconsidered everything, I have not 
been persuaded to depart from my provisional findings. And those findings, quoted in full 
above, should therefore be considered to form part of my final decision. 
Turning to the recent submission made by Mr G, I am not persuaded he has said anything 
substantively new. His submissions largely repeat what he has previously said. I will 
however comment on what I consider to be the key points he has made. 
Firstly, on the £25,000 payment to his and Mrs Gs account at around 13:43 on 20 March 
2020, I remain satisfied this was applied to the account by Saxo shortly after it was sent  
and certainly before the closure of the positions happened. The available evidence clearly shows this sum was factored into the calculations Saxo made to work out the NEFM amount.  
I note Mr G disputes whether a £26.90 charge was applied, following the payment, but, 
whether this charge was applied or not, there was not sufficient NEFM available if Saxos 
calculations were otherwise correct. 
Pausing there, what Saxo describes as the NEFM was the amount of money in Mr and Mrs 
Gs account which it considered needed to be available for the positions to be held until the 
options they related to expired. And it is the NEFM which is key here. Saxos NEFM 
requirements were what Mr and Mrs G were obliged to meet. 
Moving on to the NEFM sum used, it is clear from the available evidence Saxo did not 
consider the NEFM simply be the cash available sum. Mr and Mrs G sold put options  
they took a short position. To close that position the options would need to be bought back. 
And that may entail a cost (i.e. the premium payable to buy the options), depending on how 
the market moved in the meantime. In this case Saxos systems reserved money to cover 
that cost (i.e. the premium payable buy back the options), just as they added money to the 
cash available to reflect the premium paid to Mr and Mrs G when they sold the put Options. 
That premium, less a closure cost i.e. a total sum of £24,927.34, was deducted from the 
cash available when calculating the NEFM. 
Mr G has seen this calculation, and commented on it. I have considered his comments and, 
having done so, it seems to me Mr G simply does not agree with what Saxo takes into 
account when calculating the NEFM, rather than being of the view the calculation is wrong, 
per se. He thinks the £24,927.34 should be disregarded, or reversed. 
However, that is essentially saying he does not accept the basis on which Saxo operates its 
platform. Saxo required sufficient money to cover a NEFM which took account of the cost to 
buy the underlying shares at the option expiry and the cost of buying back the options to 
close the positions i.e. the cumulative total of these amounts. Mr and Mrs G need to have 
money to cover the short positions and money to acquire the underlying shares they were 
obliged to acquire if they held the positions until the underlying options expired. That is the 
basis on which it operated its platform. 
Mr Gs view is the cost to buy back and cost to buy the underlying shares are mutually 
exclusive  so he does not need to cover both simultaneously. However, as I have set out, 
that is not how Saxo operated its platform. 
I have not seen sufficient evidence to show Saxo led Mr and Mrs G to believe they only 
needed to have the cost of buying the underlying shares as the NEFM in circumstances 
where they had sold a put option. 
I appreciate Mr G has referred to an article from April 2020. However, as this seems to post-
date the events Im looking at here, I do not think Mr G can have relied on it. In any event, 
the article only refers to what is needed to acquire shares when an option expires  it does 
not refer to what is required to maintain a short position up the expiry time. 
During Mr Gs call with Saxo its representative does refer to the cost of buying back the 
options having to be covered over and above the cost of buying the shares:  
I would definitely add funds on the account.because it wont take into (account) the cost
Its a case of covering the costs to make sure that (the options being held to 
expiry)happens, basically
Mr G was also put on notice that the margin requirements would increase as the expiry time approached: 
you would need to have the funds in the account. ..in order tobecause if you dont it will 
do a kind of calculation  youll see the margin increase just before expiry and in doing so 
you just need to make sure youve got the funds in the account
And he was made aware the positions would be closed (i.e. the puts bought back) if there 
was not enough margin: 
if you dont have enough funds in the account it will just start buying back your puts
Mr Gs response implies that, after he had paid the £25,000 to the account neither he nor 
Mrs G monitored the account, as they assumed nothing else needed to be done. I remain of 
the view Mr and Mrs G could not reasonably have assumed they did not need to monitor 
their account after this time. What happened up to the expiry time was  insofar as the costs 
to close the positions was concerned  down to market movements. So they could not 
reasonably have assumed a fixed amount was certainly enough. 
I also remain of the view the NEFM would have been clearly displayed on Mr and Mrs Gs 
online account  so they would have been readily able to monitor it, to ensure it was 
sufficient. 
Overall, I remain of the view the option close outs happened not because of a mistake by 
Saxo but because Mr and Mrs G did not fully understand how the NEFM was calculated or 
because they did not monitor their account as the option expiry time approached; or because 
of a combination of these two things. 
I also remain of the view that Saxo could also have made things clearer at the early stages 
of the dispute. And that Saxos offer of £250 is fair compensation for this, in the 
circumstances. 
I know Mr G is very unlikely to accept this decision, and will be disappointed by it. But our 
work on this complaint is now at and end  so we will not be able to give any further 
consideration to it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited should pay Mr 
and Mrs G £250 for the trouble and upset caused, but does not need to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman