DRN-3427707
The complaint
Mr H complains that esure Insurance Limited hasnt settled his claim on his home insurance 
policy fairly.
What happened
Mr H claimed on his home insurance policy for damage caused by a water leak in his 
bathroom.
esure scoped out the repairs and said they would cost £4,192.96 (minus Mr Hs policy 
excess of £450). esure says this included drying works of £1,145.99. esure chose to cash 
settle Mr Hs claim and sent him a cheque for £2596.97 (having deducted his policy excess 
and the cost of drying out works from that settlement amount).
Mr H says this settlement amount doesnt reflect the cost to him of redecorating the parts of 
his home that were damaged by the leak. He says, following a request from esure, he got 
two quotes from trusted decorators  one was for £3,380 and the other was for £3,840. He 
wants esure to pay him the cost of the lower quote. esure says the costs Mr H is asking for 
are excessive.
So Mr H has brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at Mr Hs complaint 
upheld it. He thought that, because esure hadnt offered to complete the repair works itself, it 
should pay Mr H in line with the cheapest quote hed got of £3,380.
esure disagrees. So Mr Hs complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs policy sets out how esure can settle his claim. Broadly, it says esure can (among 
other things):
pay the cost of the work carried out to rebuild, replace or repair Mr Hs home; or
 
arrange for it to be rebuilt, replaced or repaired.
In essence, this means esure can choose the way in which it settles Mr Hs claim. This is a 
standard term in home insurance contracts and its one we think is fair and reasonable.
esure decided to settle Mr Hs claim by paying him in cash for the repairs, as it was entitled 
to do under his policy. But where  as here  an insurer only offers a cash settlement, our 
approach is to say its fair and reasonable the settlement should reflect the cost to the 
consumer of getting repairs done. Mr H got two quotes for the redecoration of his home (as I 
believe esure had requested him to do). And he accepted the lower of the two quotes. 
esure says the two quotes were excessive. But, apart from anecdotal evidence from a 
customer service executive about his personal experience of getting a similar sized area in 
his home redecorated, esure has given us no evidence to support its position.
So I think the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint is for esure to pay Mr H in line 
with the cheaper quote he got of £3,380. Its my understanding the settlement amount esure 
has already paid Mr H of £2596.97 included an amount for redecorating costs (which I think 
was around £1,038). If Im right about this, esure can deduct that amount from the payment 
due to Mr H. Mr H will need to give esure proof that hes paid the redecorating costs (so far, 
hes shown us the quote but not proof of payment).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct esure Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr H his redecorating costs in line with the quote he got of £3,380. esure can 
deduct from the amount it pays Mr H any sums its paid him for redecoration as part 
of its initial settlement of £2596.97 (I understand these are around £1,038); and
 
interest* at the rate of 8% a year simple on the amount esure Insurance Limited pays 
Mr H from the date he paid the redecoration costs to the date of settlement. But     
Mr H must give esure Insurance Limited proof of payment of these costs. 
*If esure Insurance Limited considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman