DRN-3739874
The complaint
This complaint is about Barclays Bank UK PLCs (Barclays) decision not to extend the term 
on Mr and Mrs Js buy-to-let mortgage. Mr and Mrs J say they were discriminated against 
because of their age.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J held an interest only buy-to-let mortgage with Barclays that was due to mature. 
They also had a premier bank account, so they discussed extending the term of the 
mortgage by one year with the Premier Banking team. At this time, they were told they could 
extend the term of the mortgage by 12 months. 
After looking into Mr and Mrs Js request, Barclays told Mr and Mrs J they were not eligible 
to extend the term on their mortgage and so it would not be able to grant an extension. One 
of the reasons given was that they were ineligible because of their ages. 
Mr and Mrs J say this is age discrimination and they want Barclays to overturn its decision.  
Barclays looked into Mr and Mrs J s concerns and apologised that they were given incorrect 
information by the Premier Banking team. But said Barclays couldnt change the decision not 
to extend the term of the mortgage as Mr and Mrs J did not satisfy its lending criteria. 
Barclays offered Mr and Mrs J £300 in compensation for the misinformation they received. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Js concerns, but they didnt think Barclays needed 
to do anything more to resolve the complaint. As Mr and Mrs J disagreed, the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Js complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, Id like to explain that the ombudsman service offers an informal dispute resolution 
service. While we take relevant law, regulation and good practice into account, we cant 
decide whether the Equality Act 2010 has been breached  only a court can decide that. 
My role is to establish whether Mr and Mrs J were treated fairly or not, and in doing so, I 
have taken into account the Equality Act. Specifically, the points relevant to age 
discrimination, which were added in 2012. At this time, age discrimination was made 
unlawful, so service providers cant; refuse to provide a service, provide it on different terms, 
or treat customers differently because of their age. But an exception was made for providers 
of financial services which allowed them to make decisions based on age, known as the 
financial services exemption. 
Mr and Mrs J were both over 80 years old at the time they wished to extend their mortgage. 
Barclays has provided some information about its lending criteria, and this does confirm that 
it is Barclays policy not to lend to customers who are 80 years old or over. I understand 
Barclays has completed a risk assessment to establish this and the policy has been updated 
since Mr and Mrs J applied for their original mortgage, which is why they previously qualified, 
but now, do not. 
So, Ive reviewed what Barclays has said and Im satisfied it can rely on the exemption in the 
Equality Act and use age as a factor in its decision making. Im also satisfied Barclays could 
use its commercial discretion to decide only to lend to customers up to age 80. Considering 
everything, Im satisfied Barclays didnt treat Mr and Mrs J unfairly due to their age.
I have also considered that Barclays initially gave Mr and Mrs J incorrect information when 
they were told they would be eligible to extend the term on their mortgage. Barclays accepts 
that this was an error on its own part, so I dont need to reach a finding on that. But Barclays 
has offered Mr and Mrs J £300 in compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused by 
this and I do need to consider if that amount is fair. 
Mr and Mrs J say they have spent a lot of time trying to resolve the matter and have received 
several phone calls to their landline. They say this has been particularly taxing on them due 
to ongoing health issues and so they believe the compensation offered should be 
significantly more.
While I empathize with Mr and Mrs J, I think there have been other factors contributing to the 
volume of calls theyve received. I say this because Barclays informed Mr and Mrs J that the 
information they were given was incorrect relatively quickly. It posed some ideas of what 
Mr and Mrs J could do instead. And it seems more likely than not, a number of the phone 
calls made after this relate to Mr and Mrs J not accepting the outcome Barclays reached. 
Mr and Mrs J have not repaid their mortgage even though the term has now expired, and I 
understand there have been some missed payments as well. Barclays was entitled to expect 
Mr and Mrs J to repay their mortgage when it matured and to meet their contractual monthly 
payments prior to this. As this didnt happen, Barclays will have had other reasons to contact 
them. 
So, while I appreciate Mr and Mrs J may have received a number of phone calls from 
Barclays, which they have found difficult  I think a number of those calls more likely than 
not relate to other factors  outside of this complaint. In terms of the misinformation Barclays 
provided, it has offered £300 to compensate Mr and Mrs J for that and I think its offer is fair 
in the circumstances. 
Im sorry for the situation Mr and Mrs J find themselves in. But considering everything, I dont 
think Barclays needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman