DRN-2374268
The complaint
Miss M says PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender  irresponsibly lent to her.
  
What happened
This complaint is about four short-term loans Mr Lender provided to Miss M between 
November 2013 and July 2014. A summary of Miss Ms borrowing history is below: 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 23/11/2013 29/11/2013 1 £200.00 £217.50
2 16/12/2013 30/01/2014 1 £150.00 £176.25
3 31/01/2014 30/06/2014 1 £700.00 £910.00
4 01/07/2014 30/09/2014 2 £700.00 £560.00
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint and thought that loans 3 and 4 should not 
have been given to Miss M as the repayment cost for loan 3 was a significant portion of her 
income. Mr Lender didnt agree to uphold loan 3 but did agree with the adjudicators 
assessment of loan 4.
The offer to uphold loan 4 only was put to Miss M but she didnt accept it.   
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint. Having done this, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint about loans 1 and 2 and Mr Lender has 
agreed to the adjudicators findings about loan 4. Miss M hasnt providing me with anything 
else to consider about loans 1 and 2, but she did make a comment about the level of redress 
Mr Lender was offering for loan 4. But as the complaint is still ongoing, the redress hasnt 
been finalised yet. But Miss M didnt give me any new information about the loan to think 
about. So, I wont be making any further findings on loans 1, 2 and 4. This leaves just loan 3 
to consider. 
Mr Lender says it carried out adequate checks on Miss M when she applied for loan 3. This 
included verifying her employment and income. It also says it carried out credit checks 
which didnt reveal anything of concern. However, I think if Mr Lender had properly 
considered the information it had about Miss Ms financial situation and the lending, I think it 
would have seen that Miss M was not able to sustainably repay this borrowing. 
I say this because Miss M was borrowing £700, which was due to be repaid in a one 
instalment plus interest. This meant that Miss M would be repaying around £910 from her 
monthly declared income of £1,700. The repayment represented a significant proportion of 
Miss Ms income and I think Mr Lender ought to have realised this and the potential for   
Miss M to struggle to make the repayment  especially as it needed to be repaid in just one 
payment. In addition, I can see that Miss M deferred making the full repayment six times, I 
think this further shows that Miss M struggled to sustainably make the repayments and the 
loan shouldnt have been given.  Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Miss M from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought 
to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So, Mr Lender should do the following:
refund all interest and charges Miss M paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 3 and 4 from Miss Ms credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
Im partially upholding Miss Ms complaint. PDL Finance Limited should put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman