DRN-2622468
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain Masthaven Bank Limited have incorrectly applied a fee to their 
bridging loan.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr and Mrs M applied for a bridging loan for a 12 month period. In the run up 
to their loan finishing, Masthaven wrote to Mr and Mrs M in May 2019 on two occasions. 
These letters said if they wanted to apply for an extension they should do so as soon as 
possible because it could take up to four weeks to review their application and decide. The 
loan ended in June 2019, and on 11 July 2019 Mr and Mrs M applied for an extension to 
their loan. They said they returned the paperwork on 14 July and think Masthaven are being 
disingenuous in saying they didnt receive it until 19 July. 
Mr and Mrs M said the terms of the loan say if its not redeemed by 28 June 2019 then a 
penalty fee of £985 will be applied, and if its not repaid by 28 July 2019, then an additional 
fee of £5,115.50 plus interest would be applied to the account. Mr and Mrs M complain that 
when they resubmitted their paperwork on 14 July, they were told itd take between 5-7 days, 
but actually they werent told about the decision until a letter dated 5 August was received by 
them on 7 August. They said they redeemed their loan on 4 September  within one month 
of the date of this letter. Mr and Mrs M say Masthaven deliberately delayed the decision past 
the 28 July 2019 date, so the fee of £5,115.50 plus interest would apply.
Masthaven replied and said Mr and Mrs Ms loan expired on 28 June 2019. They called up 
on 8 July to discuss the extension options, and again on 11 July 2019 to extend the loan and 
received the signed pack back from Mr and Mrs M on 19 July 2019. Mr and Mrs M asked 
when this extension would be granted, and were told 26 July 2019, but it wasnt approved 
until 31 July 2019. Masthaven didnt feel itd caused any unreasonable delays, so didnt 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Masthaven also said the fee of £5,115.50 was an 
extension fee theyd agreed to, not a penalty fee.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs M asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did 
so but felt ultimately Mr and Mrs M had agreed to pay this fee, and he didnt think Masthaven 
had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept this. They provided a number of responses, and Ive 
summarised their points below:
The fee is for extending the loan  but the loan wasnt extended so the fee shouldnt 
apply.
They submitted their application on 16 July but as this was only an application it 
wasnt a contract  and when they ticked the box to agree to the fee this was only if 
the extension proceeded, which it didnt.
Masthaven accepted the extension on 5 August 2019 as per their letter, but theyd 
shown they redeemed the loan by 4 September 2019. So, as per the application 
form which says the extension fee wont be paid if the loan is redeemed within a 
month, the fee isnt due.
Mr and Mrs M say they were told theyd get an answer about the extension by 26 
July 2019. But the extension letter wasnt sent until 5 August meaning the extension 
fee could then be applied. They believe the reason for the delay was so Masthaven 
could benefit from the fee.
Because of these issues, I was passed the complaint to decide.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. I explained that as the extension of 
the loan was taken out on an execution only basis Masthaven needed to provide clear, fair 
and not misleading information. I didnt think they did  and because of this I felt the letter 
dated 5 August 2019 was when the one month extension period started  not the end of the 
loan on 28 June 2019. And Mr and Mrs M, as well as Masthaven, said the loan was repaid 
on 4 September 2019  so I felt the fee of £5,115.50 plus interest should be refunded as the 
loan had been redeemed within a month of the extension period.
Mr and Mrs M accepted this decision  but Masthaven didnt. Amongst other things they said 
their paperwork was clear, fair and not misleading. They said normally borrowers would 
apply for an extension before their loan ended which is why they sent letters in May 2019 
saying it could take up to four weeks to consider any extension application  but Mr and 
Mrs M didnt apply for the extension until after the loan had ended. They also said the funds 
to redeem the loan werent received until 6 September 2019. They proved this by providing a 
copy of the email from Mr and Mrs Ms solicitor, dated 6 September 2019, saying theyd sent 
the money today. They said sorry for the mistake.
I reconsidered the complaint based on this and thought it unlikely Id now be upholding 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. The original basis on which I said the fee plus interest should be 
refunded was because the loan was redeemed within a month of the extension period  but 
thats now been proven to not be the case. We wrote to Mr and Mrs M, as well as 
Masthaven, to explain that  and asked both parties to provide any further comment they 
may wish to make before issuing my final decision.
Mr and Mrs M replied and said they didnt accept the reversal of my provisional decision. Ive 
summarised their comments:
Throughout the process dates have come and gone and there was confusion as to 
the process. Due to the uncertainty and inefficiency they chose to refinance 
elsewhere because they didnt want to be faced with a refusal.
They were initially told itd take 5-7 days to confirm the extension, but actually it took 
nearly four weeks. 
Mr and Mrs M say that delaying the letter until 5 August 2019 was deliberate to allow 
the fee to become due.
The letter of 5 August 2019 required the money to be repaid within one month, and 
they asked for the redemption figure but it wasnt provided until 5 September. Mr and 
Mrs M say they didnt know about the movement of the funds after 4 September and 
asked me to accept their apology as they didnt intentionally mean to mislead.
Mr and Mrs M summed up by saying my decision wasnt based on whether the funds were 
redeemed by 5 September 2019, but rather by the process. Because of all these issues, 
they felt Masthaven shouldnt be allowed to charge the fee.
Masthaven didnt provide any more information for me to consider before the deadline.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept neither party meant to provide incorrect information. Taking into account the 
responses Ive had, Ive gone back over the whole complaint to ensure Im reaching a fair 
answer.
Mr and Mrs Ms original loan ended on 28 June 2019 but hadnt been redeemed at this point. 
This generated an extension fee for the first month of £985, and then the fee of £5,115.50 
plus interest would be charged if the loan hadnt been redeemed within a month of the 
original loan ending. So, as far as Masthaven are concerned if the loan wasnt redeemed by 
28 July 2019 then the £5,115.50 fee plus interest wouldnt be refunded. Mr and Mrs M 
accepted the fee of £985 was fair, so Im only considering the fee of £5,115.50 plus interest. 
Mr and Mrs M have repeated their concerns that Masthaven have acted unfairly by the time 
theyve taken in confirming the extension to take them past 28 July 2019 date. But 
Masthaven confirming the extension before 28 July 2019 wasnt relevant to whether the fee 
would be refunded or not. The fee would only be refunded if the loan was redeemed within a 
month  28 July 2019 as far as Masthaven were concerned. So, as a result of Mr and Mrs M 
not having redeemed the loan within that time Masthaven wont refund it in accordance with 
their processes. 
I previously concluded that Masthavens paperwork wasnt clear, fair or not misleading. 
Because of this, I didnt think the end of the loan, 28 June 2019, was the appropriate date to 
calculate the one month extension period from. Instead, I felt the letter Masthaven sent out 
on 5 August 2019 confirming the extension had been granted was the appropriate date to 
start the one month period from. 
Masthaven have made a number of points in relation to me saying their paperwork wasnt 
clear, fair and not misleading  and its possible if I fully considered all of Masthavens points 
I might now agree with them. But, I no longer need to decide this.
I say that because it no longer has any bearing on this case. Ive now got evidence to 
demonstrate that Masthaven didnt receive the funds to redeem the loan until 
6 September 2019. So, even if I did conclude Masthavens paperwork wasnt clear, fair and 
not misleading (which Im not making a finding on), this would only give Mr and Mrs M until 
5 September 2019 to have redeemed the loan  and the funds to redeem the loan werent 
sent until the next day.
I do take Mr and Mrs Ms point that it took four weeks for Masthaven to confirm whether the 
extension had been granted  but this is in keeping with their letter sent in May 2019. So, I 
cant say Masthaven did anything wrong here.
I have noted Mr and Mrs Ms comments about the time it took Masthaven to provide the 
redemption statements  but Ive not seen anything to suggest Masthaven took longer than 
they should have. So I dont think this is the reason Mr and Mrs M didnt redeem in time to 
have the fee plus interest refunded.
And, while I accept Mr and Mrs M may have felt frustrated by some of the processes  
particularly Masthaven saying theyd get them an answer on 26 July 2019  I dont think this 
affects whether the fee is due.Mr and Mrs M have also said in their last reply there was some confusion with the dates and 
thats why they sought to refinance elsewhere as they didnt want to take the chance of 
being turned down for the extension. But Mr and Mrs M have also said they were looking at 
refinance options back in May which is why they didnt fully engage with Masthavens 
extension process at that time. So, I dont think this changes my thoughts on whether the fee 
has been applied correctly. 
Taking everything into account, Mr and Mrs M didnt redeem the loan in time for the fee to be 
refunded - so Im satisfied Masthaven have applied the fee plus interest fairly and wont be 
telling them to refund it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman