DRN-3878548
The complaint
Mr S complains about WDP Insurance Limited (WDP) who cancelled his policy following a 
claim under his gadget insurance.
What happened
Mr S contacted WDP to make a claim as his phone was stolen. Mr S was asked to complete 
a claims form, which he wasnt happy to do, as he said this caused him stress. He explained 
to WDP that he wasnt in the best of health, so this made things worse. 
WDP acknowledged Mr S vulnerabilities. But he complained about the way WDP handled 
his claim. Mr S said that there were delays, poor service and that he felt that WDP had 
discriminated against him. Mr S said this was because, although WDP accepted his claim 
and settled it in full, he felt the reason for it doing so was unfair. He said that WDP had told 
him that he hadnt a valid claim and that it cancelled his policy. He further explained that the 
reason WDP had paid the claim in full, was due to his ill health, which he felt was unfair. 
In its final response, WDP confirmed that it had cancelled Mr S policy. It confirmed that it 
didnt think his claim was valid. But accepted that it hadnt called Mr S back when it said it 
would and offered him £25 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Mr S wasnt 
happy with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said 
that WDP hadnt followed the policy terms and conditions, as one of the terms was that it 
had to give Mr S 30 days-notice of cancellation. She also felt that Mr S did have a valid claim 
regarding the theft of the phone, which was a peril listed within the policy. So, she 
recommended that WDP pay Mr S a further £175 (£200 in total) compensation for the errors 
that WDP made. 
Mr S accepted the view, WDP did not. It said that it had paid the claim in full due to Mr S 
vulnerabilities as it didnt want to extend the claim and put added stress on Mr S. It said as to 
the cancellation, it was entitled to cancel the policy as it wasnt economically viable for the 
policy to continue. 
It also pointed out the fact that Mr S had not only received an indemnity of the premium 
payments from his bank  in other words, he had received refunds of the premiums paid (a 
total of £28). But it had paid compensation for the poor service and paid the claim in full, plus 
Mr S had initiated court proceedings against them. It also pointed out that Mr S had told 
them that there was a disposal order in place. Which was an order where the person who 
stole the phone, would have to pay Mr S the monetary value of the phone. So, it asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman, as it felt it had been fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 24 November 2022 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 22 December 2022. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint, but for slightly different reasons to our 
investigator. I understand that this is likely to be a disappointment to Mr S, but I hope my 
provisional findings explain why I think this is fair. 
I note that Mr S has made a number of detailed points, which I have read and considered. I 
hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a discourtesy. As 
an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue. We are also tasked with 
looking at all the evidence from both parties impartially. 
Mr S held a gadget insurance policy with WDP. He made a claim following the theft of his 
phone. From the evidence presented to me, I think the main issues of this complaint are: 
whether WDP had made an error in concluding that the claim wasnt a valid one, whether 
WDP followed the policy terms and conditions relating to the 30 day cancellation notice. And 
finally, whether the £25 compensation offered for the errors was fair. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions to see what the obligations were for each 
party. Mr S said that he was made to feel discriminated against, as WDP told him that his 
claim wasnt a valid one. Under the terms of the policy, there are two options of cover, the 
damage only cover, and the full cover. The full protection contains cover for damage, theft 
and loss.  
Mr S said that his phone was stolen. He also provided some evidence from the police that 
supported this. And this information was forwarded to WDP. WDP said that the claim wasnt 
a valid one. But as WDP has given no reason why it said that the claim isnt valid. As theft is 
a peril that is covered under the policy and Mr S has said that the phone was stolen and 
provided some evidence in support, Im satisfied that the claim itself was a valid one. And I 
think that WDP were unfair to deem it as not a valid claim. 
I have next considered whether WDP followed the policy terms and conditions when it 
cancelled Mr S cover. It said that one of the reasons it cancelled Mr S insurance was 
because it had become uneconomic for it to continue to provide cover. And because of this, 
it cancelled Mr S policy. 
The policy provides different circumstances when WDP can cancel a policyholders policy. I 
think the relevant section of the policy says: We may cancel your policy if it is no longer 
economically viable to provide this product. WDP said that during the claims process it 
became uneconomically viable to continue to provide cover for Mr S and it was on this basis 
that it cancelled the policy. 
Whilst I accept that there was a condition of the policy that WDP could rely upon to cancel 
Mr S policy, there is a second condition that I think must be met. This condition relates to 
the notice period that WDP must give to Mr S, if it wishes to cancel the policy. If we cancel 
your policy or make any changeswell give you at least 30 days notice. In WDPs final response to Mr S complaint, it said; we are no longer able to provide you with cover and 
your insurance is now cancelled. 
It also said that it had verbally told Mr S before the issue of its final response, that it was 
cancelling his policy. Despite this, Im not satisfied that WDP had complied with the policy 
condition of giving Mr S at least 30 days notice. It hasnt provided me with evidence that 
shows that it followed this part of the policy term. And Mr S said that he wasnt given the 
requisite notice period. So, currently, Im satisfied that WDP didnt comply with the policy 
terms, when it chose to cancel Mr S cover without giving him the 30-day notice period.
WDP said that it offered Mr S £25 compensation for the error of failing to call him back. 
Whilst I think that this was fair, I dont think there was any compensation for the other errors. 
Those errors being that it said that the claim wasnt a valid one and it failed to give Mr S 30 
days-notice. So, I think its fair and reasonable that WDP recognise those errors. 
Im pleased to see that it had apologised for some of the poor service. It has also settled the 
claim in full. It said it did this, as it had taken into consideration Mr S personal vulnerabilities 
and that it didnt want to add further to Mr S stress, which I think is fair and reasonable. 
But I must consider what the impact these errors had on Mr S, to assess what is a fair and 
reasonable level of compensation. WDP said that it hadnt included the claim on the claims 
and underwriting exchange (CUE). It said that it had taken into consideration Mr S 
vulnerabilities and how the regulators advised how to deal with policyholders who are 
vulnerable. 
Mr S said that he felt upset, frustrated and discriminated against. He said that he wanted 
WDP to accept that the claim was valid and not just settle the claim due to his vulnerabilities. 
Our approach is, were there has been small errors that have caused some distress and the 
impact is minimal, an apology and a small monetary amount, is usually enough to remedy 
the errors.
I have taken into account that WDP settled the claim in full. I have also taken into account 
that WDP initially offered £25 and apologised. I have also taken into account that Mr S 
accepted that he had obtained a full indemnity of all the premiums paid on the policy which 
was £28, This meant that he has obtained both the benefit of the policy as well as a refund 
of the premiums he paid. In the circumstances, I think it is fair and reasonable that WDP pay 
further compensation of £50 (a total of £75) as this recognises the errors that WDP made 
during the claim process. 
Although I understand that this wont be the outcome that Mr S wouldve liked but, currently, 
I intend to direct WDP as indicated below.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S acknowledged that he had received my provisional decision. 
WDP commented as follows:
Mr S claim wasnt valid as its terms and conditions were unable to cover every single 
edge case possible. 
Mr S was being paid for the value of his stolen device and as Mr S didnt suffer a 
loss. Under general insurance law he is precluded from double recovery for the loss.
Mr S, was pestering and harassing our staff and company, making threats, and 
causing trouble  on a policy he voided by fraudulently claiming the premiums were taken from him the only error was one missed call-back. And for this error, the 
recommendation is to pay a total of £75 compensation. 
Mr S cant complain about the cancellation of a policy that he fraudulently voided 
himself by reclaiming the premiums from his bank.
It didnt rely on the terms and conditions to cancel the policy as the circumstances in 
which it gives 30 days-notice, didnt cover this cancellation. And it could cancel 
policies on the basis of a customers behaviour. It deemed Mr S a vexatious 
consumer and as such it had every right to cease its relationship with him.
I have carefully considered the comments made by WDP and although Ive taken into 
consideration the goodwill gesture that WDP made by settling Mr S claim in full. From the 
comments I think WDP have not been fair in their reasoning as to why the claim wasnt valid. 
From what WDP has said, it asserts that Mr S had been paid out twice for the theft of his 
phone. The first time via the legal/police route and in particular the disposal order. But Mr S 
provided evidence that he did not receive any payments via the disposal order. Further, 
WDP hasnt provided any information that shows that Mr S received any additional payment. 
And although it said that Mr S didnt suffer any loss, given that there is no evidence to show 
that he had received double recovery, I dont agree that Mr S didnt suffer any loss for the 
theft of his phone. 
WDP said that Mr S could not complain about a cancelled policy, when he voided his policy 
fraudulently by reclaiming the premiums paid to his bank. I have looked at the timeline 
regarding this. Briefly, WDP cancelled the policy on 28 February 2022. It wasnt until around 
a month later that Mr S reclaimed the premiums from his bank. 
I asked Mr S why he reclaimed the premiums and he said that this was because of the way 
the WDP had treated him during the claims process. What is of note is that it was WDP who 
cancelled his policy, before Mr S reclaimed the premiums from his bank. So, I dont agree 
that Mr S fraudulently claimed the premiums were taken from him. WDP has not previously 
raised this directly with Mr S. Nor did it use this (or fraud) as a basis of why it cancelled his 
policy.  So, I dont think its fair for it to rely on this as a reason now, why it cancelled Mr S 
policy. 
WDP accepted that it didnt rely on the policy terms and conditions for a reason why it 
cancelled the policy. And it said the circumstances hadnt arisen for the 30-day notice period 
to be triggered. I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions and it provides: If we cancel 
your policy or make a change that increases any charges or reduces your cover, well give 
you at least 30 days notice sent to the current contact details we have for you and you will 
be able to cancel your policy if you are not happy with our changes. 
As WDP has accepted that it didnt follow its own policy terms and conditions and didnt 
provide any evidence to show that it complied with this term, Im satisfied that it chose to 
cancel Mr S policy without the requisite notice period. I also note that there is no wording 
that indicates that there are certain circumstances when a notice period is disapplied. So, if 
WDP are now saying that the policy terms and conditions are incorrect, then it is up to it, to 
change or amend the policy to make this clear. Consequently, I dont think its reasonable for 
WDP to disapply the policy terms and conditions. 
Our approach is that when there have been errors that have caused a consumer minimal 
impact, which is what I think has happened here, we would think that an apology and small 
monetary award is appropriate. 
Taking all of this evidence into consideration, I think WDP did not comply with the policy 
terms and conditions, regarding the notice period. There was poor service during the claims process. And in its final response there was no mention of Mr S being vexatious or 
fraudulent, as a reason why it cancelled the policy. Because of those errors, I think it is fair 
and reasonable that WDP recognise the impact this caused on Mr S. To be fair to both 
parties, Im satisfied that WDP ought to increase its offer of compensation to a total of £75. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct WDP as below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
WDP Insurance Limited must pay Mr S a total of £75 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
WDP Insurance Limited must pay the above amount within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If WDP Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman