DRN-4071912
Complaint
Mr P complains that Retail Money Market Ltd (Ratesetter) unfairly brought about a hire-
purchase agreement with him. He says he was desperate and underdeclared his 
expenditure in order to be accepted for the finance. 
Background
In December 2017, Ratesetter operated the electronic platform in relation to lending which 
led to Mr P being provided with finance to purchase a used car. The cash price of the vehicle 
was £3,500.00. Mr P didnt pay a deposit and applied for a loan to cover the entire purchase 
price.  
The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £3,256.97 (comprising of interest of 
£3,256.96, and an option to purchase fee of 1p), and the total amount to be repaid of 
£6,756.97 was due to be repaid in 47 monthly instalments of £140.77 and a final 1 of 
£140.78. 
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that Ratesetter 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ps 
complaint should be upheld. Mr P disagreed with our adjudicator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ps complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Ratesetter needed to make sure that it didnt bring about Mr Ps agreement irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is that Ratesetter needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Mr P could make his payments in a sustainable manner before 
approving his loan. And if the checks Ratesetter carried out werent sufficient, I then need to 
consider what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a firms checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a firms checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information is gathered and what is done to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think a firm needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, 
the amount lent was high, or the information it had  such as a significantly impaired credit 
history  suggested the firm needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to 
repay what they were being lent. 
Ratesetter says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Mr P. During this assessment, Mr P provided details of his monthly income 
and this was cross referenced against information held by credit reference agencies. 
Ratesetter says it also carried out credit searches on Mr P.
Ive thought about what Mr P and Ratesetter have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our adjudicator, I dont think that the checks 
Ratesetter carried out did go far enough. Ratesetters searches showed that Mr P had had 
previous difficulties with credit. I can see he had previously defaulted on credit commitments 
and had more than one county court judgement against him  albeit these were historic. 
So, in my view, Ratesetter needed to take further steps to verify Mr Ps actual living costs, 
given what the credit search showed in order for its checks to have been proportionate. 
As Ratesetter didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think 
Ratesetter is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from Mr P. 
Bearing in mind, the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the monthly 
payment, I would have expected Ratesetter to have had a reasonable understanding about 
Mr Ps regular living expenses as well as his income and existing credit commitments. 
Ive considered the information Mr P has provided us with  including his bank statements. 
And having done so, this information does appear to show that when Mr Ps committed 
regular living expenses and existing credit commitments are deducted from his monthly 
income at the time, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the 
repayments due under this agreement. 
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Ratesetters 
checks before bringing about this hire purchase agreement for Mr P did go far enough, Im 
satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have prevented 
Ratesetter from bringing about this agreement for him. 
Ive also thought about what Mr P has said about Ratesetter failing to allow him to voluntary 
terminate his agreement. Having reviewed the notes on Mr Ps account, I can see that the 
subject of terminating agreement was discussed. 
Mr P appears to have been told that he could do this but thered be a shortfall to pay as he 
hadnt yet paid the amount (half the total amount due) needed to discharge his liability. 
Furthermore, the information Ive seen also suggests that Mr P refused to sign the 
termination documentation as he didnt agree with the amount due. So Im satisfied that Mr P 
was given the opportunity to voluntarily terminate his agreement but he chose not to 
exercise this at the respective time.
Overall Im therefore satisfied that Ratesetter didnt act unfairly towards Mr P in its dealings 
with him and Im therefore not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Mr P. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman