DRN-1422105
The complaint
Mr B complains that Think Insurance Services Limited gave him incomplete details when he 
took out a motor trader insurance policy through it. 
What happened
Mr B says he told Think he didnt want to pay in instalments. He paid a deposit and meant to 
pay the rest in a lump sum. But Think set up direct debit payments that he allowed to run. 
Later, Mr B found that hed been charged 20% interest that he said he wasnt told about at 
the point of sale. He said he also hadnt been informed of Thinks £75 set up charge. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint. He said although Think no longer had 
the call recording from the time the policy was set up, it had provided copies of the 
documents emailed to Mr B that day. The investigator said the £75 set-up charge and the 
finance charge (interest) were set out and Mr B didnt query them at the time. Mr B later said 
he hadnt received anything from Think and wanted his complaint to be taken further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says his intention was to pay for the policy in full, yet he paid a deposit and allowed 
Think to set up a direct debit arrangement, which he didnt question. After the investigator 
issued his view, Mr B provided bank statements that show he could have paid the full sum 
for the policy when he took it out. But I dont think thats relevant here. Think hasnt 
suggested that Mr B couldnt afford to pay the full sum up front. But for whatever reason, he 
didnt do that, nor did he try to pay the remaining sum off during the next few months. 
Think says it only keeps call recordings for 13 months, and Mr B didnt make a complaint 
until much later than that. In the absence of a call recording, I think its fair to rely on the 
records in Thinks file. The records show that the policy documents were sent to Mr B on the 
day he bought the policy, by email. Thinks £75 set-up charge is set out in the statement of 
price. A separate letter - headed Confirmation of Direct Debit Instruction set-up - shows the 
cost of the policy and the extra cost for finance (interest). 
After the investigator issued his view, Mr B told us he didnt get any correspondence from 
Think. I think its more likely than not that the documents were sent to him, as shown in the 
business file, although its possible they went astray. But the notes show Mr B spoke to an 
advisor four days after buying the policy on 30 January 2017 and again on 15 February 
2017. Id have expected him to have queried not having received any policy documents 
during these conversations. In my opinion, Think cant be blamed if Mr B didnt see them. As 
Im satisfied that it communicated all the charges to Mr B, I cant uphold his  complaint. 
Mr B asked the investigator to ensure that the ombudsman dealing with his case was made 
aware that after the policy was cancelled, Think didnt return the full refund due to him. This 
issue wasnt part of Mr Bs original complaint, so I cant deal with it. But its open to Mr B to 
raise the issue with Think and allow it to consider its response.         
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman