DRN-3758660
The complaint
This complaint is about delays N says it experienced when it asked Topaz Finance Limited, 
trading as Rosinca Mortgages (Rosinca Mortgages) to approve an agreement it had made 
with developers in relation to Right of Light.
What happened
On 15 November 2021, N contacted Rosinca Mortgages seeking approval for an agreement 
it had made with property developers. The agreement involved offering compensation for 
Right of Light and N told Rosinca Mortgages that the third-party solicitor had requested their 
approval before it would finalise the agreement.  
N says Rosinca Mortgages was aware an agreement needed to be reached quickly as it had 
already got a buyer. But Rosinca Mortgages did not provide an answer and N had to contact 
it regularly to find out what was going on. N says it wasnt receiving a response and 
eventually the buyer pulled out and it was possible the developers would also pull out. N 
decided to redeem to the mortgage to avoid the need for Rosinca Mortgages agreement. N 
says it had to pay administration costs and legal fees it could have avoided if Rosinca 
Mortgages had acted sooner.
Rosinca Mortgages looked into Ns concerns and agreed there had been some errors in their 
handling of the query. They said the delays N experienced were unavoidable due to the legal 
nature of the query, but they accepted they should have kept N up to date and that some of 
its emails went unanswered.  For this, they apologised. 
N thought Rosinca Mortgages should do more to put things right. So, the case was brought 
to this service and an investigator looked into Ns concerns. Our investigator agreed with the 
findings Rosinca Mortgages reached but felt that it should award compensation of £150 for 
the inconvenience caused to N.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Ns complaint should be upheld, but I cant award the sum N is 
hoping for. Ill explain why.
As Ive said above, N initiated the request on 15 November 2021. And looking at 
Rosinca Mortgages records, it appears the request was initially acted on quickly. Within two 
days they went back to N to ask for more information and also passed the query on to their 
legal team the same day. I can see that N responded within two days also, but as it hadnt 
heard anything back over two weeks later, it asked Rosinca Mortgages for an update. 
A few days later, information requested by the legal team was forwarded to Ns solicitors. 
It seems N may not have been aware of all of the correspondence between its solicitors and 
Rosinca Mortgages. Specifically, that the legal team at Rosinca Mortgages responded to the 
Right of Light request but had some additional points it wanted agreed before it finalised 
things. On the other hand, it appears Ns solicitors felt Rosinca Mortgages had not covered 
everything they needed them to.
N continued to chase Rosinca Mortgages but was given limited information about what was 
happening and on 30 December 2021, it was informed a number of staff would be on annual 
leave until the new year. 
By 13 January 2022, N still hadnt received an update, so it had to get in contact with 
Rosinca Mortgages again and was understandably more frustrated. 
The next day, on 14 January 2022, Rosinca Mortgages explained that the email it had 
received from Ns solicitors on 9 December 2021 didnt address the additional points theyd 
raised and that they could not take the request any further without that. A letter was then 
sent to Ns solicitors requesting its agreement.
It seems by this point N had decided to take the matter elsewhere and a redemption 
statement was requested on 4 April 2022 and the mortgage was redeemed later the same 
month. So, the Light of Charge agreement is no longer required, but N says it lost a 
significant amount of money in administration costs and solicitor fees due to the delays 
caused by Rosinca Mortgages. 
Ive thought about this carefully, but I dont think Rosinca Mortgages is entirely responsible 
for the delays N experienced. It seems both parties were expecting more information from 
each other and ultimately, legal matters can take longer to resolve than other standard 
transactions. Rosinca Mortgages had a right to ensure it was happy with the agreement N 
had offered the property developers because it had a 30% interest in the property in 
question. 
That said, its clear Rosinca Mortgages should have been more proactive in letting N know 
what was happening. This may not have avoided the buyer pulling out, but N would have at 
least understood what was happening at every stage and could have chased its own 
solicitors if necessary.
Considering everything, I agree with our investigator that an award of £150 should be offered 
in acknowledgment of the inconvenience caused to N. I think this is fair and in line with what 
we would usually award under similar circumstances. But for the reasons explained above, I 
dont think Rosinca Mortgages is responsible for other administration costs and legal fees 
incurred. I also dont think it can be held responsible if Ns buyer chose to pull out.
 
Putting things right
Topaz Finance Limited, trading as Rosinca Mortgages should:
Award compensation of £150 in total to N.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Ns complaint and Topaz Finance Limited, trading 
as Rosinca Mortgages should put things right in line with what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman