DRN-4082276
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited treated him unfairly by moving the 
value of his pension into a Deposit Fund when he reached the policys normal retirement 
date (NRD). He says that, because Aviva didnt make him aware of that fact, it cost him the 
opportunity of selecting an investment that would give investment returns.
What happened
Mr B holds a personal pension product with Aviva. Aviva explain that Mr B took out this 
policy in 1972 with a third party and the policy transferred to them.
Aviva describe the policy as a legacy policy. It says that the policy was set up with a one off 
premium of £80 to provide an annual annuity. And the fund was valued using a cash 
conversion factor to provide that annuity.
The NRD for Mr Bs policy was reached in 2014. Aviva informed Mr B that the value of his 
pension fund was almost £19,000. Mr B decided not to take his pension benefits and leave it 
invested with Aviva.
In 2016 Aviva informed Mr B that his pension was valued at just over £19,000. And again 
Mr B decided not to take any benefits from his policy.
In 2018 Mr B enquired again of Aviva what the value of his policy was as he explained he 
was intending to take benefits from it. He was informed in December 2018 that his policy 
was, in fact, worth around £6,700. When Mr B complained about this drop in value, Aviva 
explained that the earlier values were calculated in error and his policy had never been 
worth the figures hed been quoted in 2014 and 2016. Mr Bs complaint about the incorrect 
valuations was referred to our service and the complaint was resolved by an Ombudsmans 
Final Decision in May 2020, albeit not to Mr Bs satisfaction. Our service is not able to 
consider this complaint issue further.
Mr B obtained a further valuation of his pension fund in November 2021 and its value had 
not changed at all. He queried this and on 31 December 2021 Aviva wrote to Mr B with 
details of his policy. It confirmed that his fund was invested as a cash amount that provides 
increases in line with the Provident Mutual Deposit Fund from the policys NRD. 
Mr B complained to Aviva about the fact that his pension had been held as cash since 2014. 
And he asked for full information about the performance of his pension fund since 2014.
Aviva didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It explained that it isnt its policy to provide full 
tabulation of the performance of Mr Bs pension since 2014. And explained that it also isnt 
its policy to state how the pension fund is invested when sending illustrations. It said that it 
was normal for a policy like Mr Bs to move to a Deposit Fund at NRD and it would have 
been explained in the policy terms that he agreed to in 1972.
Our investigator looked into this case and thought it should be upheld. He didnt think that it 
was fair or reasonable for Aviva to place Mr Bs pension fund into a cash position with no 
explanation being offered that it was happening. The investigator on the case has 
subsequently changed, but the current investigators view of the merits of the case remains 
the same. He has however proposed a means of putting things right. He suggested that 
Aviva should calculate the notional fund value had it been invested in a similar way as 
invested prior to the NRD. But identified that may not be possible so suggested that it would 
be fair to instead compare the actual fund value with the notional value had it been invested 
in a way to give comparable investment returns as a benchmark index. And proposed that 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index would be a fair benchmark.
Mr B accepted our investigators proposed resolution. Aviva however disagreed that 
compensation should be paid at all. It said that Mr B should have known since 2018 how his 
pension fund was invested. And that Mr B could have re-invested it from 2018 and yet chose 
not to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will start my decision by explaining that I will not be considering the matter that was already 
addressed in an earlier Ombudsmans final decision. After a final decision has been issued, 
our service has no power or authority to re-examine that decision.
As our investigator has explained, the crux of Mr Bs present complaint relates to a different 
issue. Albeit extending from what, Mr B describes as, Avivas ongoing failings. The issue that 
I am addressing is whether or not it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to place the transfer 
value of his personal pension into a cash fund that was indexed to a Deposit Fund without 
explicitly informing him that this was happening.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Aviva's actions here.
From PRIN 2.1 The Principles:
Principle 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Principle 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
From COBS 2.1.1R - A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Mr B took out his pension policy in 1972. Over 50 years ago now. And he didnt take that 
policy out with Aviva, but with a company that Aviva took over at some point. Aviva have 
explained that it doesnt have a copy of the terms and conditions for Mr Bs policy. And Mr B has explained that he doesnt either. What this means is that Im denied the opportunity of 
seeing exactly what terms and conditions Mr B agreed to. Or how clearly they were 
explained to him. I accept that it is more likely than not, that he would have had some form of 
terms explaining his policy. But, in the absence of the evidence, Im unable to conclude that 
the contents of those terms made it clear what would happen to Mr Bs pension policy after 
his NRD. And it also means that Aviva had no way of being satisfied that the terms were 
sufficiently clear either.
However, in this case it doesnt impact on my overall finding. That is because I dont think it 
was fair or reasonable of Aviva to have made such a fundamental change to Mr Bs policy at 
the NRD without any form of explanation. Whilst the Principles for Businesses didnt exist in 
1972, they did apply to the way Aviva had to conduct its business with regards to Mr B from 
2014 onwards. To comply with principle 6 and principle 7, Avivas communication with Mr B 
ought to have made it clear what was happening with his pension. And for the following 
reasons, Ive concluded it didnt.
Ive seen the letter that Aviva sent to Mr B in May 2014. It told him that the value of his 
pension fund was £18,589.24 and that the actual fund value on retirement could be different. 
Setting aside the fact that Aviva provided an inflated fund valuation in 2014, nothing in the 
illustration Mr B was sent indicated that the fund value was invested in the way that Aviva 
now say was the case. Instead the illustration explained, your retirement fund could go 
down as well as up. Which would infer that it is invested in some way linked to financial 
markets. And certainly doesnt reflect what Aviva now say was the actual position. Which it 
says meant the fund value could not go down as it was in cash.
Ive also looked at the letter Mr B was sent in December 2018 when he was given a pension 
valuation of £6,754.64. This correspondence included a section, headed, leave your money 
where it is and make your choices later. It explained, the value of your pension pot can go 
down as well as up as it remains invested. Which, again, Aviva explain wasnt the case. It 
has explained that these are standard forms. But that does not make it reasonable to send a 
consumer information that is misleading. There is nothing in this correspondence that would 
indicate to Mr B that his pension fund is effectively in cash. On the contrary, I think it 
indicates that he remains invested. The letter even explained, you may be able to review 
the funds youre invested in to make sure theyre right for you.
Overall, the information Aviva sent Mr B failed to comply with its obligations under 
principles 6 and 7, and failed to comply with COBS 2.1.1R. And I dont think it is fair or 
reasonable to suggest that terms and conditions from around 50 years earlier should offset 
the impact of that failing. I think it more reasonable to conclude that Mr B would have paid 
attention to the information Aviva provided him at the time.
For these reasons I think that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
Having concluded that Aviva treated Mr B unfairly, Ive considered what the impact of that 
mistake was. And how to put him into the position hed most likely be but for Avivas mistake.
In 2014 Mr B appeared to make a conscious decision to defer taking the benefits available to 
him through this pension. And whilst he thought it was of a higher value at the time, when he 
knew the value was actually lower (in 2018) he still deferred taking the benefits. The 
evidence suggests that Mr B reasonably believed his pension was invested and subject to 
investment growth. Given the likely term that he expected his pension fund to remain 
untouched I think that Mr B would, more likely than not, have arranged for his pension to be 
more suitably invested to allow the opportunity for growth if hed known it was instead held in cash. 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr B was made aware of the nature of his pension fund until, in 
response to his direct query, Aviva wrote to him on 31 December 2021. In that letter it 
explained that his fund had been in cash since his NRD in 2014. And that it provided 
increases in line with the Provident Mutual Deposit Fund. The earliest that Mr B could have 
received this information was Tuesday 4 January 2022. And, whilst I can see that Mr B 
complained very soon after this revelation, he didnt seek to move his pension fund into an 
alternative investment at that time.
By 4 January 2022 Mr B was in a different position. Closer, perhaps, to actually taking the 
benefits in his pension. So I dont think its fair to infer that, because he didnt look to invest 
his pension in 2021, whilst his complaint was being resolved, means that he wouldnt have 
sought to invest it in 2014. The likely investment terms are too different and the events too 
far removed. I do however agree that it isnt fair to hold Aviva responsible for the fact that 
Mr Bs pension remained where it was from 4 January 2022 when it finally made his position 
clear to him. He had all of the information needed to make his choice, which for better or 
worse, was to leave his pension fund as it was.
To compensate Mr B Aviva must:
Compare the performance of Mr Bs pension with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value (see below) is greater than the actual value (see below), 
there is a loss and compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Aviva must pay into Mr Bs pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any investment growth due on that loss (based on 
his actual fund performance from 4 January 2022 until the date it is notified that Mr B 
accepts my Final Decision). The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. Aviva shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if 
it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Aviva is unable to pay the compensation into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Bs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its likely that Mr B will be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction would equal 20%. However, If Mr B would have been able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in 
an overall reduction of 15%.
I have also considered the distress and inconvenience that Avivas mistake has cost 
Mr B. Following on from Avivas earlier mistake with Mr Bs pension this subsequent 
mistake has caused a greater impact. Having suffered the previous loss of 
expectation regarding his pension, he had to endure the additional disappointment of 
learning that his pension had been in a cash position for seven years without having 
been told. So Aviva must pay Mr B £300 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.Actual Value 
This means the actual value of the plan on 4 January 2022.
Notional Value
This is the value that Mr Bs pension would, more likely than not, have had but for Avivas 
mistake. Its likely that he would have requested that it be re-invested in a way similar to that 
before he reached the NRD. If possible Aviva should calculate the value of the pension fund 
if it had remained invested in a similar way from the NRD of the policy until 4 January 2022.
I have not seen any policy certificate or terms and conditions for this pension though. And 
based on what Aviva have said, it seems likely that this policy didnt have an invested fund 
value, as such, prior to the conversion that happened on the NRD. So it may not be possible 
for Aviva to compare based on any previous investment type. If that is the case, Aviva 
should instead use the following benchmark for fund performance between the NRD and 
4 January 2022:
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index
Why is this benchmark suitable?
Ive chosen this benchmark as a way to calculate compensation because:
Mr B wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of Aviva receiving Mr B's acceptance 
of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aviva deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Aviva should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HMRC if appropriate.
Finally, Aviva must provide Mr B with details of its loss calculation in a clear simple format, 
including the pensions starting valuation at NRD.
My final decision
For the above reasons I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to compensate Mr B in the manner I have set out under the heading Putting things 
right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Gary LaneOmbudsman