DRN-4389426
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the approach taken by AIG Life Limited when her policy was 
cancelled.
What happened
The background to this matter is well known to the parties. In summary Mrs M took out a 
term assurance policy through a broker in 2018. The policy was written in trust with two 
trustees  Miss M, Mrs Ms daughter and Mr M. In 2020 the policy was cancelled  Mrs M 
complains that AIG should have informed Miss M at this time and reported a fraud to the 
police.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. Mrs M appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint - no discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take 
this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. Although I recognise that Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision, for the 
following reasons I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator:
The policy was cancelled in 2020 by Mrs Ms broker through AIGs online portal. AIG 
was entitled to take the instruction from the broker  of course it was for the broker to 
ensure it had consent. But in this decision, Im considering only the actions of AIG.
Mrs M said that AIG should have notified her of the cancellation  but Im satisfied 
that AIG did email Mrs M at the address it had on file with the cancellation 
notification. So I dont find there was any failing here on AIGs part. There was no 
obligation on AIG also to notify Miss M.
AIG didnt find that there had been a fraud committed when a second policy was 
taken out. It follows no report was made to the police. For completeness I would say 
that it is anyway not for this service to tell a business how to operate or what its 
process in relation to fraud should be.
In all the circumstances I dont find that AIG Life Limited did anything wrong here, so 
there is no basis for me to require it to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman