DRN-4078569
The complaint
Mr B complains that Raymond James Investment Services Limited (Raymond James) gave 
unsuitable advice to invest in an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS), which 
was too risky for his risk profile. He says when he transferred his pension away from 
Raymond James this was delayed due to his investment in the UCIS.
What happened
Mr B sought advice from Raymond James in 2010 about his pension arrangements. 
An Investment Strategy Assessment document completed at the time said the expected size 
of the portfolio to be managed was £430,000. 
The Raymond James Account form shows Mr B asked for a managed discretionary fund. 
Raymond James recommended that he invest through a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) and the investment strategy was to place 50% in fixed income investment and 50% 
in equity investment, with an instruction to include a wider range of investments such as 
hedge funds and private equity investments.
Amongst other things, the documents noted that: 
This was a long-term investment to run for more than 10 years. The returned asset 
mix was Deposit Alternative and Mr B wanted to include alternative investments in 
his portfolio.
Mr B was the Managing Director of a company with an annual income of £100,000 
from dividends. His outgoings were £2,500 a month. He had over £1,000,000 in liquid 
investments and owned property worth more than £2,000,000.
Mr B had held a wide range of investments, but didnt take an active interest in them.
Funds were invested in a SIPP for Mr B and some of the funds were invested in EEA Life 
Settlements, an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS). 
In 2021 Mr B complained to Raymond James about the advice to invest in the UCIS. This 
was after he had consulted another IFA and moved his pension to a different SIPP. He said 
he should not have been advised to invest in an unregulated scheme, which was too high 
risk for him and had led a loss on his investment. He also said the transfer of his pension 
took six months, which was too long.
Raymond James didnt accept that it was at fault. It said the investments were all in line with 
his attitude to risk, and there hadnt been any delay in transferring his pension. 
Mr B then referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator thought the complaint about 
investing in the UCIS should be upheld. He asked Raymond James to carry out a calculation 
to see if Mr B had suffered a loss as a result of the advice.
Raymond James didnt agree with the investigator. It said:
the evidence shows a medium risk profile was agreed with Mr B and the investment 
formed a suitable part of the overall portfolio;
it wasnt correct to say Mr B wanted a low risk approach;
the risk profile was equivalent to 50% bonds and 50% equities and this was not a low 
risk strategy;
Mr B was a wealthy individual with a significant capacity for loss and the investment 
only formed a small part of the overall SIPP account.
The investigator didnt change his view that investing in the UCIS was too risky.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Raymond James had to obtain enough information from Mr B to assess his financial 
circumstances and take reasonable care to ensure the recommendation it made was 
suitable for him, taking into account his circumstances including his attitude to risk and 
capacity for loss. Raymond James says it did this and recommended something that was 
suitable, taking into account his wealth and a medium risk profile agreed with him. Ive 
considered carefully what Mr Bs circumstances were and whether the recommendation was 
indeed suitable for him.
While the documents show Mr B agreed to having some funds invested in alternative 
investments, he has said he wanted a low risk approach. Raymond James final response to 
Mr Bs complaint said his objective was to achieve a return above inflation without losing 
money over any 12-month period. This objective is likely to be compatible with a cautious 
attitude to risk. A 50:50 split between bonds and equities is more aligned to a lower risk 
approach. And a later document reviewing Mr Bs pensions and making recommendations 
specifically says,
The total return to date has been modest due to the low risk approach selected at the 
outset. For example, exposure to equities has been modest
The information available is limited - due to the amount of time since the advice was given, 
Raymond James no longer has all of the documents. But from the evidence that is available 
Im satisfied that Mr B wanted a low risk approach and this is what was agreed. I dont think 
the evidence supports Raymond James view that a medium risk approach was in line with 
his attitude to risk.
Mr B has said he had no involvement in choosing the specific funds he was invested in. This 
is supported by the Investment Strategy Assessment where Mr B said he had no active 
interest in his investments. Im satisfied he was invested in EEA Life Settlements because of 
the advice he was given by Raymond James. 
This is an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS). Because of the lack of 
regulation and the type of assets they invest in, UCIS can be complex and high risk. The 
regulator has generally regarded this type of investment as having a high degree of volatility 
and risk of being illiquid. They are usually considered to be speculative investments and in 
practice rarely regarded as suitable for more than a small part of an investment portfolio.
Mr Bs pension was invested in a range of assets. As stated, I have limited information but 
this investment seems to have made up at least 7 or 8% of his initial investment (and a 
valuation from 2014 indicates it was around 10% at that point). I cant see there was a good 
reason to make this investment given Mr Bs risk profile.Under the FCAs rules, this type of investment is not to be marketed to an ordinary retail 
investor. While Mr B is relatively wealthy, I havent seen evidence showing he was a certified 
High Net Worth Individual or Sophisticated Investor. 
Taking all of the above into account, I dont consider the advice to invest in this way was 
suitable for Mr B.
Mr B says when he wanted to transfer his pension, this was delayed by the fact he had funds 
invested in an unregulated investment scheme. I dont think its necessary to comment on 
this, other than to say the steps I am directing Raymond James to take are aimed at putting 
him in the position he would have been in, if he had been given suitable advice. So it 
addresses this point as it places him, as far as possible, in the position he would have been 
in if his pension had not been invested in that way.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr B would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Raymond James do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Raymond James must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Raymond James should also add any interest set out below to the compensation 
payable.
Raymond James should pay into Mr B's pension plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Raymond James is unable to pay the total amount into Mr B's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, 
it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.Its reasonable to assume that Mr B is likely to be a higher rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 40%. However, if Mr B would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 30%.
Pay to Mr B £300 for distress caused by finding out he had invested in an 
unregulated investment which was difficult to sell and may have caused him a loss..
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Raymond James deducts income tax 
from the interest it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Raymond James should 
give Mr B a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Raymond 
James 
pension 
portfolio 
(2010)No longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple 
per year on 
any loss from 
the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Raymond James should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial 
value acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Raymond James pays should be 
included in the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Raymond James is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose of calculating the actual value. Raymond James may require that 
Mr B provides an undertaking to pay Raymond James any amount he may receive from 
the illiquid assets in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that 
would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Raymond James will 
need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Raymond 
James should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Raymond James pension portfolio (2010) should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, 
to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Raymond James totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr B would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Raymond James Investment Services Ltd 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Raymond James Investment Services Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr B in 
a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman