DRN-2495899
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros handled a 
claim she made on her home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs W got in touch with Ocaso after noticing water damage to her home. The 
leak was found to be coming from Mrs Ws neighbours home. So Ocaso told Mrs W it 
wouldnt be able to carry out any repairs until the leak had been fixed.
Mrs W let Ocaso know the leak had been stopped. Before any work could be carried out, the 
property needed to be dried. In September 2019, there were some delays in drying works 
beginning, due to problems with the property being stripped out and further delays in the 
stripping out beginning. When works began, Mrs W and her husband had to move out of the 
property, due to the noise of the driers and also because Mrs W said she was without light in 
the bathroom.
Ocaso offered a cash settlement for the costs of repair, but ultimately Mrs W agreed for its 
contractors to carry out the works. She was unhappy with the way Ocaso had handled her 
claim. She complained about the delays in progressing the claim; that shed repeatedly had 
to call Ocaso for updates; shed been without a bathroom light during October and 
November. She said shed had to buy a new wardrobe because the old one shed had to 
dismantle couldnt be put back together.  
Ocaso accepted itd made some mistakes in the way itd handled Mrs Ws claim. It offered 
her £150 compensation to recognise the impact its errors had had on her. Mrs W remained 
unhappy with how Ocaso had handled her claim and she asked us to look into her 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ocaso had handled Mrs Ws claim fairly. He felt, given the time 
of year and the works that had needed to be carried out in the bathroom, that it wouldve 
been reasonable for Ocaso to offer Mrs W alternative accommodation. So he thought it 
should pay her an additional £200 compensation on top of what it had already offered.
Neither Ocaso nor Mrs W agreed with our investigator. Mrs W didnt think the compensation 
our investigator had recommended was enough to recognise the impact the claim had had 
on her. Ocaso said that it had offered Mrs W alternative accommodation. But it offered to 
increase its total offer of compensation to £200.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Ocaso has treated Mrs W fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. In 
this case, Ocaso accepts that it didnt handle the claim as promptly as it shouldve done. Its 
contractors did make errors, which delayed drying works being able to start. As the repairs 
couldnt be undertaken until Mrs Ws home was dry, this inevitably resulted in the claim 
being unnecessarily prolonged.
I can also see from Ocasos records that Mrs W frequently needed to call up to chase 
progress on her claim. I think, given she was unhappy with the way her claim was moving 
on, it wouldve been helpful if Ocaso had kept in touch with her more often and let her know 
what was happening.
Mrs W told us that the repairs were being carried out to the only bathroom she had in her 
home. Shes provided photos of the bathroom while the repairs were ongoing and it seems 
the repairs were extensive, with the bath and the sink effectively taped over. It seems the 
bathroom light wasnt working at times and Mrs W says she had to shower in the dark. Given 
the repairs were being carried out during October and November 2019, I think this seems 
plausible. And I can see from the notes that Ocaso suggested to Mrs W that she kept the 
driers turned on at all times to hurry along the drying. Mrs W told us the driers were so noisy 
that she and her partner had to stay elsewhere while the works were ongoing.
It seems to me, given the apparent scale of the works that needed to be done in the 
bathroom; the fact it seems to have been Mrs Ws only bathroom and the inevitable noise of 
the driers, that it wouldve been reasonable for Ocaso to offer Mrs W alternative 
accommodation while the repairs were going on. Ocaso suggested to us that its contractor 
did do so and sent us a phone call which it said demonstrated this. However, having listened 
to the call, theres no mention of alternative accommodation, other than Mrs W mentioning 
that shed had to stay with relatives. A letter from Ocasos contractor also suggests that it 
hadnt considered her home to be uninhabitable, which doesnt indicate that alternative 
accommodation had been offered to her. This makes me think its more likely than not that 
Ocaso didnt offer Mrs W alternative accommodation.
Taking this together with the delays Ocaso accepts it caused to the progression of the claim, 
overall I agree with the investigator that £350 total compensation seems fair and reasonable 
to recognise the impact its handling of the claim had on Mrs W. It put her to some trouble 
and inconvenience in not dealing with the claim as promptly as it ought to have done. And I 
think it caused her additional upset when she had to try and use the bathroom during the 
repairs and make arrangements to stay with relatives. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
I direct Ocaso to pay Mrs W £200 compensation in addition to the £150 its already offered. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 Lisa Barham
Ombudsman