DRN-4121880
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled their claim for subsidence 
on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had home insurance that was underwritten by AXA. In March 2020 they made 
a claim as theyd noticed worsening cracking on the walls of their lounge. AXA inspected the 
damage and found it to be subsidence caused by an escape of water that had resulted in a 
void beneath the foundations. 
To resolve it, the property was jacked up and screw piling was carried out at the front of the 
house, however after a period of settling, further movement was noted. On investigation it 
was found that the property had some historic issues that hadnt been noticed before and 
were causing further issues. AXA decided a portion of the property needed to be rebuilt to 
address the problem. 
However this took a long time to complete. In part due to a dispute with the neighbouring 
property about whether a party wall agreement would be needed as the work affected a wall 
between two terraced houses. 
Throughout the claim Mr and Mrs H raised concerns about how it was being handled, the 
condition of their property and the impact this was having on their life. In particular:
They were living in cold conditions as damage had meant that two radiators upstairs 
had to be removed and there were draughts in the front rooms where the cracks 
were downstairs.
They had been unable to use the front door since their property had been jacked up 
and their back door had broken during this time which they had paid to have fixed. 
Their house had been a building site for two years and AXA hadnt agreed to moving 
them out while repairs took place. 
AXAs contractors had not communicated well with them which had meant they had 
very few updates on how the claim was progressing.
The disagreements around the party wall had impacted their relationship with their 
neighbours. 
AXA had responded to previous complaints and awarded £150 compensation. However it 
agreed to review the whole claim in full again. Having done so, it agreed there had been 
some delays and poor service. It offered a further £500 compensation to make up for this. 
Unhappy with this Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
thought the impact of AXAs delays and poor service had been considerable and thought it 
should pay them a total of £2,000 compensation. She also thought it should reimburse Mr 
and Mrs H for the extra costs they had paid for electric heaters and to repair the back door 
and a window that had smashed due to the repairs, on receipt of proof of these costs. She 
said it should pay 8% interest on these costs as well, to make up for the time theyd been 
without the funds. 
AXA didnt agree with our investigators outcome. It said it didnt agree it was responsible for 
delays relating to the party wall, as this was due to the neighbour changing their mind about 
whether an agreement would be necessary or not. It also said that Mr and Mrs H hadnt 
informed it that theyd removed the radiators upstairs and when theyd told it about the 
draughts, it had done a temporary repair to stop this straight away. So it didnt agree any 
additional compensation was due. 
Further, it said it hadnt been told about the damage to the window or the back door, so 
shouldnt have to cover these costs. 
Because agreement wasnt reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive identified a number of delays and poor service caused by AXA, in 
summary:
AXA initially chose to jack the property up and apply screw piling. While I can see 
that this was on the recommendation of its expert, this work appears to have been 
the cause of the further problems that have been encountered. AXA has said that the 
underlying cause was previous issues with the building that werent apparent until 
this work was completed. And I dont dispute this. However Mr and Mrs H have 
shown that further damage was caused by the jacking itself, including damage 
rendering the front door unusable. This suggests this initial work wasnt carried out 
with the due care wed expect.
After the piling was found to have failed at the end of 2020, it wasnt until April 2022 
that work to rebuild the front of the property began. This was a very long delay and 
from looking at the emails between AXA and its contractors I think a large part of this 
could have been avoided. 
While I can see that there were changes to the third party neighbours approach to 
having a party wall agreement in place, I think AXA should have done more to take 
control of this situation at an earlier time. I can see there was a lot of discussion 
internally about whether an agreement should be sought, and it seems it was left to 
the neighbours to decide, rather than by AXA. And as the experts, Id expect AXA to 
foresee that this may be necessary if it declined to pay the neighbours cost and that 
this would likely be what it would do.
During the time between the first repair and the subsequent repairs Mr and Mrs H 
were given very little information about the progress of their claim. And during this 
time the condition of their house was such that they couldnt use the front rooms in 
the upstairs or downstairs of the house and didnt have proper heating across two 
winter seasons. AXA has said it wasnt aware of these conditions and I understand 
from Mr H that this was due to its contractors not passing this information on. Considering how uncomfortable these conditions would have been, Id expect this to 
have been passed on as a matter of urgency. 
Due to the conditions in the property, and the fact the front door couldnt be used Mr 
and Mrs H asked if they could be moved into alternative accommodation. While I can 
see that kitchen and bathroom facilities were unaffected, so the property wouldnt 
meet the usual threshold for alternative accommodation, I think more understanding 
and consideration for Mr and Mr Hs circumstances should have been given. 
Based on this, I think AXA has caused a number of avoidable delays throughout the claim. 
And this has caused the claim to go on for longer than it should have. And the poor service 
provided, particularly by its contractors, have left Mr and Mrs H with little information about 
the claim and how long it would take to resolve. 
Mr and Mrs H have described the impact this has had on them, including living in a cold 
house for a prolonged period of time, having to rely just on the back door to enter and exit 
the property, living in a worsening condition with draughts coming through the cracks and not 
being able to use a large part of their house.  As this has gone on for the best part of two 
years I consider the impact to have been significant. 
Because of this, I agree with our investigators recommendation that AXA increase the 
compensation to a total of £2,000 to apologise for the poor service and delays.
Mr and Mrs H have also highlighted extra cost theyve incurred due to the repair work. Such 
as a broken window and the cost of electric heaters to warm their home. I agree with our 
investigator that if they are able to evidence these costs then AXA should reimburse them, 
with an additional 8% simple interest to make up for the time without the funds. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I direct AXA Insurance UK 
Plc to:
Pay Mr and Mrs H a total of £2,000 compensation.
If Mr and Mrs H are able to provide evidence to show the additional amounts they 
paid for the electric heating and repairs to the back door and window then AXA 
should reimburse these. It should also pay 8% simple interest on these amounts from 
the date Mr and Mrs H paid for them until AXA reimburse them.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman