DRN-3362732
The complaint
Ms P, who is represented by a third party, says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D 
Williams), trading as Simply Be, irresponsibly lent to her. She has requested that the 
interest and late payment charges she has paid on two accounts she had be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about two catalogue shopping accounts provided by J D Williams to Ms 
P. Account A was opened in July 2017 with Ms P being given an initial credit limit of £200. 
This limit was increased 8 times until it reached £2500 in July 2020. Account B was opened 
in August 2019 with Ms P being given an initial credit limit of £175. This limit was increased 
4 times until it reached £1000 in July 2020. 
J D Williams told us that a third account Ms P had complained about was a full cash only 
account that wasnt used for lending, so I wont be considering that account in this decision. 
Ms P says shes unhappy that J D Williams continued to increase her credit limit on each 
account when she was in financial difficulty.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Ps complaint and thought that J D Williams ought to 
have realised that she wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit on 
either account by the time it offered Ms P the increased credit limit on Account B in 
November 2019. J D Williams has disagreed, saying that it had no reason to think that 
Ms P was experiencing financial difficulties and explaining why Ms P was able to go 
over credit limit at around that time. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms P 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought J D Williams shouldnt have 
provided Ms P with any additional credit from November 2019 onwards. J D Williams 
didnt entirely agree with what our adjudicator said. 
Nonetheless, Ive also looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history with 
Ms P, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which J D Williams should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, 
that would mean J D Williams should have realised that it shouldnt have further 
increased Ms Ps credit limit on these accounts.
Having reviewed the complaint, Ive decided to partially uphold this complaint on the same 
basis as our adjudicator. I will explain why. 
J D Williams says that when Ms P opened each account there were no signs of financial 
difficulties based on the checks it carried out. Having reviewed those checks, and taking into 
account the opening credit limits of £400 (Account A) and £300 (Account B) she was given, I 
dont think there is enough to suggest it would have been unreasonable for J D Williams to 
have approved each account. J D Williams didnt however ask about Ms Ps income, which 
is something that may have helped it begin to build a picture of Ms Ps overall financial 
circumstances. 
Ive seen that Ms P didnt provide our adjudicator with her bank statements covering the time 
she had these accounts. Thats something that would have further assisted our adjudicator 
in understanding Ms Ps level of committed expenditure alongside her history of borrowing.
I agree with out adjudicator that for the first seven initial credit limit increases for 
Account A and up to the point of the first credit limit increase for Account B in November 
2019, there wasnt enough to suggest that J D Williams had been lending irresponsibly to 
Ms P. Ive seen that there were missed payments for both accounts before November 
2019. I also agree that it would have been proportionate to carry out further checks to 
verify Ms Ps income and expenditure. However, as things stand without having seen 
more details about Ms Ps financial situation so as to understand that J D Williams might 
have seen, Ive no way of knowing if such further checks would have shown that 
increases up to that point were unaffordable for Ms P. Ive also noted that, following missed payments in November and December 2019, Ms P 
also went over her credit limit for Account A, which at that point was £2250. That situation 
continued into 2020. In addition, J D Williams made further credit limit increases for 
Account B in February and April 2020. This happened even though Ms P was still at that 
point over her credit limit for Account A and was failing to pay back enough to take her 
balance back down below the credit limit. That situation continued up to May 2020. And 
even though J D Williams increased the credit limit for Account A to £2500 in July 2020, 
the amount Ms P owed to still exceeded her credit limit. At the same J D Williams 
increased the credit limit for Account B to £1000. 
I think that had J D Williams carried out proportionate affordability checks at the time Ms P 
started to and then continued to exceed her credit limit, I think they would have likely 
shown that Ms P was experiencing difficulty in managing her financial situation, including 
meeting her daily living expenses and any other credit commitments. I say that given that 
Ms P has told us that her monthly income when these accounts were both opened was 
£700 with outgoings of £600. So I can see that by November 2019, with the requirement 
to make a total monthly payment of around £90, she would likely already be 
overstretched.
J D Williams has told us that Ms P started going over her credit limit for Account A 
because she was seeking to challenge several automatic direct debits as not being 
authorised. But in any event, J D Williams agrees that the credit limits on Account B ought 
not to have been increased after that. However, I remain of the view that the action taken 
by Ms P to withhold payments on Account A from late 2019 until and continuing into 2020, 
combined with the impact it had by way of taking her over her credit limit, remains 
consistent with the likelihood that Ms P was by then experiencing financial difficulty. Ive 
also seen that Ms P missed making payments in May and June 2020, further worsening 
her position. It follows that the further increase to her credit limit, in July 2020, was also 
likely to have been unsustainable for her.
It follows that I think that Ms P lost out because J D Williams provided her with further credit 
from November 2019 onwards. In my view, J D Williams actions unfairly prolonged Ms Ps 
indebtedness by allowing her to use credit she couldnt afford over an extended period of 
time and the interest being added would only have the effect of putting her into further debt. 
It follows that J D Williams should put things right.
Putting things right
Rework Ms Ps account to ensure that from 23 November 2019 onwards 
interest is only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £2425 (Account A 
£2250 and Account B £175), including any buy now pay later interest, (being the 
credit limits that were in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no further 
credit limit increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit 
fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams should contact Ms P to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for these accounts. Once Ms P has repaid the outstanding 
balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ps credit file 
from 23 November 2019 onwards for each account. 
ORIf the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms P, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. J D 
Williams should also remove any adverse information from Ms Ps credit file from 
23 November 2019 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. J D 
Williams must give Ms P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
I am aware that Ms P is currently in an Insolvency Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) and 
that her insolvency practitioner has expressed an interest in the compensation I have 
directed. I therefore remind Ms P of her obligation to comply with the terms of the IVA. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Ms Ps complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman