DRN-2728680
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained about the settlement offered by Covea Insurance plc 
following two claims under their landlord insurance policy for water leaks. Theyre also 
unhappy with the way their claims were handled. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out a landlord insurance policy through a broker for a property they let 
out. The buildings sum insured was £166,448.
In May 2019 they made a claim to Covea following the discovery of two water leaks from 
the main and en-suite bathrooms. Covea asked for photos of the damage. 
Mr K arranged for the main bathroom to be stripped out and sent Covea a quote for repairs 
in June. Since the quote was more than Covea had expected, it appointed a loss adjuster 
to handle the claim. The loss adjuster visited the property in mid-June. By that time some 
repairs had already been carried out.
Based on the floor area of the building the loss adjuster thought the building should have 
been insured for £231,000. Because the building hadnt been insured for the full 
reinstatement cost, on 7 August 2019 Covea said it would only pay 72.05% of the repair 
costs. It also agreed to pay £1,600 for two months loss of rent based on the time that it 
said it would have taken to carry out the necessary repairs.
Mr and Mrs K complained to Covea. They said theyd based the rebuilding cost on what it 
had cost Mr K to build the property in 2008. Covea didnt change its decision.
Mr and Mrs K brought their complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision 
explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional 
findings is set out below:
Covea has pointed out that the original sale of this policy was conducted via a broker. The 
broker in question doesnt seem to be linked to Covea in anyway which means that Covea 
isnt responsible for the sale the broker made or any errors that might have occurred during 
the sale process. In particular it isnt responsible if the broker didnt point out the possible 
consequence of Mr and Mrs K not insuring their property for the full reinstatement cost.
I think the policy documentation issued by Covea was clear as to the consequence of under-
insurance. It said if the policyholder failed to tell it about an alteration in risk such as the 
rebuilding cost of the property exceeding the sum insured, it might proportionately reduce 
the amount payable in respect of a claim. It went on to explain:
Where we elect to proportionately reduce the amount payable in respect of a claim, we will 
pay a percentage of the claim, the percentage being calculated by comparing the premium 
which you actually paid with the premium which we would have charged had you made a 
fair presentation of the risk. For example, if the premium which you actually paid is 70% of 
the premium we would have charged, we will only pay 70% of any claim.
But in any event, (as the broker didnt recommend the policy to them), it was the brokers 
responsibility to ensure that Mr and Mrs K were given enough information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that they could make an informed choice about whether the policy 
(including the sum insured) was suitable for them. Whether it did enough to ensure this, I 
dont know because Im not assessing a complaint against the broker. The main point is that 
Covea wasnt a party to the sale. So it wouldnt be fair to say it was Coveas fault that Mr and 
Mrs K under-insured their building because of unclear documentation issued by Covea.
Like many insurers Covea chooses to protect itself by including a term in its policy that 
allows it to make a proportional settlement in the event of under-insurance. It seems clear 
that the building wasnt insured for its full reinstatement value as required by the policy as 
opposed to what Mr K thought he could rebuild the property for  and these are different 
bases of valuation. So I can see no good reason not to let Covea rely on its policy term 
regarding proportional settlement to restrict its liability for this claim. 
Before deduction of the two excesses payable for each water leak the loss adjuster 
calculated the settlement as follows:
Sum insured (£166,448)                    x  loss 
Value at risk (£231,000)
Covea has confirmed that if the building had been insured for £231,000, the premium would 
have increased in the same proportion, resulting in the same result of the settlement being 
72.05% of the repair costs. As a result I dont intend to require Covea to make any further 
settlement to Mr and Mrs K for the shortfall between the value of their loss and the 
proportional settlement theyve been offered. 
I can see that the claim was first reported to Covea on 1 May 2019. It asked for photos and a 
quote to repair the damage which at that time didnt appear to be significant. It wasnt given 
any more information until 5 June. At that point Covea had a number of concerns about the 
quote provided by Mr K to repair the property. I dont think it acted unreasonably in 
appointing a loss adjuster in the light of its concerns. The loss adjuster visited the property 
within a few days. She thought the quote included works which werent necessary to repair 
the leak and that some works were over-priced. The loss adjuster also noticed that the 
property was under-insured. She asked for some further information about the claim. I can 
see that there was some delay on the part of Mr and Mrs K in providing the information 
requested. All in all, having looked at a timeline of the claim and the various complications 
involved I dont think there were any unnecessary delays on the part of Covea. I also think 
that the enquiries which it made were fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs Ks policy covers loss of rent if the property cant be lived due to an insured 
event. When Covea was first notified about the leaks, the tenant was still living in the 
property. According to the business file Mrs K told Covea the tenant didnt mind if work 
started on the main bathroom, as there was also a downstairs wc. That tenancy came to an 
end and the tenant moved out. Looking at the schedule of works required as a result of the 
water leaks (principally stripping and reinstating the bathrooms, retiling, repairing damaged 
ceilings and flooring) I think Covea acted reasonably in allowing a two month period for loss 
of rent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Since neither party had any comments on my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
change it. My provisional findings now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman