DRN-2808263
The complaint
Mr H complains as a director of G, a limited company, about charges applied by Barclays 
Bank Plc (Barclays). 
What happened
G is a limited company based in the Channel Islands. Mr H says G use Barclays as the 
acquirer for its credit card business. He says, Barclays told G they would be charging an 
international transaction fee of 2.2% in addition to the base rate charged by Credit Card M 
for any transaction where the card is issued outside of the European Economic Area 
(EEA). Mr H says Barclays have applied the 2.2% fee to all Credit Card M transactions 
whether they are from the Island where G is based, UK or overseas. Mr H says this is over 
and above the standard transaction charges that are applied. Mr H says, the majority of the 
Credit Card M transactions G undertakes are from cards issued to local customers by local 
or UK banks. So, he feels its unfair these can be treated as international. So, G complained. 
Barclays responded and explained they had given advance notice of the fee changes. They 
said, G are based in the Channel Islands and Credit Card M classify this as being outside 
the EEA. So, this means any UK bank issued cards taken as payment by G would also be 
classified as being taken outside the EEA. So, Barclays said the charges had been applied 
correctly.      
Our investigator looked into things for G. She thought Barclays hadnt acted unfairly in 
applying the charges. G disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why I have made this 
decision. 
My starting point is the terms and conditions of Gs merchant acquiring services agreement. 
Section 17 covers changes which can be made to the agreement and says, We may 
change the terms and conditions of this agreement at any time. This includes introducing 
new charges and fees or changing the rate or basis of all or any part of the charges and 
fees. We will give you at least two months notice of any changes unless they are due to 
regulatory, interchange or card scheme or changes beyond our control.  
I can see Barclays write to G in June 2019 and say theyll be making changes to their 
charges and fees from September. The letter says these are designed to reflect the charges 
they receive from Credit Card M for processing transactions. 
One of the changes listed is A new international transaction fee of 2.2% will be charged in 
addition to your base [Merchant Service Charge] (MSC) rate for any transaction where the 
card is issued outside the [EEA]. 
Barclays have given notice at least two months prior to the changes taking effect, so I cant 
say theyve acted against the terms and conditions. That said, the dispute here appears to 
relate to Barclays treating payments taken by G as being outside the EEA. G argue the 
majority of the Credit Card M transactions it undertakes are from cards issued to local 
customers by local or UK banks. So, G says its unfair these can be treated as international 
 and therefore attract the international transaction fee of 2.2%. Barclays say Credit Card M 
classify the Channel Islands as being outside of the EEA, meaning any UK bank issued 
cards taken as payment by G would also be classified as being taken outside of the EEA.
Barclays say this means these transactions will attract a significantly higher interchange and 
scheme fee rate than a domestic transaction applied to a UK and EEA transaction. 
Therefore, the 2.2% international transaction fee is levied against all Credit Card M 
transactions processed by G. 
Ive looked at Credit Card Ms rules and, under the Definitions section, it sets out the areas 
which fall within the scope of the EEA. It says For the sake of clarity, the EEA does not 
include:, it then lists areas which arent covered by the EEA and this list includes the 
Channel Islands. So, I dont think its unfair for Barclays to treat Gs transactions as having 
taken place outside the EEA. I acknowledge Mr Hs point that the majority of the transactions 
which have generated the international transaction fee relate to transactions involving cards 
issued by UK banks, but the letter sent to G in June 2019 says the 2.2% fee Applies to all 
sales in addition to your base MSC rate where the card issuer or merchant is outside of the 
[EEA] So, while the cards used by the majority of the customers might well have been 
issued by UK banks, the merchant in all of the transactions is G  and Credit Card Ms rules 
define G as being outside the EEA. Therefore, Barclays are able to charge the international 
fee on those transactions.      
Mr H says the fact Credit Card M define the Channel Islands as not being within EEA is 
irrelevant as the banking system in the Island where G is based is closely allied with the 
banking system of the UK and there is no cost of doing business between the two 
jurisdictions. I accept there are strong economic, cultural and social links between the Island 
where G is based and the UK, but that alone doesnt mean its unfair for Barclays to apply 
the international transaction fee. The key factors Ive taken into account here are the terms 
and conditions which allow Barclays to make changes to the fee structure, Credit Card Ms 
rules on the scope of the EEA and Barclays letter setting out the fact that the fee will apply 
as long as the merchant is outside of the EEA.     
I note Mr H has provided a Credit Card M document which places the Island where G is 
based in the Western Subregion in addition to the EEA countries. Theres an interchange 
rate table in the document which shows the typical rates for this region are around 0.8% per 
transaction. Mr H says, while he still considers theres no justification for Barclays to charge 
more than the domestic rate for UK cards, if Credit Card M insist on charging based on the 
Western Subregion, then a small increase on the base charge would be acceptable but not 
the 2.2% Barclays are charging.    
I can see Mr H has made enquiries with Credit Card M about their pricing structure. Credit 
Card M say, during the period G were paying the international transaction fee, Credit Card M 
took a decision to revise their intra-western interchange rates but these pricing changes 
mostly represented a decrease in interchange fees. They said all Standard Consumer 
Credit, Debit and Prepaid products saw a decrease in their interchange pricing. They also 
said, this pricing decrease varies across the multitude of products but it is in the region of      
-0.2%. 
Mr H says, there is nothing from the enquiries he has made which suggests it is more 
expensive for banks to deal with Gs local customers in comparison to UK customers. Mr H 
also says that its only Barclays who are imposing this additional charge. And, theyre 
passing this off as additional charges being made by Credit Card M.  I have carefully considered Mr Hs comments and the information he has provided but it 
doesnt change what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. Barclays say 
the introduction of the charge is a commercial decision taken by them so they arent obliged 
to further justify it. We dont have the power to direct a business on what their fee and 
charges structure should be. In this case, Barclays have made a commercial decision  
something theyre entitled to do  which has been communicated to G in line with the terms 
and conditions. So, I cant say theyve acted unfairly. 
In summary, while I understand the impact this has had on G, I cant say Barclays have 
acted unfairly here. Theyve taken steps in line with the terms and conditions and also 
informed G in advance about the fee changes.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman