DRN-4094435
The complaint
Miss V complains that American Express Payment Services Limited (AESEL) lost three 
payments that she made to it.
What happened
Miss V says she made three required payments to AESEL in early 2022 for £80 and for £200 
on two occasions. She says AESEL couldnt find the payments and so she provided 
evidence from her bank. Miss V says AESEL continued to ask for the payments and has 
recorded adverse information on her credit file. She would like all of that information 
removed and would like appropriate compensation for what took place.
AESEL says it asked Miss V for evidence of the payments as she used an incorrect account 
number. It says it initially credited Miss Vs account but didnt receive the information. AESEL 
now accepts that Miss V sent the information to an e-mail address that isnt monitored. It 
accepts that payments were made but says Miss V has refused to make further required 
payments on her balance of over £4,000.
Miss V brought her complaint to us, and our investigator upheld it in part. The investigator 
thought Miss V had made the payments in early 2022 and that AESEL should remove the 
late markers relating to those payments. The investigator also thought AESEL should pay 
£100 compensation.
AESEL has agreed with that view but says the account has now defaulted with a balance of 
nearly £5,000 and any interest charged at the time would have negligible. It says it will waive 
late payment fees from the time.
Miss V doesnt accept that view and in summary says the compensation isnt enough and 
says she didnt make a mistake with the three payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. I appreciate Miss V will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at AESELs records, and the information Miss V has provided about 
the payments in early 2022. I think on balance that Miss V didnt use the correct details 
which led to the problems. I accept that Miss V did send AESEL evidence of the payments 
but to an e-mail address that wasnt monitored. I cant fairly hold Miss V responsible for that 
part of the complaint as its clear AESEL didnt tell her that it wasnt monitored. But I also 
think the initial problem could have been avoided if the correct details were used, which do 
not appear to have been used here.
AESEL has located the payments and will credit them to Miss Vs account. I appreciate Miss 
Vs frustration here but am satisfied that her account had a significant balance that she owed 
AESEL in any event. I dont think whatever took place justified a failure to make required 
payments to AESEL and I would have expected Miss V to have made those required 
payments. It follows that I dont think AESEL has made a mistake in these circumstances by 
registering a default on Miss Vs credit file for a balance of nearly £5,000. I think it clear the 
relationship between the parties has broken down.
I have no doubt Miss V was caused distress and inconvenience as a result of what took 
place. I have made clear that both sides could have dealt more appropriately with what took 
place. Im satisfied that £100 compensation is fair and reasonable and fairly reflects what 
took place as well as the impact on Miss V. I dont think the delay in locating the money 
justifies more compensation in these circumstances.
I appreciate Miss V would like all adverse information removed from her credit file, but I have 
made clear that Miss V still owed AESEL a significant balance of over £4,000 regardless of 
the missing payments which amounted to less than £500. That balance is still owed, and no 
doubt Miss V will consider speaking to AESEL about repayment.
Putting things right
AESEL should pay Miss V £100 compensation and remove the late payment markers from 
Miss Vs credit file connected to the three missing payments. It should rework Miss Vs 
account as a result and reduce the interest owed however negligible that is. AESEL should 
also refund the late payment fees linked to the missing payments as its agreed to do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order American Express Payment 
Services Limited to pay Miss V £100 compensation and rework her account as set out. I also 
order it to remove any adverse information from Miss Vs credit file linked to the three 
missing payments. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman