DRN-3175221
The complaint
Mr N's complaint is about the refusal of a claim under one of his pet insurance policies with 
ETU Forsikring A/S.
What happened
Mr N took out two policies with ETU on 14 September 2020, one for each of his two dogs. 
On the same day he took the dogs to the vet for routine vaccinations. At that appointment 
one of the dogs (Dog 1) was also prescribed an ear cleaning solution, as her ears were dirty. 
Mr N took both dogs back to the vet on 28 September 2020, when they were both diagnosed 
with ear infections. The dogs had various treatments until February 2021.  Mr N made a 
claim on both policies in March 2021, for the costs of treatment. 
ETU refused the claims as it says the policies exclude claims made for illnesses that start 
within the first 14 days of the policy. ETU says the claim form submitted on behalf of Mr N 
says that signs of infection were first noticed on 28 August 2021, and clinical signs started 
on 14 September 2020. The vet also included the cost of ear cleaning fluid prescribed for 
Dog 1 on that date in the claim.
After Mr N complained, ETU agreed to cover the claim for one of the dogs (Dog 2 - the one 
that had not been prescribed ear cleaning fluid on 14 September 2021) as it said there was 
no clear evidence of clinical symptoms in that dog until 28 September 2020, which was just 
outside the 14 day exclusion period. ETU maintained the decision to refuse the claim for  
Dog 1, which is the subject of this complaint.  
Mr N says the appointment on 14 September 2021 was a routine vaccination appointment 
and the ear cleaning fluid was prescribed because one of his dogs had dirty ears. There was 
no clinical sign of, or diagnosis of, infection until 28 September 2021.  Mr N says the initial 
prescription should not have been included in the claim, and this was an error by the vet 
practice. Mr N also says the reference to 28 August in the claim form was an error. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He initially recommended that the complaint 
be upheld and both claims met but then changed his mind and said it was not unreasonable 
to refuse the claim for Dog 1, as there was evidence that symptoms of the ear infection had 
been present within the first 14 days of the policy.  
Mr N does not accept the investigators assessment. He says the vet said that treatment for 
the ear infections didnt start until 28 September 2021 and so the conclusion must be that 
the vet is lying, yet the investigator has accepted the view of an unqualified agent of the 
insurer whose role is to try and minimise claims. 
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns policy excludes:
The cost of treatment for 
b. an Illness within the first 14 days of Your Pets first Policy year.
c. An Illness caused by or relating to or a clinical sign that was noticed, or an Illness that
   showed Clinical Signs, within the first 14 days of Your Pets first Period of Insurance. 
This is not unusual or unfair in my opinion. Most pet insurance policies have a similar 
exclusions, for claims made soon after the policy begins, as well as for conditions that exist 
before the start of the policy. 
 
The above term means it is not just the date of diagnosis that is relevant (which it seems is 
not in dispute as being 28 September 2020) but the date that the dogs first displayed clinical 
signs relating to the ear infection. 
 
The first part of the claim form submitted to ETU says:
When did the illness first show clinical signs/symptoms?  28/8/20.
Mr N says this was an error by the vets receptionist. 
The second part of the form, completed by the vet says: 
when did the illness/injury occur/first show clinical signs/symptoms? 14/9/20
 
Treatment period (being claimed for) 14/9/20=27/2/20.
The vet prescribed an ear cleaning solution for Dog 1 on 14 September 2020 (the first day of 
the policy) and included that as part of the treatment period for the ear infection. 
On 28 September 2020, Mr N took his dogs to the vet again. The notes of this appointment 
for Dog 1 say: revisit appointmentbeen using ear cleaner, tolerated well but still a lot of 
discharge coming out. The notes for Dog 2 say Mr N had been cleaning her ears for a week 
but she also had lots of discharge. 
This suggests that for Dog 1 this was a continuation of the symptoms seen on 14 September 
2020. And Mr N said in the complaint form that the treatment prescribed on 28 September 
2020 was also ear cleaning solution. 
 
The vet has since said the dog did not show any signs of ear infection on 14 September 
2020 and symptoms for both dogs started on 28 September 2020. Mr N says if we dont 
accept that as evidence to establish his claim, we must think the vet is lying. I do not agree.  
It might have been reasonable not to have diagnosed an ear infection on 14 September 
2020 and the vet might had only thought it was an ear infection was 28 September 2020. 
However, in order to be able to rely on the exclusion, ETU needs to establish on the balance 
of probabilities (i.e. that it is more likely than not) that the ear infection diagnosed on 28 
September 2020 was related to any clinical signs that were noticed within the first 14 days of 
the policy. I am satisfied it has done this.
The symptoms shown by Dog 1 on 14 September 2020 continued and Mr N reported that 
Dog 1 had a lot of discharge from the ears in the period between 14 and 28 September 2020. The treatment given then was the same as at the first appointment. The evidence is 
that Dog 1 had clinical signs related to an ear infection, even if it was not diagnosed as such, 
before the end of the 14 day exclusion period. 
ETU has accepted the claim for Dog 2, on the basis that the vet had not said there were any 
clinical signs of ear infection in her on 14 September 2020 and I think that is reasonable. 
That is a separate decision and having accepted the claim for that dog, does not mean it has 
to accept the claim that is the subject of this decision.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman