DRN-1643485
 
The complaint
Miss R says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
Miss R bought the policy in 1995 when she took out a loan. She applied for the loan and the 
PPI at a meeting with Lloyds. The premium for the policy was added to the loan.
The loan was due to be repaid over 30 months. And the PPI policy would have covered 
Miss Rs monthly loan repayments until she returned to work if shed made a successful 
claim for accident or sickness, and for up to 12 months per successful claim for 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Miss R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Rs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
 
Lloyds no longer has a copy of Miss Rs signed application form or loan agreement. I 
dont think thats surprising, given that the sale took place so long ago. But its 
provided a sample of the sort of loan agreement that was used when loans were 
taken out in branches at the time. And I think it's likely to be representative of what 
Miss R would have seen. Theres a section about PPI which is headed Optional 
Loan Repayment Protection. There are two boxes next to this, marked Yes and 
No. Theres also a separate column of costs for the PPI policy, which is described 
as optional.
 
I acknowledge that Miss R says she didn't know PPI had been attached to the loan, 
and it was added without her knowledge or consent. But the meeting took place many years ago, and I wouldn't expect Miss R to have a detailed memory of what 
was said. From the evidence available, I think its more likely the adviser discussed 
PPI with Miss R as they were going through her loan application. And I think its likely 
Miss R decided to take the PPI, knowing she had a choice about it.
 
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Miss R. This means it had a responsibility to 
make sure that it was suitable for her. But it doesn't look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
 
Miss Rs told us shed have been entitled to six months' full sick pay from her 
employer at the time, followed by six months half pay. But the policy would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay, and potentially for longer than Miss R would have 
received full sick pay for. Shes also told us she had some savings. But having the 
policy would have enabled her to keep her savings, or to use them to meet other day-
to-day expenses at what it's likely would have been a difficult time.
 
Based on the sample loan agreement Ive seen, I think Lloyds could have explained 
the cost of the policy better. It looks as if the cost of the loan and the PPI over the full 
term of the loan would have been shown, along with the monthly repayments. But its 
unlikely that the total interest on the PPI, or the total cost of the PPI including interest, 
were shown. But Im satisfied that the interest would have been a relatively small 
amount compared with the loan amount and the PPI premium, which Miss R would 
have been aware of. And Im not convinced that knowing about the interest shed 
have to pay on the premium over the term of the loan would have put her off taking 
the PPI. 
 
I've also borne in mind that looking at the likely total cost of the PPI (including the 
interest Miss R is likely to have been charged by Lloyds) and her likely monthly loan 
repayment amount, if Miss R had made a claim, she could have got back quite a lot 
more than she paid for the PPI.
 
It's true that Miss R would have received a limited refund of the PPI premium if she 
cancelled the policy early. I dont know if Lloyds thought about this when it 
recommended the policy, or whether it explained the situation clearly to Miss R. But 
Ive seen nothing to suggest she thought shed repay it early. So I dont think this 
made the policy unsuitable  or that better information about this wouldve stopped 
her buying it.
 
Its possible Lloyds didn't point out the main things the policy didn't cover  for 
example existing medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements. But from 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, its unlikely Miss R would have been 
affected by any of these. Taking everything into account, I think she had an interest 
in the policy and decided to buy it. And I dont think more information about the policy 
would have made her change her mind. 
 
This means that I dont find that Miss R is worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have 
done wrong. And so theres nothing that Lloyds needs to do to put things right  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman