DRN-3260493
The complaint
Mr O says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him
Irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr O took out a 24-month instalment loan for £5,000 from ELL on 30 December 2015. The 
monthly repayment was £422.01 and the total repayable was £10,128.24.
Mr O says ELL didnt carry out proper affordability checks and had it done so it would not
have lent to him.
Our investigator concluded ELL carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in
the information it gathered that should have led it to make a different lending decision.
Mr O said he repaid much more than our investigator set out and asked for an ombudsman
to review the case. The investigator clarified that in his assessment the amount received
£2043.95 referred to the amount of the loan paid directly to Mr O (£2,956.05 going directly
to one of his credit card providers), not the total Mr O repaid which he agreed was around
£10,130. 
Mr O said he still wanted an ombudsmans review, so the case was passed to me. I reached 
a different conclusion to the investigator, so I issued a provisional decision - an extract 
follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to comment by 18 January 
2022 before I issued a final decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr O to understand his disposable income
before it approved the loan. It asked for his monthly income and used a percentage of
income based on national averages to calculate his living costs. It checked Mr Os credit file
to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. It used copies of
Mr Os recent bank statements to verify his declared income and some of his monthly costs.
It asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. From these checks
combined ELL concluded that Mr O had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan.
I think the checks were proportionate in the circumstances of this case, but I am not
persuaded ELL reacted appropriately to the information it gathered to make its lending
decision. Ill explain why.
From the credit check it carried out I think ELL ought to have realised Mr O was having
problems managing his money and been concerned that any further borrowing would not be
sustainably affordable for him. It could see Mr O had £15,589 of unsecured debt. He was
close to his credit limit on three credit cards, he had opened three new accounts in the last
six months and there were 24 searches on his file in the previous six months. A County
Court Judgment (CCJ) for £1,031 had been registered against him as recently as August
2015. And he had overdrafts on two current accounts totalling £4,418.
I note that part of the loan was to directly settle one of Mr Os existing debts, and it seems
the balance was to settle some of his other lower value debts (it is not clear which ones). But
this was a high cost loan with an APR of 114.7% so Im not satisfied that giving it to Mr O to
in part repay a mainstream credit card provider (to whom he was most likely paying a lower
APR) was not causing financial harm to Mr O. It increased his monthly credit commitments
to a significant percentage of his income, such that I think ELL ought to have realised there
was a risk Mr O would be unable to sustainably repay this loan.
It knew from his bank statements that Mr O was already persistently reliant on his overdraft 
facility on two of his current accounts. And this loan would not have cleared that debt so it 
seems he would have been using debt to enable him to make his repayments. In the round, I 
think ELL focused solely on the pounds and pence affordability and failed to consider the 
overall impact of giving the loan to Mr O. It hasnt evidenced it thought about whether it 
would cause any financial difficulties or adverse consequences for him. And this was 
something it needed to do to meet its obligations under CONC 5.3.1(G) that stated:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC
5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability
to repay the credit. [Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1)
should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse
consequences. [Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
As Ive set out in the evidence above, it was clear Mr O was having problems managing his
money and I think further increasing his indebtedness was most likely to cause adverse
financial consequences for him. It follows I think ELL was wrong to give the loan to Mr O.
I havent found any evidence ELL acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
 
I then set out what ELL would need to do to put things right if I upheld Mr Os complaint.
Both parties responded before the deadline set out in the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
Mr O replied to my provisional decision saying he was happy with the outcome.
ELL disagreed and made a number of points which I will address in turn. It sent an extract 
from the investigators assessment and said that it still agreed with this view that concluded 
there was nothing in ELLs checks that suggested the loan would be sustainably 
unaffordable for Mr O. I acknowledge this opinion; however I issued a provisional decision 
because after looking at the details of the complaint afresh, I didnt agree with the 
investigators findings for the reasons set out above. 
ELL went on to say it had considered my findings that related to the information it saw onMr Os credit file in its affordability evaluation. But I dont think it has evidenced how, and I 
still cant see that it responded responsibly to the data it gathered. 
As I said, Mr O had £15,589 of unsecured debt. He was close to his credit limit on three 
credit cards, he had opened three new accounts in the last six months and there were 24 
searches on his file in the previous six months. A County Court Judgment (CCJ) for £1031 
had been registered against him as recently as August 2015. And he had overdrafts on two 
current accounts totalling £4,418.
I think these facts should have concerned ELL and it ought to have realised there was a risk 
Mr O would be unable to repay the loan sustainably  even if it seemed affordable on a 
pounds and pence basis. The relevant regulatory guidelines (CONC 5.3.1(G)) that set out 
that ELL needed to consider the potentially harmful impact of its lending on Mr O are set out 
above in the extract from my provisional decision. 
In response to my point about taking out a high-cost loan to settle debt that was most likely 
on a lower APR, ELL said it didnt assume what the interest rate would be on alternate 
products and its loan had a fixed term compared to credit card debt which can spiral due to 
being an open line of credit. Given Mr Os circumstances I would have expected ELL to want 
to know the cost of the debt Mr O was planning to settle in order understand if its loan was 
harmful or beneficial to Mr O. This links again to its obligations set out in part 2) of CONC 
5.3.1(G).
It follows that ELLs comments do not change my conclusion that ELL ought to have realised 
from its checks that there was a risk the loan would not be sustainably affordable for Mr O.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr O to repay the capital that he borrowed because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
ELL should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr O
made as payments towards the capital.
As reworking Mr Os loan account will result in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Os credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr O a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Os complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday 
Loans, must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman