DRN-4191542
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) didnt send him an 
authorisation code when he was trying to make a purchase.
What happened
Mr S wanted to buy tickets that went on sale online at 9am on 21 July. He says that after 
being in the queue he was allocated tickets and had a limited time to buy these. He needed 
to receive an authorisation code to complete the purchase. He says he received notification 
on the retailers payment screen stating the system was contacting the bank electronically 
for authorisation but this never came, and the time limit expired. Mr S says this happened on 
three occasions and he missed out on the tickets.
Tesco Bank issued a final response letter. It said it issued an authorisation code for a 
purchase on 21 July, at 8:31am and again at 8:35am. It was unable to locate a third 
authorisation code being sent, which it said indicated the transaction wasn't completed by 
the retailer and no code requested. Tesco Bank said there were no known issues with 
providing customers with authorisation codes on that day.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Tesco Banks response. He said that the tickets went on sale at 
9am and so codes couldnt have been sent before this. He referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator said that Tesco Bank hadnt provided clear evidence that the authorisation 
codes were sent correctly. He didnt think Tesco Bank had properly investigated the 
complaint and noted that it had provided incorrect information about the times the 
authorisation codes were sent (failing to take into account daylight saving time). He 
recommended that Tesco Bank pay Mr S £125 for the distress and inconvenience he had 
been caused.
Tesco Bank provided further evidence following the view and said that its systems showed 
the authorisation codes were sent and entered successfully. It said payment wasnt then 
processed which it couldnt explain but noted it could have been an issue with the retailer. It 
said that the third transaction had since been identified and this was on another persons 
Tesco Bank card. It said that as it had provided evidence the authorisation codes had been 
sent correctly it didnt think it needed to pay compensation.
Mr S thought a higher amount of compensation should be paid.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings were as follows:
The underlying issue complained about is that the required authorisation codes werent 
provided to Mr S and so he wasnt able to complete his transaction. Tesco Bank has 
provided evidence of two authorisation codes being successfully sent. The details provided 
show the transactions being with the retailer Mr S has noted. These are recorded as 
happening on 21 July 2022 at 8.31am GMT and 8.35am GMT which would be 9.31am and 
9.35am UK time. Based on this, I find that Tesco Bank did send the required authorisation 
codes on these two occasions. I cannot say why Mr S didnt receive these in the time frame 
required but as they were sent, I do not find I can say Tesco Bank did anything wrong. Tesco 
Bank has noted a third transaction on another card, I havent considered this further as I do 
not have the details but as I find the authorisation codes were sent on the two occasions, I 
do not find I can uphold this part of the complaint.
However, I do not think that Tesco Bank provided the service it should have when dealing 
with Mr Ss concerns. I say this because it provided information in its final response letter 
about the times the authorisation codes were sent, and this was incorrect (it gave the GMT 
times without explaining this was the case and so the times appeared an hour out). This 
caused confusion and Mr S spent time proving that he wasnt attempting the purchases at 
the time Tesco Bank stated. I have listened to the calls between Mr S and Tesco Bank, and 
he explained on calls on 2 and 3 August that he received calls from Tesco Bank to his 
landline as expected saying the authorisation code would be provided but this was never 
received. On this call the times were again noted as being 8.31am and 8.35am. This wasnt 
properly explained at the time and the adviser suggested this was Mr S error when he said 
he only attempted to purchase the tickets after 9am. I can understand why Mr S felt at this 
point that his concerns werent being properly considered and why he believed Tesco Bank 
was providing incorrect information. I do not find this was the service that should have been 
provided and because of this I think Tesco Bank should pay Mr S compensation.
Our investigator recommended Mr S be paid £125 for the distress and inconvenience he has 
been caused. I understand that Mr S wants a higher amount of compensation in order to buy 
the tickets he had wanted at the now higher price. I do not find that this is reasonable as I 
find that Tesco Bank did send the authorisation codes when requested. However, I think its 
failure to provide accurate information and suggestions that Mr S was incorrect in the times 
he was making the purchases did cause delay in resolving this issue and unnecessary 
upset. As evidence that the codes were provided has now been given, I find that 
compensation is now required only for the service part of this complaint. Based on this I think 
an amount of £100 is reasonable, given the distress and inconvenience Mr S was caused.
In conclusion, while I find the evidence provided supports Tesco Bank sending the 
authorisation codes correctly, I do not think it has provided the service it should have in 
dealing with the concerns raised by Mr S.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision saying that while it wasnt the outcome he had 
wanted he was pleased that the service issues had been noted. He said the event the tickets 
were being bought for had now happened. Mr S clarified that while I said in the provisional 
decision that he received a call from Tesco bank stating that an authorisation code would be 
provided this wasnt right and instead a message appeared on the retailers payment screen 
stating the system was contacting the bank electronically for authorisation which never 
came, and the time limit expired. He said this happened three times. 
Tesco Bank responded to my provisional decision saying that I had confirmed that the 
underlying issue complained about was that the required authorisation codes werent 
provided to Mr S and that it was then found these were provided. It confirmed this was the 
complaint it investigated. It said that the service issues I noted related to complaint handling 
and were separate to Mr S original complaint. As complaint handling isnt within the 
Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction it didnt think I could make a determination in 
regard to this. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr S for the clarification he has provided in regard to the information contained within 
my provisional decision. I can confirm that the clarification doesnt change my decision in 
regard to the provision of the authorisation codes. In this case I find that Tesco Bank did 
provide these and while I cannot say why Mr S didnt receive these within the required 
timeframe, I do not find I can say that Tesco bank did anything wrong in regard to this.
Tesco Bank has said that the service issues I have raised relate to complaint handling and 
arent within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. The service issues I noted 
were that there was incorrect information contained within Tesco Banks final response letter 
and provided on calls with Mr S. While I note that Tesco Bank provided the information 
within the context of dealing with a complaint, I consider that the requirement to explain 
things clearly is a continuation of the provision of the underlying financial service Tesco Bank 
was providing and the expected customer service associated with it. So, I dont find the 
service issues I have noted can be said to be a standalone complaint about complaint 
handling. Because of this I have included them as part of this decision.
The service issues resulted in Mr S not feeling his concerns were being adequately 
addressed and caused unnecessary upset and delay. Because of this, and as I set out in my 
provisional decision, I find that Tesco Bank didnt provide the service it should have and 
because of this it should pay Mr S £100. 
Putting things right
Tesco Bank should pay Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC should take the actions set out above 
in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman