DRN-3274784
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with how Moneybarn No.1 Limited dealt with her request for assistance 
as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
On 3 July 2020, Miss W was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. The agreement was for £5,450 over 60 months; with an initial payment of 
£1,000 and 59 monthly repayments of £178.67.
Miss W says she applied to Moneybarn for a payment deferral, as her income had been 
affected by Covid-19. And, because she didnt hear anything, on 25 February 2021 she 
chased Moneybarn for a response. Moneybarn said they had no record of any application 
being received, and they agreed to put her account on hold while Miss W resubmitted her 
request. They also told her that any missed payments could be reported to the credit 
reference agencies, and the car may be at risk of repossession.
Miss W wasnt happy with Moneybarns response, and she brought her complaint to us for 
investigation. To put things right, Miss W asked for a two-month payment deferral to be 
applied to her account, without her needed to resubmit her application, and without having to 
either repay the missed payments or have the agreement extended.
Our investigator said hed seen no evidence, for example an application or an email or letter 
confirming receipt of an application, to show that Miss W had requested a payment deferral. 
And he thought Moneybarn had acted reasonably by asking Miss W to resubmit her request, 
and by putting her account on hold to give her time to do this.
He also thought Moneybarn had acted reasonably by giving Miss W factual information 
about what could happen if payments were missed. So, he didnt think Moneybarn needed to 
do anything more.
Miss W didnt agree with the investigator. She said that shed provided all of the information 
Moneybarn had asked for and if that had not been provided that is not on me. She also 
thought Moneybarn had acted unprofessionally by not acknowledging her request for a 
payment deferral and by not dealing with her application.
Because Miss W didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss W was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance on 24 April 2020, that 
came into effect on 27 April 2020, about customers who were faced with payment difficulties 
as a result of Covid-19. This allowed financial businesses such as Moneybarn to grant a 
three-month payment deferral to people like Miss W. The guidance said that a firm should 
grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm determines (acting 
reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers interests to do so.
As Moneybarn had an obligation under the guidance to ensure any payment deferral was in 
the customers best interests, Im satisfied that any request must be considered, and not just 
automatically approved. Given this, I dont think that Moneybarn have done anything wrong 
by asking customers to make an application for a payment deferral, providing sufficient 
information for them to make a fair assessment of their circumstances.
Miss W has said that she applied to Moneybarn for a payment deferral. And I dont doubt 
that was the case. But I havent seen anything to show me that Moneybarn ever received 
this application. And I cant say that Moneybarn did something wrong by not actioning 
something they hadnt received.
When Miss W spoke to Moneybarn about this in February 2021, they explained theyd not 
received the application. And they put the account on hold to allow her to resubmit her 
request. For the reasons stated above, Im satisfied that Moneybarn wouldve needed to 
receive an application in order to assess whether a payment deferral was in Miss Ws best 
interests; so I think giving her time to resubmit her request was a reasonable course of 
action. And was what Id have expected them to do.
As Miss W has not resubmitted her request, then Moneybarn havent had an application to 
consider. And, as such, they havent done anything wrong by not agreeing a payment 
deferral for Miss W.
In the phone call she had with Moneybarn, Miss W also told them that she was going to 
cancel her direct debit. As such, Moneybarn explained the potential consequences of doing 
this, and not making payments. Im satisfied this was factual information given at the 
appropriate time and wasnt meant as any form of threat. So, I also dont think Moneybarn 
did anything wrong by providing this to Miss W.
Given the above, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Miss W, as I 
dont think Moneybarn did anything wrong, I wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint about Moneybarn No.1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Andrew BurfordOmbudsman