DRN-2808591
The complaint
Mr Js complaint is about the settlement offered following a claim under his gadget insurance 
policy with Assurant General Insurance Limited. 
What happened
In February 2021, Mr J made a claim for his tablet device which was faulty. Mr J sent the 
device in to be assessed. Assurant says the device was not repairable and so offered a cash 
settlement of £254.98 for Mr J to purchase a replacement device. Mr J was unhappy with 
this and told Assurant that the settlement offer was based on a different specification from 
his device. He is especially concerned about how this was possible given Assurant had the 
device and the IMEI number all along. Mr J says if he had not spent time looking into this, it 
would have gone unnoticed. Mr J also said he had lost the screen saver, which had been 
sent in with the device and he had to pay for the packaging to safely send the device off for 
repair.
Assurant agreed it had based the settlement offer on the wrong specification and apologised 
for this error. It offered a revised settlement of £289 for the device and £75 compensation for 
the delays in dealing with the claim. Assurant also said it would normally deal with the 
accessories claim after the settlement is agreed for the actual device and said it would offer 
£23.97 for the screen saver (which is what it cost Mr J). 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied that Assurants offer was reasonable. Mr J doesnt accept this 
and so the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The primary role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to investigate individual complaints 
between consumers and businesses, where a consumer thinks they have suffered a 
financial loss. We also have the power to award compensation if we think a consumer has 
suffered material distress and inconvenience as a result of a businesss error. However, this 
service does not have a punitive or regulatory function. 
So, while Mr J appears to want more detailed information as why Assurant assessed his 
settlement based on the incorrect specification of his phone, I do not consider that this is 
necessary to fairly determine this complaint. Assurant made an error and promptly rectified 
it. While I accept it would have been frustrating for Mr J, and the error was only rectified after 
he pointed it out, it has been put right as Assurants revised offer would appear to be enough 
to replace his device. Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that it is not enough. 
There was also some delay in settling the claim. It was paid out 17 days after the claim was 
made, which is longer than Assurant says it would normally take. This was in part due to the 
mistake about the specification, which could have been avoided, but also in part due to 
Covid and a back log at the repair centre. Mr J says the offer of £75 does not properly reflect 
the trouble caused to him, including being without his device which he needed for work. Ive 
not seen any independent evidence of any impact on Mr Js ability to work. I agree that some 
compensation is warranted, over and above the settlement of the claim, as Mr J was put to 
some trouble in having to inform Assurant of its error and being without his laptop for longer 
than should have been necessary. However, having considered everything, I am satisfied 
that the offer already made of £75 is reasonable and is also in line with awards made in 
similar cases. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint, as I consider Assurant General Insurance Limited has already 
made a reasonable offer in full and final satisfaction of the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman