DRN-4389278
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) 
has settled their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B booked a tour and part way through their trip, they unfortunately contracted 
Covid-19. They were forced to quarantine for 10 days and missed part of their tour. They 
made a claim to Great Lakes and it settled the claim for some of their costs. 
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with the settlement so they complained and said Great Lakes 
should cover the costs of their unused trip under the cutting short your trip section.  
Great Lakes maintained it had settled the claim properly but it paid £150 for poor service and 
delays. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Great Lakes had incorrectly or 
unfairly settled the claim.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and in summary, said their claim was covered under the Covid-19 
section as they were unable to continue with their travels. And that other people in similar 
situations to theirs had their claims paid.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms under general exclusions says claims relating to COVID-19 arent 
covered unless specifically listed.
Covid-19 cover is specifically listed under section 14. The cancellation and cutting 
short your trip section says:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for either Section 1. 
Cancellation, or Section 2. Cutting Short Your Trip, per insured person for any 
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs (and other prepaid charges) 
which you have paid or are contracted to pay, if you were not able to travel and use 
your booked accommodation or undertake the trip as a result of:
a) you, a close relative, a member of your household, travelling companion 
or any person with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip has a 
diagnosis of COVID-19 in the 14 days prior to your booked departure 
date.
b) you are denied boarding on your pre-booked outbound travel due to you 
contracting COVID-19, or having a confirmed temperature above 38 
degrees Celsius
or where you have to Cut short your trip as a result of:
a) the death as a result of Covid-19
b) the hospitalisation as a result of COVID-19
c) you are unable to continue with a pre-booked excursion following your 
self-isolation as ordered by a relevant Government authority due to 
contracting COVID-19
Having considered the above section in detail, the first part relates to cancellation 
and is only applicable if Mr and Mrs B were not able to start their trip or travel and 
use their booked accommodation. Mr and Mrs B were able to and did travel and they 
did undertake their trip - they were part way through their tour when they were denied 
boarding. But they werent able to continue their travel, which I dont think is covered 
here.  
Mr and Mrs B say they read it as if you were not able to travelor undertake the 
trip. Even if I accept their interpretation that they werent able to travel (but did 
undertake their trip), I dont think any of the reasons set out in this section apply. 
Mr and Mrs B say they were forced to quarantine on their outbound travel to their 
next destination. As outbound travel isnt defined, Ive considered the ordinary 
meaning of outbound travel which is to leave ones country of residence. Mr and Mrs 
B werent leaving their country of residence when they were denied boarding - they 
were part way through their tour, and so I dont think this reason applies. 
Mr and Mrs B say their trip was cut short but they did not cut their trip short as a 
result of any of the listed reasons. 
Mr and Mrs B say other people they travelled with had their claims settled but I can 
only consider Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and circumstances. 
Based on all of the above, there is no cover for Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances under 
the Covid-19 section. So I dont think Great Lakes has unfairly settled the claim. 
For the sake of completeness, I am also satisfied that Great Lakes compensated Mr 
and Mrs B fairly for the poor customer service and delays in dealing with the claim. 
For the length of time involved, I think the sum of £150 is appropriate. And the final 
response letter clearly confirms there was no cover for their circumstances under the 
specific Covid-19 section of their policy. So I cant fairly ask Great Lakes to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman