DRN-1336892
 
The complaint
Miss B complains about the way Zurich Insurance Plc handled a claim she made on her 
buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
On 1 July 2019, Miss B made a claim following an escape of water in her bathroom. Zurich 
appointed various contractors to investigate her claim and put things right. Miss B was told 
shed need to move into alternative accommodation while the works were going on.
During trace and access works, Zurich found black water, which meant the bathroom 
needed to be sanitised.  This work began in mid-August and drying of the bathroom also 
started. The drying contractor said the bathroom was dry on 23 September 2019.
However, due to issues between its contractors, repair works werent scheduled to start until 
28 October 2019. Miss B also experienced some delays in getting the right disturbance 
allowance paid to her, as Zurich incorrectly calculated it at points. And she had to chase up 
new alternative accommodation provision at times during the claim when the hotel she was 
staying in no longer had space for her. So she complained to Zurich about the delays in 
dealing with her claim and about the service shed received.
Zurich accepted thered been some delays in the handling of Miss Bs claim and in arranging 
alternative accommodation for her. So it offered her £350 compensation to recognise this.
Miss B wasnt happy with Zurichs offer. She asked us to look into her complaint. She said 
the works were still going on and her life had been disrupted by her moving between hotels. 
She felt Zurich should pay her compensation of around £1500 for the trouble and upset its 
handling of the claim had caused her.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. He set out a timeline of the 
claim. He thought it was important Zurich completed the work to a high standard. And he 
thought £350 was fair compensation for the delays Miss B had experienced.
Miss B disagreed. She said the works were meant to have been finished by 11th November 
2019, but due to poor service from the contractor, theyd been delayed by a further week. 
She said the delays in paying disturbance allowance had left her in financial difficulty at 
times. She also said there were errors in the timeline the investigator had relied on. She 
asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think the £350 
compensation Zurich has already paid Miss B is fair. Ill explain why.
I asked Zurich to send me its claims notes so I could understand the timeline of events and 
the reasons for the delays in the repairs being done. Having carefully considered the 
records, they appear to be notes Zurich made at each stage of the claims process, following 
contact with both its contractors and Miss B.  So Im satisfied theyre accurate.
Its clear there were delays in the claim being progressed. I think some of those delays were 
unavoidable  such as the discovery of black water, which meant the property needed to be 
sanitised. Some were avoidable  such as the dispute over costs which arose between 
Zurichs contractors. This seems to have delayed the repairs starting for over a month after 
the property was declared dry. I can understand why this mustve been very frustrating for 
Miss B.
I can also see from the notes that Miss B repeatedly needed to call Zurich about arranging or 
extending alterative accommodation. At points, it seems like accommodation was only 
arranged on the day Miss B was due to leave the hotel she was staying in. This mustve 
been worrying and stressful. Its also clear that there were errors in calculating the 
disturbance allowance Miss B was due and delays in making the payments to her. While 
these problems were rectified by Zurich, it seems to me that these were avoidable errors at 
an already stressful time.
So I do think it was right and appropriate for Zurich to pay Miss B compensation for the 
trouble and upset its handling of her claim caused her. But having considered everything, I 
think the compensation its already paid her is fair. I think the payment is sufficient to 
recognise the impact and upset its handling of the claim had on Miss B at an already 
stressful and worrying time. 
I do think though that any insurance claim will cause some degree of inconvenience, 
especially when a policyholder has to move out of their home and into alternative 
accommodation. And while this was undoubtedly stressful, Miss B simply couldnt live in the 
property while the repairs took place. Its unfortunate she experienced issues with the 
arrangement of alternative accommodation. But I can see she was consistently provided with 
accommodation during this period. And she was paid appropriate disturbance allowance 
overall, given her location. I think much of the inconvenience Miss B suffered was down to 
the nature of needing to make an insurance claim. I cant fairly hold Zurich responsible for 
that.
This means overall, I wont be telling Zurich to pay Miss B any more compensation. I think its 
payment is fair and reasonable. And its broadly what I wouldve told it to pay Miss B if it 
hadnt already offered her compensation.
Since bringing the complaint to us, Miss Bs also complained about the further delay of a 
week in getting the repairs finished. And shes also complained about the impact the delay in 
getting the right disturbance allowance paid to her has had on her financial situation. But 
Zurich hasnt had the chance to look into these issues yet, so I cant consider them here. 
Miss B will need to make a new complaint to Zurich about these specific points before were 
potentially able to help her with them. 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman