DRN-1678754
 
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with his Landlord 
Emergency claim and its refusal to pay towards a new boiler.
What happened
Mr E had Landlord Insurance, including Landlord Emergency cover, with UKI. The claim 
relates to his tenanted property. 
Mr E reported a leak from the back boiler but UKI couldnt send someone round within the 
expected timescale. He agreed to find a plumber himself but, because he couldnt, his 
tenants relative helped to stop the leak and capped the gas supply. Mr E called UKI again. 
After experiencing long waiting times to get through and receiving inaccurate information 
about his policy limit, it arranged to send a plumber two days later. Mr Es tenant didnt have 
heating while this matter was ongoing.
The UKI plumber found that the boiler was unsafe and capped the gas at the main supply 
pipe. He reported it to the gas network company and refused to work on the boiler which he 
considered unsafe. There was a heated exchange between Mr E and the plumber.
Mr E asked independent plumbers to look at the boiler. After being told it would cost more to 
repair the boiler than it was worth, he decided to replace the whole system. 
Mr E complained to UKI about its plumber and poor service. UKI agreed it hadnt met its 
expected service level. It paid Mr E £200 by way of apology and reimbursed the cost of the 
heater he had bought for his tenant. UKI also offered £250 towards the cost of replacing the 
boiler but withdrew the offer after investigating the complaint.  
Mr E thought UKI should pay him £1500 which is the policy limit for repairs. UKI explained 
that the boiler was around 20 years old and the policy didnt include cover towards 
replacement boilers. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that UKI had paid a fair amount for 
the service failings. She also noted that the policy didnt cover boiler replacements, so it 
wasnt fair to ask UKI to contribute towards the cost of the new boiler.
Mr E didnt agree. He said UKI refused to repair the boiler, so he had no choice but to 
replace the whole system. He suggested that UKI should at least pay the labour costs.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr E will be disappointed, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, Im aware that Mr E has concerns about a Data Request he made to UKI, but I wont 
be addressing that issue in my decision. Mr E may wish to seek advice from the Information 
Commissioners Office if he isnt sure whether UKI has responded to his request 
appropriately.
There are two key parts to Mr Es complaint  the standard of service and the costs UKI 
should pay under his policy. Ive considered all the information available to me, but my 
decision will focus on these two areas.
Mr E complained about the following service issues:
UKI took a long time to answer his calls.
It failed to return his calls.
UKI gave incorrect information about his policy.
He said UKIs representatives were rude and aggressive.
UKI wouldnt repair his boiler.
These issues are not disputed, but UKI did explain why it wouldnt repair the boiler. It said 
that an unqualified person had worked on the boiler before its plumber attended and it wasnt 
left in a safe state. Mr E doesnt agree but its not for me to decide whether the boiler was 
unsafe. Ive looked at whether it was reasonable under the terms of the policy for UKI to 
refuse to repair Mr Es boiler and I think it was.  A plumber is entitled to refuse to work with a 
gas appliance which they consider unsafe and which has been worked on by an unqualified 
person. I realise Mr E said the work was minimal, but the amount of work undertaken is 
irrelevant if the qualified plumber felt the situation was dangerous. Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for UKI to refuse to repair the boiler and for it to refer the matter to the gas 
network company.
Ive looked at how UKI dealt with the claim and I agree that there were instances when its 
service couldve been better. UKI acknowledged that and paid Mr E £200 for its service 
shortfalls along with a payment to reimburse him for the cost of a heater for his tenant. Im 
satisfied that the payment is fair in recognition of the service shortfalls listed above so I wont 
be asking UKI to pay any more.
Mr E thought UKI should pay towards his replacement boiler. UKI offered and then withdrew 
its offer to contribute towards the replacement boiler.  I can see that UKI made its original 
offer as goodwill after Mr E complained but I dont think the offer was necessary given that it 
also paid compensation for the service shortfalls. After investigating the matter, it withdrew 
its offer. 
Ive looked at the terms of the policy to see whether UKI should contribute to the boiler 
replacement. In the Landlord Emergency General Exclusions, the policy states:
We will not pay any claim relating to the following:
7 Replacement boilers or appliances
The costs, or any contribution towards the costs, of replacing a
boiler, storage heater or any other heating or domestic appliance.
8 Repair is uneconomical
Any repair to a boiler, storage heater or any other heating or
domestic appliance that is more than the cost of replacing it.
Mr Es boiler was over 20 years old and both his plumbers and UKI agreed it was beyond 
repair. Emergency cover isnt intended to cover the cost of a new boiler when an old boiler, which has reached the end of its serviceable life, fails. The terms are clear about this. So, 
although UKI initially made an offer to pay £250 towards the cost of the replacement boiler, I 
dont think it was unfair for it to withdraw the offer. Mr E replaced his boiler - it wasnt 
repaired - so it was reasonable for UKI to refuse payment under his policy.
In summary, Im satisfied that UKI has acknowledged its shortfalls, compensated Mr E 
appropriately and fairly declined his claim under the Landlord Emergency cover.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman