DRN-2031924
 
The complaint
Mr J complains about a default registered on his credit card account by Capital One
(Europe) plc. He initially complained that Capital One wouldnt remove the fault, although
there were extenuating circumstances.
What happened
Mr J was arrested, and spent some time in prison. He said he had no access to his finances
or personal life during this time. So he had no idea his payments to his Capital One credit
card account werent being met or that his card had expired. It wasnt until his release that
he discovered Capital One had defaulted his account. Mr J asked Capital One to remove the
default. It said it would consider this, but then decided not to.
When this case came to our service, Capital One said it still wouldnt remove the default. It
didnt think that it had done anything wrong. It had sent Mr J regular letters reminding him
about payments which were missed, and tried to contact him several times. It had sent the
appropriate notice of default before moving to default the account.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr J did have an
outstanding balance on this account, and shouldve been aware that the account required
attention. Our investigator appreciated that Mr J wasnt receiving his post, but he thought
that there wouldve been an opportunity to address finances either immediately prior to or
during his imprisonment. He thought that the person who held a power of attorney for Mr J
was aware of the card in 2017, but didnt make Capital One aware of their status until well
after the default had been issued.
Mr J said he believed the minimum payment was being made for this card while he was in
prison. And he explained the difficult situation he was in. He said hed acted to rectify the
problem as soon as he became aware of it.
Our investigator didnt change his mind, so this complaint was passed to me for a final
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
When Mr J went into prison, the minimum payment on his card was being met each 
month by direct debit. Mr J said he didnt know why this direct debit payment failed. It 
shouldve kept paying towards the card for all the time that he wasnt able to make 
manual payments. So I asked Capital One what it thought had happened.
Capital One looked again at its records. It had been contacted a couple of times by 
someone else about Mr Js account while he was away. In summer 2017, Capital 
One was contacted by a third party who told it Mr J was in prison. This third party 
said then that they were waiting for authority to deal with Mr Js accounts on his 
behalf. Capital One was contacted again in late 2018, by someone who had power of 
attorney for Mr J.
Capital One says that Mr Js direct debit stopped shortly after the first time it was 
contacted. And it says its policy is to put a block on accounts when it finds out that a 
cardholder is in prison. That block would also cancel the direct debit. So Capital One 
thought that this was probably what had happened in this case. It was possible, if this 
direct debit hadnt been cancelled, that Mr J's account wouldnt have been defaulted. 
So Capital One said it would remove the default. And it offered to pay Mr J £250 in 
compensation. It could no longer reopen the account he used to have, but it said it 
could open a new account for him.
We wrote to Mr J to tell him this, and pass on this offer. Mr J didnt want to just 
accept it. He wrote back to tell us about the impact this had on him.
Mr J stressed how difficult it was for him to be removed entirely from society for some 
time, and the effect this had on him. But being in prison hadnt affected his ability to 
pay. And he noted that Capital One had been less than candid in its responses to 
him. Mr J said that the damage to his reputation and his credit rating had an 
immeasurable impact, as both were extremely important to him. He said he didnt 
know what the reach of this default was, but hed recently been turned down for a 0% 
interest offer overseas.
Mr J said compensation wasnt the main motivation in this case. He felt that there 
should be consequences for an unacceptable business practice. And he stressed 
that restoring his credit record would be the most important thing.
Mr J also said he would be prepared to use Capital One again, but he said that his 
card wouldve been unlikely to go up to the interest rate that Capital One was now 
offering. He doesnt make a habit of borrowing on the card, but it can be useful, and 
he thought Capital One should compromise on the interest rate it was offering him. 
He hoped a way could be found for him to return to Capital One with his reputation 
restored.
I dont think that Capital One deliberately lied to Mr J. I think it just didnt realise, 
before now, that it may have unintentionally caused this default. But I do think that 
Capital One ought to have realised this before it made Mr J ask for the default to be 
removed, and then refused his request. 
Mr J thought that mistakes like this ought to have consequences. But its not the role 
of our service to punish businesses. We arent a regulator. Instead, Ill look to provide 
a fair and reasonable outcome for Mr J.
I note that Mr J has said that it would be useful still to have access to the lower 
interest rate that was on his old credit card account. But hes also said that he 
doesnt have any real need for credit card borrowing. Capital One says it cant 
reopen his old card, and it doesnt offer this sort of rate now. Thats not something 
that Capital One can easily change. And I dont think it would provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint to require Capital One to offer a new credit 
card product solely for Mr J. So instead Ill leave it to Mr J to decide whether he 
wants to reapply for a card with Capital One, or would prefer to take up other
options once his credit file is restored. And Ill take account of what Mr J has lost with 
the closure of this account, when I consider compensation in this case.
Mr J has said that the most important thing for him is to have his reputation and credit 
file restored. Capital One has said it will remove the default from Mr Js credit file. Im 
not sure this will affect credit applications overseas, but it will affect applications made in the UK. So I will include that in my award. And Ill also ask Capital One to 
remove any late payment markers which may have been placed on Mr Js file from 
August 2017 onwards, when it blocked Mr Js card. Capital One should ensure that 
Mr Js card account shows as closed and fully settled on the date that it has 
previously been recorded as defaulted.
I also think that Capital One should pay Mr J some compensation in this case. Its 
offered £250, but I dont think thats quite the right amount to make up for whats 
gone wrong here. As well as the upset of discovering a default on his credit file, Mr J 
has had to repeatedly explain a difficult set of circumstances to Capital One, to ask it 
to put right the default. He then had to deal with the stress of its refusal and this 
subsequent complaint, at what is already a stressful time for him. None of this 
shouldve been necessary. And of course if he does need to use a card for borrowing 
in future, he will no longer have access to the advantageous rate his old card carried. 
For those reasons, I think that Capital One should pay Mr J £500 in compensation, to 
make up for whats gone wrong in this case. I think that would provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Capital One hasnt replied. Mr T replied with some further observations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J just wanted to make two further comments. He said that the friend who had represented 
him was upset that Mr J might think he hadnt passed on important information from Capital 
One about his account to Mr J. Hes assured Mr J that he wasnt given this information. Mr J 
thought that he couldve been given some indication that it was important that Mr J contact 
Capital One, without breaching data protection. 
And Mr J said that Capital Ones policy of closing accounts when someones in prison made 
it into judge and jury. He thought the main issue was whether payments were being met, 
which they were in his case.
 
Mr J said he wouldnt want to delay finalising this case for a response on these points, so 
Ive not asked Capital One about them. They wouldnt change my view of the appropriate 
outcome in this case. 
I still think the outcome I suggested is fair and reasonable. So Ill now make the award I 
originally proposed. My final decision
My final decision is that Capital One (Europe) plc must ensure Mr Js credit file is amended 
to remove any late payments made onto this card account from August 2017, and to show 
the account as closed and fully settled at the date it was previously shown as defaulted. 
Capital One (Europe) plc must also pay Mr J £500 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman