DRN-2004491
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him several payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
This complaint is about two mortgage PPI policies. The first was taken out in 2000 when Mr 
H was applying for a mortgage with the bank. The second was taken out in 2001 when Mr H 
was also applying for a mortgage, and it was extended to cover some additional borrowing 
he took out in 2002. The policies were taken out in one of the banks branches when Mr H 
was applying for his mortgages and the second extended during a phone call with the 
relevant paperwork completed after this. The policies provided Mr H with cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case. If there is missing or contradictory 
information  as here  then Ive reached my decision based on what I think most likely to 
have happened given the evidence I do have and the wider circumstances.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr Hs main complaint is that he doesnt think the bank gave him enough information about 
the costs of the policies and the commission the bank was going to earn from the sales. He 
says he had good work benefits at the time and wouldnt  especially if hed known about the 
commission  have bought the policies. 
Mr H also says it was implied hed get a quicker decision (in his favour) on the mortgage 
applications if he bought the policies. So he doesnt think it was made clear the PPI was 
optional, rather than compulsory.
Ill look at this point first. Given these policies were sold in face to face meetings or, (when 
the second one was extended) over the phone, I cant be sure what was said or discussed. 
But we do know a lot about how these policies were sold, and Ive seen the paperwork 
provided by Lloyds.
There isnt much detail from the sale of the first policy in 2000. Thats understandable as this 
mortgage was repaid only a couple of years later. I wouldnt expect either party to keep 
paperwork indefinitely. 
Having looked the information I do have, I can see that on Mr Hs application theres a box 
ticked to say Mr H wanted the PPI  and Mr H hasnt said he didnt agree to this. For the 
mortgage in 2001 Mr H has signed separately to confirm he wanted the PPI. 
I cant see anything that implies that the PPI is compulsory, so I dont think Mr H could have 
thought he had to have the PPI in order to get either mortgage. 
On balance I think the bank made him aware that PPI was optional and he chose to take it 
out on each occasion.
The bank has accepted that it advised Mr H to take out the policies and it doesnt look like 
they were unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time of 
each sale  these were largely unchanged between late 2000 and early 2002, when the first 
and last sales took place. I say this because:
- Mr H was eligible for the policies given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.  
- Mr H had work related benefits, including sick pay and a pension. Ive compared what 
hes told us about these to the benefits the PPI could have provided. To do that Ive 
borne in mind that the PPI policies are aimed at supporting Mr H if he couldnt work over 
a period (or periods) of up to 12 months. They arent meant for situations where Mr H 
couldnt ever work again because of, say, a disability  although I accept Mr Hs pension 
would have helped here. The PPI policies would have paid out in addition to Mr Hs work 
related benefits and could do so, it seems, for longer than his guaranteed benefits. 
Having the policy in place would mean Mr H could use his work-related benefits and 
savings to pay for other expenses. This would probably have been important when the 
policy was sold given that Mr H was solely responsible for repaying the mortgage. I think 
Mr H would have had some use for the policy despite his existing arrangements. 
- Mr H wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Mr H 
needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- The first policy cost about £24 a month. The second started at £35 a month and 
increased to just under £50 a month when Mr Hs mortgage increased. Each covered the 
monthly mortgage payment and an extra £3 per £1,000 borrowed. 
- I cant be sure exactly when the costs and potential benefits were set out for Mr H. But 
its likely he would have known broadly what he was paying, especially as he signed 
separate direct debit mandates for the second policy and the increase. The payments 
were collected from his bank account separately from his mortgage payments. If Mr H 
didnt recognise the payments when they were collected I think it reasonable he would 
query this with his bank  but hes not said he did that. Ive seen nothing to suggest it 
was unaffordable or that the benefit was insufficient to meet his monthly mortgage 
repayments.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the policies and so appears to have wanted this type of cover. As Ive already said Mr H wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policies seem to have been affordable, I think it unlikely Mr H would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would still have 
taken out the policies.
Mr H says the PPI was added to his mortgage and hell have paid extra interest because of 
this. But these policies werent added to his mortgage  instead the premiums would have 
been collected separately. So there wouldnt be any additional interest to pay. Ive checked 
the records from the bank and these show the policies were cancelled within a couple of 
years of them being taken out, when Mr H moved his mortgage to another provider.
Mr H also says there have been some recent court cases that support his view that the 
policies were mis-sold, or the whole lending relationship became unfair because of the 
undisclosed commission. I dont know the details of those cases, and I can only look at the 
specific circumstances of Mr Hs complaint when reaching my decision. I can however say 
that this service is satisfied that, were legislation requires, Lloyds has been refunding 
commission appropriately. If that legislation changes Id expect Lloyds to continue this 
approach. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman