DRN-3334242
The complaint
Mr D and Mr S complain that Amtrust Europe Limited sent sensitive personal information to 
a third party without their consent.
All references to Amtrust include the actions of its appointed agents. 
What happened
Mr D and Mr S made a claim on Mr Ds fathers legal expenses policy, to support a claim 
against their employer for discrimination based on sexuality. The insurer for the family legal 
claims section of the policy is Amtrust. During the claim Amtrust accidently sent some 
information about the claim to Mr Ds fathers email address, rather than Mr Ds. The claim 
information revealed Mr D and Mr S sexuality, which Mr Ds father hadnt previously been 
aware of. 
Mr D made a complaint as he said his personal data had been shared without his consent 
and this had created an awkward situation in the home they all share, which had been very 
distressing for him and Mr S. He also made a complaint to the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO).
Amtrust upheld his complaint. It said it accepted it had made an error by sending the 
information to the wrong email address. And it offered £100 compensation to apologise for 
the distress this had caused.
Mr D and Mr S didnt think this was enough compensation to recognise the impact the matter 
had had on them. They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He recommended Amtrust pay an 
additional £100 compensation to make up for the distress its error had caused. 
Mr D and Mr S didnt accept this. They said Amtrust had passed on information about a 
protected characteristic and had therefore breached the European Convention on Human 
Rights (ECHR). They asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As an informal alternative to the courts, it isnt the role of this service to determine whether 
Amtrust has breached its obligations under the ECHR. Thats a matter for the courts. Nor is it 
our role to punish a business for a data breach. Instead its for us to identify if Amtrust got 
something wrong and decide if its done enough to put things right. 
Amtrust has admitted it made an error by sending information to the wrong email address, so 
its clear it got something wrong here. Its offered £100 compensation to make up for this 
error, Ive thought about whether this is fair in the circumstances.
Ive considered what Mr D and Mr S have told us about the distress this error caused. I 
understand it has made the situation in the house they all share awkward. And it has been 
upsetting for them both as Mr D hadnt told his father about his sexual orientation. I agree 
this would have caused them both distress. Based on this, I agree with our investigator that 
Amtrust should pay an additional £100 compensation on top of the £100 already offered for 
this complaint. As this is in line with this services approach to other cases of a similar 
nature.  
I understand Mr D and Mr S feel they should be awarded a greater amount, due to the fact 
their sensitive personal data has been passed on without their consent. But I can only 
consider the impact of the error Amtrust made, rather than deciding if there has been a data 
breach, as that is a matter for the ICO. And based on everything Ive seen, I consider this a 
proportionate award in the circumstances.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I require Amtrust Europe Limited to pay Mr D and Mr S an 
additional £100 compensation, in addition to the £100 it has already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman