DRN-2289343
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how Nationwide Building Society handled his request for a large cash 
withdrawal.
What happened
On 1 April 2020, Mr M contacted a local Nationwide branch to close his current account. He 
explained that he wanted to withdraw the balance, around £42,000, in cash. But the branch 
manager wouldnt agree to the request.
 
Mr M was unhappy so, over the course of several phone calls, he complained to Nationwide. 
In summary, he said he felt as if Nationwide was in control of his finances and as though he 
had to provide a reason why he needed the cash. He said this wasnt right, and he didnt 
think he had to provide any reason for wanting to close his account or take his money out as 
cash.
 
During one call, Nationwides representative arranged for Mr M to collect £15,000 in cash 
from one of its larger branches. Mr M was happy with this aspect of Nationwides service  
but he remained dissatisfied with the general way in which his initial request had been 
handled.
 
Nationwide sent its final response to Mr M on 5 May 2020. It said it had to balance the need 
to maintain essential services alongside staff and customer safety. And, as part of measures 
it had taken to adapt to the Covid-19 pandemic, it was ensuring only essential branch visits 
took place. Further, Nationwide explained Mr Ms request exceeded the amount which can 
generally be withdrawn on any given day so  even putting the pandemic measures aside  
his request wasnt one Nationwide would normally accommodate.
 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service because he remained unhappy. An investigator 
here considered what had happened, but he didnt think Nationwide had acted 
unreasonably. He said that, from what hed seen, Mr M hadnt provided a specific reason for 
needing the amount of cash hed requested  and he was satisfied that Nationwide had tried 
to offer different solutions, such as; arranging for a third party to assist him, transferring the 
funds to another account or sending a cheque. Further, the investigator said Nationwide had 
acted in-line with the terms and conditions of the account. So, overall, he didnt think the 
building society had acted unfairly.
 
In response to the investigators opinion, Mr M said hed asked on several occasions for 
Nationwide to provide a copy of the terms and conditions which hed signed. Hed not 
received this, so he didnt think Nationwide could provide it and  as such  it couldnt be 
proven that hed agreed to the terms. Mr M also said he shouldve been able to close his 
account and withdraw the funds as cash if he likes  because its his money, not 
Nationwides.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from the outset that Mr M feels very strongly about his complaint. Ive summarised 
things in far less detail  and I may not have commented on everything Mr M has raised. I 
dont mean any discourtesy by this. Rather, my summary of Mr Ms concerns reflects the 
informal nature of our service.
Turning to the matter at hand, Mr M wanted to close his account and withdraw the balance  
around £42,000  in cash. To arrange the withdrawal, Mr M called a local branch and spoke 
with the manager. Ive not been provided with a recording of that conversation, but I do have 
sight of Nationwides contact notes and Mr Ms testimony.
 
Nationwides contact notes indicate that Mr M told the branch manager he wasnt planning 
on spending any of the money. It seems he simply said he wanted to keep the money at 
home.
After some general discussion, the branch manager refused Mr Ms request due to being 
concerned over his security. They offered to close the account and send Mr M a cheque 
instead, but Mr M wasnt happy with that alternative or the explanation. Instead, he felt 
Nationwide were asking him to provide a specific reason why he wanted to withdraw a large 
amount in cash  which he didnt think appropriate. Ive also seen Mr M told Nationwide that 
his safety was none of its business.
 
I know Mr M was disappointed with how the branch manager handled his request but, 
looking objectively, I dont think their actions were unreasonable in the circumstances. Mr M 
doesnt appear to have had a crucial need for such a large amount of cash, and theres 
nothing to suggest he was expecting any significant outgoings at the time  or that he was in 
any financial difficulty. Mr M simply wanted the cash to keep at home, so I can understand 
why the branch manager may have been concerned about his security. 
Moreover, its important to remember that  at the time of Mr Ms request  Nationwide was 
adjusting to the Covid-19 pandemic. Keeping that in mind, I dont think it was unreasonable 
of Nationwide to offer customers alternative methods of banking to try and restrict non-
essential branch visits  particularly given Mr M has said he was supposed to be shielding. 
Ive seen Nationwide arranged for steps to be taken so a trusted third party could collect 
cash for Mr M; it offered to transfer his money elsewhere, and it helped set up online 
banking. All of which I think were feasible options given Mr M didnt appear to have a specific 
need for large amounts of cash.
I appreciate Mr M wasnt happy with those options, and that he sees this as a very simple 
issue. Its his money, and he should be able to do with it as he pleases. Broadly speaking, 
thats true, the money is indeed his. But while Mr M may disagree, I dont think theres 
anything inherently unfair in Nationwide taking steps to protect itself and its customers  
ensuring their security and wellbeing.
  
I say that because Nationwide has a duty to do so. And if it can take measures to be sure its 
customers arent, for example, potential victims of fraud or a scam, then I think thats a 
practical course of action. Further, I dont think it was unreasonable of Nationwide to take 
measures in order to prevent non-essential branch visits during a pandemic  or for the 
branch manager to have this in mind when dealing with Mr Ms request.
Nationwides website sets out that customers can arrange large cash withdrawals by giving 
notice and providing identification when they collect their money. And following his initial 
request Im aware Mr M was ultimately able to collect £15,000 in cash from a larger branch, 
which he was happy with. But, for all the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied Nationwide handled his initial request reasonably in the circumstances and I dont require it to do 
anything more.
 
Aside from the cash withdrawal, Mr M has said on several occasions that he doesnt believe 
hes bound by the general terms and conditions of his current account. As part of its 
submission to this service, Nationwide has provided a copy of Mr Ms current account 
application from 2013. I can see that the first sentence of the declaration reads:
I/We have read and agree to the terms and conditions
Mr M has signed the declaration, so it follows that Im satisfied hes bound by the terms and 
conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman