DRN-3011458
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly lent to her
when they increased her credit limit from £8,500 to £12,500.
Mrs W is represented by her husband in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs W herself.  
What happened
Mrs W had a Barclaycard with a credit limit of £8,500. On 21 June 2016 Barclaycard
increased her credit limit to £12,500. Mrs W contacted Barclaycard on 3 and 10 October
2017 to inform them that she had lost her job and could only afford to pay Barclaycard £80
per month with her husbands help.
As the payments were less than the contractual monthly payments, the account ended up
defaulting. Barclaycard wrote to Mrs W in August 2020 to explain to her that they may have
set her credit limit higher than they shouldve done. Mrs W complained to Barclaycard. She
said that they had set her credit limit too high and that the high credit limit was the reason
the account defaulted.
Barclaycard upheld Mrs Ws complaint. They apologised and offered her £75 compensation.
Barclaycard said that although the credit limit was set higher than intended, they felt the way
the account had been managed showed the credit limit set was not irresponsible. They
explained there was nothing on Mrs Ws credit file which suggested she was having financial
difficulty at the time of the credit limit increase. Barclaycard said they used a credit reference
agency to provide them with details about a best view of Mrs Ws income, existing credit
commitments, housing costs, essential spend and disposable income.
Mrs W brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld Mrs Ws complaint. He
said that it was irresponsible for Barclaycard to increase her credit limit by nearly 50%. He
said that the increase in her credit limit resulted in higher minimum monthly payments of
around £131 and if Barclaycard had requested her bank statements then they would have
seen her income was made up of benefits and tax credits. Our investigator said the checks
Barclaycard did were not proportionate to the credit limit increase. He said that it would be a
fair outcome if Barclaycard paid Mrs W the £75 which theyd previously offered, refunded all
of the interest and charges from the date the credit limit increased from £8,500 to £12,500.
Our investigator said this would be from 21 June 2016 up to the date the card was closed,
remove all adverse information added by Barclaycard to Mrs Ws credit file in relation to the
Barclaycard from 21 June 2016 and to pay Mrs W 8% simple interest per year on the
refunded amounts, calculated from the date these were originally paid, until the date the
refunds were made.
Barclaycard said they agreed with some of our investigators recommendations. They
agreed the increase to the credit limit should not have taken place. They also agreed to pay
Mrs W £75 compensation which they previously offered, along with the interest on any
balances higher than £8,500, from 21 June 2016 to date, with 8% on anything that is owed
to Mrs W after refunding the amount back to the account. But they said they wanted an
Ombudsman to review the complaint as Mrs W had lost her job and she said she could only
afford £80 for her Barclaycard repayments a month, this was not enough to satisfy the
repayments prior to the credit limit increase, so the negative information recorded with the
credit reference agencies would still have stood. It is for this reason they dont think it would
be responsible of them to remove the information recorded with the credit agencies, as they
said it was not the increase of the credit limit from £8,500 to £12,500 that led to the late
payments and default and this wouldve happened regardless.  
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Barclaycard have said they shouldnt have increased Mrs Ws credit limit, the only thing I
need to consider here is how Barclaycard should put things right for Mrs W. Our investigator
suggested that Barclaycard refund all of the interest and charges from the date the credit
limit increased from £8,500 to £12,500. This would be from 21 June 2016 up to the date the
card was closed. But Barclaycard said they would agree to refund any interest that Mrs W
had paid on any balances higher than £8,500 from 21 June 2016 to date. Barclaycard say
the adverse credit information should stand whereas Mrs W wants this to be removed from
her credit file.
What I would expect Barclaycard to do here is to put Mrs W back in the same position that
she was in before the credit limit was increased. So Ive considered whats likely to have
happened on the balance of probabilities had Barclaycard not increased Mrs Ws credit limit.
Barclaycard have said that because Mrs W told them in October 2017 that she lost her job
and offered to pay them £80 a month as thats all she could afford with her husbands help,
that the account would have defaulted anyway as the £80 monthly payment would be less
than the minimum monthly payment when her account had a £8,500 credit limit.
I asked Mrs W for further information about when she lost her job and if she had since found
work, as our investigator had suggested to Barclaycard that had Mrs Ws credit limit not have
been increased then she could have made extra payments to bring the balance down. Mrs
W said that she actually stopped working on 1 September 2016 and has been a stay at
home mum since then. Mrs W said she continued to make the monthly minimum payments
until it was simply impossible to keep up with them and thats when she contacted
Barclaycard.
Ive looked at Mrs Ws Barclaycard statements. The last statement which shows the £8,500
credit limit required a minimum monthly payment of £174.19. The two statements before this
had minimum monthly payments of £156.03 and £143.92. From the statements Ive looked
at Mrs W hasnt paid more than the minimum monthly payment. So I am persuaded that Mrs
W would not have been in a position to make the minimum monthly payment even if her
credit limit hadnt been increased.
I say this as Mrs W was already suffering from financial difficulties and had lost a source of
income through employment which wasnt replaced. I explained to Mrs W Barclaycards
position that she wouldnt have been able to avoid the default from happening even if the
credit limit had stayed at £8,500. Mrs W doesnt believe this is accurate as she believes that
if she hadnt been trying to keep up with the higher monthly payments then she wouldve had
the time to resolve her financial difficulties to continue making the payments on the original
£8,500 credit limit. She believes that it was the higher payments that resulted in a much
shorter time scale to resolve the issue.Ive thought about what Mrs W has said here. I am persuaded that had the credit limit not
have increased then she would have been able to maintain a minimum monthly payment of
around £170 for longer then when the credit limit was £12,500 and she needed to make a
minimum monthly payment of around £270  assuming that this surplus money was not
spent on other bills which she may have been struggling with at the time. But while this may
have bought her more time for her finances to improve, I believe the account would have
defaulted anyway if the credit limit was £8,500, but just at a later date.
I say this as the £80 monthly offer was less than half of the minimum monthly payment when
her limit was £8,500. Ive considered that Mrs W also hasnt replaced her income from when
she was employed, so her individual financial situation doesnt appear to have improved
since she stopped working. And Ive also seen that Mrs W is currently paying £100 a month
towards the outstanding debt which she had with Barclaycard. So while Mrs W has
increased the amount she pays on a monthly basis from £80 to £100 to reduce the
outstanding balance quicker, the current £100 a month is still much lower than the minimum
monthly payment she would need to make had her credit limit not increased. As Mrs W has
only complained about the increase of her credit limit from £8,500 to £12,500 and has not
complained about irresponsible lending before the credit limit was increased then I can only
consider that the £80 monthly payment wouldnt have prevented a default even if the credit
limit wasnt increased here.
Barclaycard have a duty to report activity accurately to credit agencies. Barclaycard
registered a default as Mrs W was unable to make her monthly payments for a significant
amount of time. And as Ive already mentioned it is unlikely that a default could have been
avoided even if Barclaycard did not increase Mrs Ws credit limit. So although Mrs W will be
disappointed, I dont think its reasonable for Barclaycard to remove the default from her
credit file based on the reasons Ive already given.
Our investigator has suggested Barclaycard refund Mrs W all of the interest and charges
from the date the credit limit increased from £8,500 to £12,500 and to pay Mrs W 8% simple
interest per year on the refunded amounts, calculated from the date these were originally
paid, until the date the refunds are made. But Im not persuaded this is fair. I say this as Mrs
W should be put in a position she would have been in if Barclaycard had not increased her
credit limit. And this would include her paying interest on her outstanding balance up to the
£8,500 credit limit. So, Im persuaded that it would be fair for Barclaycard to refund the
interest and charges applied to the balance over £8,500, from 21 June 2016 to the date of
any final decision, with 8% on anything that is owed to Mrs W after refunding the amount
back to the account. Barclaycard should also pay her the £75 they originally offered Mrs W.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. Barclaycard did not reply to my provisional decision. Mrs W replied and said that 
she was disappointed I didnt intend to ask Barclaycard to remove the default from her credit 
file, as she said she never missed a payment when the limit was £8,500, but she would 
accept the provisional decision with a certain amount of disappointment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mrs W has said about removing the adverse credit information as 
she never missed a monthly payment when the credit limit was £8,500. But in my provisional 
decision I did consider what would likely happen on the balance of probabilities if the credit 
limit stayed at £8,500. Im still persuaded that the following would have likely happened:I believe the account would have defaulted anyway if the credit limit was £8,500, but just at 
a later date.
I say this as the £80 monthly offer was less than half of the minimum monthly payment when
her limit was £8,500. Ive considered that Mrs W also hasnt replaced her income from when
she was employed, so her individual financial situation doesnt appear to have improved
since she stopped working. And Ive also seen that Mrs W is currently paying £100 a month
towards the outstanding debt which she had with Barclaycard. So while Mrs W has
increased the amount she pays on a monthly basis from £80 to £100 to reduce the
outstanding balance quicker, the current £100 a month is still much lower than the minimum
monthly payment she would need to make had her credit limit not increased. As Mrs W has
only complained about the increase of her credit limit from £8,500 to £12,500 and has not
complained about irresponsible lending before the credit limit was increased then I can only
consider that the £80 monthly payment wouldnt have prevented a default even if the credit
limit wasnt increased here.
My final decision and reasoning remain the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mrs 
W will be disappointed with the decision not to remove the adverse credit information from 
her credit file, but I hope she understands my reasons.
  
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intended to ask Barclaycard to refund interest and charges 
applied to the balance over £8,500 from the 21 June 2016 to the date of any final decision.
If at any period this resulted in Mrs Ws account being in credit, pay 8 per cent simple annual
interest on the date that balance arose to the date of settlement; and pay Mrs W £75 as they 
had previously offered. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given 
previously.
 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard should:
Refund interest and charges applied to the balance over £8,500 from the 21 June 2016 to
the date of any final decision;
If at any period this resulted in Mrs Ws account being in credit, pay 8 per cent simple annual
interest on the date that balance arose to the date of settlement; and
Pay Mrs W £75 as they had previously offered.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman