DRN-2100798
The complaint
Mrs Gs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on her behalf 
that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Nationwide Building Society.   
In short, the CMC said:
The investment represented too much risk, as the investment outcome was 
dependent on one fund manager. 
The investment exposed Mrs G to unnecessary cost. 
What happened
In 2002, Mrs G was advised to invest £14,000 in a stocks and shares ISA following a review 
of her (and her husbands) finances. Mrs G hadnt used any of her tax allowance for that 
year. 
She was advised to invest in The High-Income Fund (the fund), which Nationwide says 
was a low-risk and low charge fund, which aimed to produce a high level of income 
consistent with long-term preservation of capital. I note the fund was invested in interest 
bearing securities issued by governments and worldwide companies.  
It was recorded that Mrs G was in her mid-50s, self-employed, and owned her property 
outright. It was also established that she wanted to invest for the longer term as she had 
access to funds. 
Overall, shes invested a total of £21,000 between 2001 and 2005, and the ISA has been 
transferred twice since.   
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
The evidence showed that Mrs G was involved in a detailed discussion about her 
objectives and preferences leading her to invest in the ISA.
Mrs G was able to take a proportionate and considered risk with a relatively low 
amount of her savings to try and meet her objective for income. 
The advice offered was tailored to this aim and ensured that she didn't take too great 
a risk. 
It doesnt agree that suitable advice wouldve been to spread Mrs Gs contributions 
between low-cost funds in different asset classes, with an overall asset allocation in 
line with her attitude to risk. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Mrs Gs primary objective for investing was to increase her income. 
It was recorded that she had a relatively large amount of money deposited with 
Nationwide  £58,500 in a joint account with her husband  and required a product 
that provided her with additional income from these monies. 
Mrs G was willing to take a risk with her capital in order to achieve a higher income. 
She was described as having a balanced approach to risk and the fund 
recommendation wasnt too risky and was in line with Mrs Gs attitude to risk and 
investment objective. 
It was recorded in the fact find:
oI am recommending the CAT Marked Maxi Equity High Income ISA to 
provide a variable level of income with a lower level of risk to your investment 
than other Equity ISA funds. Income can be paid out or accumulated. If 
income is accumulated it will be added to your investment and thus provides 
for potential growth over the long term i.e. over at least five years. 
The financial report would suggest that Mrs G was more interested in the desire to 
obtain a higher level of income overall, with an understanding that this comes with a 
higher risk. 
The fund primarily used fixed interest and corporate bond holdings to generate the 
income which the fund produced. So, she doesnt accept the CMCs suggestion that 
Mrs Gs contributions shouldve been spread between low-cost funds in different 
asset classes. 
The Illustration documents provided at the time contains a section explaining the 
charges applicable and the effect of these on the investment, so Mrs G wouldve 
been aware of these.  
The CMC disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. It said:
Mrs G (name anonymised) does not accept what you have said. We do not feel that the 
excessive risk and cost points have been addressed properly. There is no doubt that, in 
advising her to invest all of her contributions in a single managed fund, Nationwide exposed 
Mrs G (name anonymised) to higher risk and costs than was necessary or appropriate.
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to say 
that the advice to invest in the stocks and shares ISA (and invest in the fund) was 
unsuitable.
I note that Mrs Gs main objective was to increase her income, and to do this Im satisfied 
that she was willing to take a risk (and possibly a higher risk) to achieve her objective. 
I note that she was in her mid-50s, married and self-employed. I also note that she owned a 
property (with her husband) outright, so overall, she was in a good position to invest. There 
was no suggestion that she couldnt make up her own mind regarding her finances.   Mrs G had access to £58,500 from which she was prepared to tie up a large portion of her 
money for the longer term. I note Nationwide says that she only wanted to keep £5,000  for 
her and her husbands holiday and sundry items  and had access to other money. I also 
note that she hadnt previously invested in an ISA, so I cant say the recommendation to 
invest in the ISA was unsuitable. Evidently, Mrs G wasnt content with keeping her money in 
a deposit account and didnt want to consider a savings plan.  
In the circumstances, Im cant say that Mrs G wasnt willing to take a risk with a portion of 
her money to try and achieve her objective. Im aware that she wasnt a first-time investor or 
without investment experience. I note she had £22,000 in a with-profits bond and £4,500 in a 
PEP. In the circumstances Im satisfied she had capacity to replace any loses.  
Despite what the CMC says about the fund, I note that the recommendation was made on 
the basis that itd provide a variable level of income, with a lower risk to her investment than 
other equity ISA funds. Im unable to say theres anything wrong with that. And I note there 
was no fixed term for the investment in case Mrs G needed her money. 
I also note the fund primarily used fixed interest and corporate bond holdings to generate an 
income. So, Im unable to say that Mrs Gs contributions shouldve instead been spread 
between low-cost funds in different asset classes, with an overall asset allocation in line with 
her attitude to risk, or that just because they werent the recommendation is unsuitable for 
Mrs G.  
Even though Mrs G was assessed to be a balanced investor, she was advised to invest in a 
fund which was a low risk (and low charge) which aimed to produce a high level of income 
consistent with long-term preservation of capital. 
Im mindful of the points the CMC makes about the costs, but Im satisfied that the 
documentation provided made reasonably clear the position regarding costs. I also note that 
Mrs G was a little grumpy about the costs of her existing investments and therefore had an 
opportunity to raise any issue if she was unhappy with the costs for this investment.  
Nationwide has provided copies of the illustrations which were given to Mrs C at the point of 
sale. I understand that these follow a common format in use at that time, and contain a 
section explaining the charges applicable and the effect of these on the investment. So, I am 
satisfied Mrs C was made aware of these rather than the costs being hidden. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman