DRN-3901986
The complaint
Mr C complains that Future Wealth Management (FWM) invested his pension funds through 
Horizon Stockbroking Ltd (HS) into high-risk investments.
At the time of the investment FWM was an appointed representative of Pi Financial Ltd (Pi).
What happened
Mr C received advice from a third party in 2013 to transfer various pensions into a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). The SIPP was opened and his pensions transferred in
summer 2013.
Mr C says he was introduced to FWM by an adviser who had arranged mortgages and
insurances for him and family members in the past (DG). An introducer agreement between 
DG, Pi and FWM was signed on 15 January 2015. A SIPP New Financial Adviser 
Declaration was signed by FWMs adviser (HY) referring to FWM and its FCA reference 
number and was received by the SIPP administrators in late January 2015. The SIPP 
administrator confirmed FWM became Mr Cs new adviser on the SIPP in January 2015.
An FWM fact find was completed. Its undated but it refers to Mr Cs last years income in 
2014 which indicates it was completed in 2015.
In November 2015, Mr C invested £35,000 (the majority of his funds) through HS into 
investments including contracts for difference (CFD) which are high risk. The HS application 
form notes HY as his financial adviser.
Mr C complained to Pi in 2019. They rejected his complaint explaining that they had no 
records of Mr C being a client of Pi or that there was any evidence FWM gave advice to 
invest through HS.
Mr C referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators upheld Mr Cs complaint. 
holding Pi responsible for the advice given to Mr C to invest in HS and into high risk CFDs 
which he considered to be unsuitable.
Pi disagreed. In summary they said:
Mr C was not their client and that being the financial adviser on the SIPP didnt mean 
they gave advice on the investment.
Investment decisions could have been made independently by Mr C or on advice by 
a third party (for example DG or HS).
Pi received no remuneration for any transactions for Mr C.
DG was an adviser who routinely referred clients to HS and they assumed it was him 
who gave Mr C advice.
DG completed the fact find, conducted the whole advice process, set up the dealing 
account and controlled all communications with the SIPP and HS. He had free 
access to HYs office and obtained-with or without HYs consent- FWMs stationary.
This isnt an isolated case and was reported to the regulator. DG abused his 
friendship with HY.
DG worked as an agent for a regulated firm. So in Pis view any claim should be 
made either to that firm (for DGs actions) or to the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme about HSs action who are in liquidation.
Pi is taking legal action against DG for acting outside the introducer agreement, 
advising clients, using the Pi logo without consent and passing himself off as being 
an adviser of FWM/Pi.
The investigator didnt change his mind and as no agreement could be reached the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld Mr Cs complaint. I invited both parties for 
any further comments or evidence they wanted me to consider.
As requested in my provisional decision, Mr C provided evidence around the current status 
of his SIPP. He provided a SIPP statement which shows the SIPP is still open and he hasnt 
made any withdrawals. He had no further comments.
Pi did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have received no further comments or evidence which gives me reason to depart from the 
findings in my provisional decision. I repeat them below.
Theres no dispute that DG was involved here. Mr C said it was him who he was in contact
with throughout and that he never met HY. Theres no evidence who exactly-if anyone- gave
Mr C formal advice to invest in Horizon. I havent seen a suitability report and its possible
that any recommendation was only given verbally. I acknowledge its quite possible that DG
promoted the investment to Mr C given that it was also him who signed the HS papers as a
witness. And I consider its possible that no advice as such was actually given by FWM.However, based on the evidence I do have Im satisfied that its more likely than not FWM
knew about Mr C investing in HS and that FWM facilitated the investment. HY signed the
adviser declaration and became Mr Cs adviser on the SIPP. I cant see any reason for him
to do this if he didnt have the intention to assist Mr C with his pension, particularly as Mr C
was invested in cash at this point. Mr C said he thought DG didnt have investment
permissions and for this reason passed him on to FWM. So theres no indication in my view 
DG pretended to be an FWM adviser.
It's possible that DG completed the fact find with Mr C, however its not unusual for an 
introducer to complete some initial details from the client on behalf of the firm they are 
introducing to. I have no reason to think this wasnt passed on to FWM.
Ive also seen emails between FWMs administrator and HS in October 2015 who refer to
applications for someone with Mr Cs surname. FWM had a number of clients who were
invested with HS at the time. And according to Pi, DG and HY were friends and there was an
introducer agreement which had been recently signed. So I see no reason why DG would
have needed to pass by FWM in this case after having introduced Mr C to FWM in the first
place. FWM had multiple clients who were invested through HS.
I think its more likely that DG and FWM were working together in arranging investments 
through HS. Even if FWM werent giving Mr C investment advice, based on what Ive seen 
they were at the very least helping to arrange the investments.
Mr C was planning to invest in CFDs which are derivatives and complex, so FWM still had to 
assess whether the investments were appropriate for Mr C in accordance with Chapter 10 of 
the Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), even if they didnt advise him.
COBS 10.2.1R at the time of the investment set out that firms
must ask the client to provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the
investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as
to enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for
the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm:
a) must determine whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge in order 
to understand the risks involved in relation to the product or service offered or demanded;
The fact find showed that Mr C was self-employed in a manual job with income of around 
£30,000 a year and that other than his pension, an ISA of £5,000 and £10,000 in cash, he 
had no other investments. His HS application left the section about understanding and 
experience blank. There was no indication that he had any significant investment 
experience, particularly involving anything high risk or complex like CFDs. So I think it fairly 
obvious the HS account and the intended investments in CFDs werent appropriate for Mr C.
What should FWM have done?
COBS 10.3.1R stipulated that in this scenario Mr C should have been given a warning. I 
cant see that FWM provided this.
I also considered COBS 10.3.3G. At the time of the investment it said:
If a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite being given a warning by the 
firm, it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard to the circumstances.So even if FWM had given a warning, I dont think they could have then simply carried on 
arranging the investment. If Mr C still wanted to proceed, they needed to consider whether 
by facilitating this investment they were acting in Mr Cs best interest taking into account all 
of the circumstances.
Pi have pointed to Mr Cs personal responsibility for his decision and actions. And Im not 
saying that COBS or the Principles require anyone without experience in CFDs to be 
stopped from investing this way. However, COBS 10.3.3. acknowledges in my view that 
there will be occasions where the overall circumstances should result in a transaction being 
prevented from going ahead.
FWM also had to act in line with the regulators Principles for Businesses. I consider 
particularly relevant here is Principle 6 - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
And there is also, at COBS 2.1.1R:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
client (the client's best interests rule).
So I think if FWM needed to consider whether it was in Mr Cs best interest to facilitate this 
investment for him.
I think it was clear -or ought to have been clear- that Mr C had no real investment experience 
or knowledge and that he was about to invest in a complex and high-risk investment. He also 
had very limited assets and the money he invested was his only retirement provision. So he 
had no real capacity for loss. Losing his investment would have significantly affected his 
financial position. If FWM wasnt already involved in previous discussions with Mr C, I would 
have expected them to probe Mr C further on his understanding about his intended 
investment and provided their own warnings of risk.
If they had done so, I dont think its likely that Mr C would have given them any information 
which could have reasonably persuaded FWM he had a good understanding of what he was 
investing in. And it likely would have become clear that this was being suggested to him by a 
third party (assuming FWM wasnt involved in the promotion). 
Mr C told his service he was being told (from what I can gather likely by DG) that he would 
get guaranteed returns of 8%. And that was evidently not the case. Overall, I think in the 
circumstances, FWM-as the registered adviser on the SIPP and a regulated firm- should not 
have facilitated the HS investment for Mr C as it was clearly not appropriate for him.
would the investment have happened anyway?
I considered what likely would have happened if FWM had given their own warning why the 
HS investment wasnt appropriate and if they had refused to arrange the investments.
Even though FWM didnt provide their own warning about the investment not being 
appropriate, Ive seen a copy of a letter by HS which was signed by Mr C in late October 
2015 which made it clear that:
he would be investing in CFDs which were high risk
it was noted Mr C had no experience in this product and so HS considered the 
product wasnt suitable for Mr C.he could still invest, but he may be exposing himself to risks that fell outside his 
knowledge and experience
CFDs were high risk including the risk that he could lose more than the invested 
amount
More recently Mr C said he didnt think the signature on this document was his. He said he
never signed his surname in this way. However, whilst I note that other signatures on
documents are different, the signature in his passport for example is more similar to the one
on the HS document. Its not unusual for a person to sign their name differently at different
times and there isnt enough for me to say someone else forged his signature. I think on
balance its more likely he did sign this declaration.
Given that he still proceeded after receiving this warning, I considered whether a similar
warning from FWM would have made a difference to his actions.
On balance, I do think it's more likely it would have triggered Mr C to question whether this
was the right thing to do if FWM, as his newly appointed adviser on the SIPP, had also given
him a separate warning and ensured he properly understood the consequences and risks of
his actions. And if they had told Mr C they were not arranging the investment as they didnt
consider it to be in his best interest.
Ive also considered the argument that Mr C, likely with DGs help, could have invested his
funds directly without any involvement from FWM. And so any warning from FWM and them
refusing to assist with the investment might not have made any difference to Mr Cs
situation. He might have invested in any event-with or without FWMs assistance.
I carefully thought about this. Mr C was in a SIPP and direct investments without advice are
of course possible. And I appreciate that Mr Cs connection to DG was a lot closer than to
FWM. He had known DG for years and had never met FWM. So its possible that any
warnings or explanations from FWM would have had less weight than what DG was telling
him. However, as I said above I think if FWM had given appropriate warnings and had 
refused to assist, I think on balance it would have caused Mr C to pause and rethink his 
actions.
However, even if Im wrong and Mr C was still interested at that point, I think it would have
been unlikely that the investment would have gone ahead without FWMs involvement.
Some SIPP providers, in line with their own due diligence obligations, will not accept certain 
business without a regulated adviser being involved. And to my mind there must have been 
a reason why FWM was involved in the first place. FWM accepted clients introduced from 
unregulated introducers who subsequently invested in unregulated or high-risk investments, 
including HS or certain unregulated bonds. And Pi has said previously that it was the 
introducers who were driving the investments. But nonetheless, instead of these unregulated 
advisers arranging investments themselves, they introduced them to FWM. Presumingly, to 
give reassurance to other parties involved that a regulated firm was taking some 
responsibility for their clients. So I think its less likely that if FWM as the regulated adviser 
had refused to be involved in these activities, the investment would have been accepted by 
the SIPP and/or HS.
Other parties involved
I think its possible that DGs and HSs actions separately caused Mr Cs losses. However,
Im deciding the complaint against Pi. In my view FWM failed in their obligations in line with
COBS and the Principles and didnt act in Mr Cs best interest. If they had, I think its morelikely than not Mr C wouldnt have invested in the way he did. So in my view FWM could
have prevented Mr Cs losses and its fair and reasonable to require them to compensate
him for his losses in full.
If Pi feel that other parties actions have contributed to these losses, they are free to pursue
this directly with them once the paid the full redress to Mr C.
Putting things right
In awarding fair compensation for Mr Cs losses my aim is to put him as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if Pi had acted in line with their regulatory 
obligations. I think Mr C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done. However, Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr C's circumstances when he invested.
To compensate Mr C fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the fair
value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. Pi should add 
interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Pi should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges
and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, Pi
should pay that amount direct to Mr C. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the interest, it
should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mr C a tax deduction
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if
appropriate.
Investment 
namestatus benchmark From
start dateTo
end dateAdditional 
interest
SIPP open for half the 
investment:
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half:
average rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of this 
final decisionSee belowActual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, you should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as 
published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum that Mr C paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Cs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr Cs into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
C would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr C could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
In addition, Pi should pay Mr C £350 for the distress he suffered when he realised he 
had lost the majority of his pension.
Pi should pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum on the compensation calculated 
from the date of my final decision until settlement if its not paid to Mr C within 28 days of us 
notifying Pi that Mr C has accepted my final decision.
Details of the calculations should be provided to Mr C in a clear and simple format.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to calculate and pay Mr C 
compensation as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman