DRN-3082415
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the standard of service shes received from National Westminster
Bank Plc (NatWest) surrounding the issuance of letters advising that her credit card
account is considered as being in persistent debt and the subsequent suspension of that
account. Miss C is also unhappy that NatWest increased the minimum payments due on her
credit account without her knowledge or consent.  
What happened
Miss C received an email from NatWest advising her that her credit card account would be
closed in seven days. Miss C contacted NatWest immediately about this email and was told
that it had been sent because Miss C hadnt responded to any of a series of letters sent to
her by NatWest advising that her account was considered as being in persistent debt and
advising of the steps Miss C needed to have taken to rectify this position. Miss C wasnt
happy about this, especially as she hadnt received any of the letters that NatWest referred
to. So, she raised a complaint.
NatWest looked at Miss Cs complaint, but they confirmed that theyd sent the persistent
debt letters to Miss Cs correct address. Because of this, they didnt think that theyd acted
unfairly by following the persistent debt guidelines, and so they didnt uphold Miss Cs
complaint.
Miss C wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so she referred her complaint to this
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that NatWest hadnt
provided evidence to this service that enabled our investigator to confirm that NatWest had
sent all of the mandated persistent debt correspondence to Miss C  which our investigator
felt was important, given that Miss C was stated that she hadnt received that
correspondence.
Our investigator also considered Miss Cs complaint point that NatWest had increased the
amount of monthly payment that NatWest had taken from Miss Cs account without advising
her about this or gaining her consent to do so. Again, our investigator noted that NatWest
hadnt provided this service with information to allow confirmation that NatWest had fairly
communicated this repayment increase to Miss C. Because of these points, our investigator
recommended that this complaint be upheld in Miss Cs favour and that NatWest should
make a payment of £250 to Miss C to compensate her for any upset or inconvenience
incurred.
NatWest didnt respond to the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the matter
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 September 2021 as follows:
I can appreciate how it must have been upsetting for Miss C to have received an 
email from NatWest advising her that her credit account was going to be closed on 
the basis that she hadnt responded to earlier correspondence sent by NatWest 
about her credit account considered as being in persistent debt  especially as Miss 
C has confirmed that she didnt receive any of the earlier correspondence that 
NatWest claim to have sent.
The Consumer Credit (CONC) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook defines persistent debt on a credit card account as being when a 
customer has paid more in interest, fees, and charges that theyve repaid towards the 
capital balance they owe, over a prolonged period. This can often be the case where 
a customer is paying only or close to the minimum payments required on the credit 
account on a month by month basis.
Credit card providers are required to assess whether its customers meet the criteria 
for being considered as being in persistent debt, and to send a series of mandatory 
letters to customers who are in persistent debt advising them of this fact and of the 
steps that customer can take  primarily being an increase in monthly repayments  
so that the customers account is no longer considered as being in persistent debt by 
a stated date.
Importantly, these letters should also advise the customer of the potential 
consequences that that not making additional payments such that their account 
continues to meet the criteria for persistent debt might entail. And one of these 
potential consequences is that the account might be closed for future use and only 
remain open for balance repayments.
Miss C has stated that its her understanding that there is no requirement for a 
business to close or suspend a customers account if it continues to remain in 
persistent debt. However, in February 2020, the FCA provided clarification on this 
point as follows:
The Persistent Debt rules only require the suspension or cancellation of
cards where a customer:
a) Does not respond to the repayment options proposed within the time
specified by the firm;
b) Confirms that one or more of the proposed options are affordable but
that they will not make increased payments.
In this instance, NatWest took the decision to close Miss Cs account because Miss 
C didnt respond to the repayment options set forth in the previously sent persistent 
debt correspondence within the time specified within those letters. As such, clause 
(a) above appears to be relevant in this instance which in turn means that the closure 
of Miss Cs account appears to have been warranted.
Miss C has stated that she didnt receive any of the persistent debt letters sent 
previously by NatWest. However, NatWest have provided this service with 
information which confirms that they held the correct address for Miss C when 
issuing the letters to her.
And, while NatWest havent provided this service with the information necessary to 
allow it to be confirmed that the full suite of persistent debt letter were definitely sent, 
given that NatWest have been able to demonstrate that some of these letters were sent, I feel that its more likely than not that, on balance, it was the case that the full 
suite of persistent debt letter was sent to Miss C at her correct address  and I say 
this because I consider it unlikely that a business would send a letter which is later in 
a formal sequence without first sending all earlier letters in that sequence.
Of course, it doesnt necessarily follow from this that Miss C received the persistent 
debt letters, and it may have been the case that the letters werent delivered 
successfully to her address. But I feel that this scenario is less likely, and it must be 
noted that this service wouldnt consider holding a business accountable for sent 
letters not being delivered  and this is because the delivery of sent letters is 
undertaken by a postal service and isnt something over which the business has any 
control. It follows from this that my I wont be provisionally upholding this aspect of 
Miss Cs complaint.
With regard the issue of NatWest increasing the amount of minimum payment taken 
from Miss Cs account, its my understanding that NatWest have contacted Miss C 
subsequent to her referring her complaint to this service and made an offer of 
compensation to Miss C of £56.57 in respect to this point.
While I commend NatWest for making this offer, Im not convinced that it goes far 
enough or takes sufficient account of the length of time taken to reach a potential 
resolution on this matter  including as a result of NatWests unreasonably lengthy 
response times while dealing with this service.
As such, I will be provisionally upholding this aspect of Miss Cs complaint only, and 
Ill be provisionally instructing NatWest to increase the level of compensation that 
theyre offering to Miss C by a further £100, to a total of £156.57.
In my provisional decision letter, I have both Miss C and NatWest the opportunity to provide 
any comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a 
final decision. NatWest didnt respond to my provisional decision letter, whereas Miss C did 
provide some further comments for my consideration.
Miss C drew my attention to the fact that did respond to the email sent by NatWest on 9 
October 2020. However, this email was a confirmation that NatWest had already taken the 
decision to close Miss Cs account to further usage and so I remain satisfied that Miss C 
didnt respond to the earlier persistent debt letters sent by NatWest which provided Miss C 
with repayment options which would have enabled her to have avoided having her account 
closed for further use by NatWest.
Its also evident from NatWests contact notes that NatWest had attempted to contact Miss C 
by email before 9 October, but that their email attempts had failed. Indeed, its notable that 
Miss Cs email details were updated by Miss C on 30 September, and that it was this which 
allowed the successful delivery of the email sent by NatWest on 9 October. 
As such, I remain satisfied that NatWest did take reasonable steps to issue communication 
to Miss C about the status of her account being in persistent debt, but that Miss C did not 
respond to this communication such that it was fair and reasonable for NatWest to have 
closed Miss Cs account for further use.
Miss C has also stated that she feels that the additional £100 compensation I instructed in 
my provisional decision letter in relation to NatWest increasing the level of minimum 
payment due on her account doesnt go far enough. Matters of compensation can be 
subjective, with an amount considered as being fair by one party not being considered as 
being such by someone else. However, the additional £100 Ive already instructed here does feel fair to me, given the circumstances, and I dont feel that any further instruction above 
and beyond that amount is warranted in this instance. 
All of which means that I see no reason not to issue my final decision on the same basis as 
that which I outlined in my provisional decision letter, and I can confirm that I will be 
upholding this complaint on that basis accordingly.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss C was wanting here, but I hope that she will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
NatWest must make a payment to Miss C of a further £100. This payment may not take the 
form of a credit to Miss Cs NatWest credit account - unless Miss C gives her permission for 
it to do so.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc on 
the basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman