DRN-3410820
The complaint
Mr D complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc, referred to as the business or HSBC.
In summary, he says that an embargo was placed on his account, preventing him from 
withdrawing his investments, resulting in around £6,000 worth of losses.
To put things right, hed like the business to compensate him for his loss. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
HSBC did what it was required to do in the circumstances. 
It sent Mr D three letters, on three separate occasions  dated 22 November 2019, 9 
January 2020, and 26 January 2020  detailing the transfer on to Global Investment 
Centre (GIC) online platform, embargo and what to expect.
In the first letter HSBC gave Mr D a 90-day notice  that it was to move his 
investment which is currently managed by HSBC Trust Company (UK) Limited, into 
a GC account, which is managed by HSBC UK Bank plc. 
It included further documents relating to the changes, including:
oQuestions and Answers  support to help understand this change. 
oNotice of Variation document  tells you the differences between the service 
you currently have with your SIF and/or IFP account and what youll get on 
GIC. 
oGIC Terms  the new terms that youre agreeing to once weve moved your 
investment onto GIC. 
oGIC Key Features document  a summary of the key information for GIC. 
HSBC provided important documentation highlighting the changes to Mr Ds account 
and what is likely to happen to his investment.  
The subsequent two letters, dated January 2020, were chaser letters also telling Mr 
D about the changes to his account and when they were to take place. 
The letters notified Mr D that he wouldnt be able to trade between 11:59pm on 13 
March 2020 until the move had been completed. The letters also set out the timeline 
highlighting what Mr D could and couldnt do during this time. 
Despite Mr D subsequently contacting HSBC about selling his shares, there was 
nothing it could do. HBSC had already made clear what was happening with the 
account, and when the embargo would take place, giving Mr D enough time to act 
beforehand. 
During the embargo the investments dropped in value, HSBC made clear that this 
was due to Covid-19, and the restrictions put in place by the government  
circumstances which were beyond its control.  
Despite the inconvenience, theres no evidence that HSBC contributed to any losses. 
The £25 compensation offered by HSBC as a goodwill gesture is fair.  
Mr D disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
Hes aware he received all the letters from HSBC prior to the transfer of funds to the 
GIC account which is managed by HSBC. 
This was all internal procedure, which he had no control over. He thought the bank 
would have a safety net in case anything went wrong. 
As a customer of many years he thought his money would be safe. Not only did he 
lose money, but his wife did too. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite 
what Mr D says, Im unable to safely say that HSBC behaved unreasonably. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mr Ds 
strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided submissions to support the complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr D, and HSBC, and reach what I think is an independent, fair, 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation, and best industry
practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more
likely than not to have happened.
A financial business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial 
judgement, to decide how to run its affairs. Therefore, Im satisfied that the busines was 
entitled to transfer Mr Ds account and impose an embargo whilst it did so, probably in an 
effort to provide what it perceived to be a better service and comply with the industry 
regulator. Its not for us to tell a business how it should conduct its affairs.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that Mr D was notified of this 
forthcoming change (in good time) by way of a 90-day notice followed by two chasers sent 
the following month, with a 60-day and 30-day reminder respectively. Based on what Mr D 
says, it seems that he accepts he was written to, but he still took no immediate action, 
despite being provided with a clear timeline and plan of action. 
For example, the documentation made clear that as of 3.30pm on 3 March 2020 any 
instructions to buy, sell, or switch shares in his account wont be accepted. So, if Mr D didnt 
agree with the changes, he had until that time to move to another provider.
If Mr D missed the 3 March 2020 deadline, he could still give instructions by 6pm on 13 
March 2020 so that the business could transfer and/or close his account. But if it didnt hear 
anything back, it made clear it would assume that he agreed with changes and the new 
terms and conditions will apply, including new account fees. So, in the circumstances and on 
balance, Mr Ds inaction isnt something I can blame the business for. Im satisfied that 
HSBC was entitled to assume Mr D agreed with the transfer. I note HSBC also made clear that 23 March 2020 was the latest date by which it expects to 
unblock the new GIC account so that account holders could buy, sell, or switch fund shares. 
But Im aware that it gave no guarantees and therefore it isnt to blame by not being able to 
complete the transfer by that date or sooner. 
 
On balance Im satisfied that Mr D had enough time to move or withdraw funds if thats what 
he wanted to do before the process started and even after. So, HSBC hasnt done anything 
wrong by not acting upon his request once the process had started but hadnt been 
successfully completed.  
I appreciate what Mr D says about the losses claimed but thats not something I can blame 
the business for. Hell be aware that the value is dependent on the financial markets  and 
the likely adverse impact of the Covid-19 global pandemic at the time  neither of which is 
something that HSBC could predict or control.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that HSBC behaved reasonably, 
and I cant blame it for Mr Ds inaction. Therefore, I dont think the business is responsible for 
the losses claimed. 
Im aware that the business has offered to pay Mr D £25 compensation as a gesture of 
goodwill  for the inconvenience the embargo has caused. As Im not upholding this 
complaint, because I dont think the business has done anything wrong, its not an amount I 
can ask the business to pay if it hasnt done so already. 
In any event, I note Mr D thinks this amount is a complete insult  although I would point out 
this amount isnt compensation for financial loss or any wrongdoing by the business.
I appreciate Mr D will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what 
he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman