DRN-2260217
Complaint
Mr H says Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
Mr H bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
and said that he was rushed into taking out the credit card, so didnt know what he was 
doing. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint because:
M&S should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was optional and 
gain Mr Hs consent before adding it to his credit card. 
M&S has provided our service with a copy of Mr Hs completed and signed credit card 
application form from the time of sale. Looking at the form, I can see Mr H was asked 
to tick a box and sign for the PPI if he wanted it added to his account.
On Mr Hs form, I can see the box to take PPI has been ticked and he has signed in the 
relevant section to confirm his selection. He then also signed the overall credit 
agreement. So, based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not M&S made it 
clear that the PPI was an optional product and Mr H chose to take it.
Mr H has said he felt rushed into taking the policy as at the time he applied for the card 
he was out shopping in a M&S store.  Ive thought about what he has said, but I still 
think Mr H agreed to the PPI, knowing he had a choice. Based on what Ive seen, I 
cant see anything to suggest Mr H was pressured by the M&S representative into 
taking it out or that the application form didnt make it clear as to what Mr H was 
signing up for. In the section for the PPI, it does give a brief summary of the policy, 
including its benefits and costs. If Mr H didnt want the PPI, I wouldnt have expected 
him to tick the box for the PPI and sign separately for it.
M&S and Mr H have both said M&S didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H. So it didnt 
have to check if the policy was right for him. It was up to Mr H to decide if it was right 
for him.
Its possible the information M&S gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr H doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy doesnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions. I also havent seen 
anything to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Mr H.
Mr H has told us he would have received statutory sick pay if he was too unwell to work 
and he didnt have any savings. Looking at the policy Mr H took out, I can see it would 
have paid out in the event that Mr H was too unwell to work. The PPI also would have 
paid a benefit if Mr H was ever made redundant. 
So overall, I think Mr H could have found the policy useful if he ever fell on hard times 
and I dont think that any better information would have put him off from taking out the 
policy. 
Which means M&S doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But M&S has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
M&S got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because M&S didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, M&S has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
that it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman