DRN-3426264
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the performance of an endowment assurance policy invested in 
a with profits fund managed by Forester Life Limited (Forester). 
What happened
In October 1999 Mr R opened the plan directly with The Childrens Mutual with the 
Tunbridge Wells Equitable Friendly Society (TWEFS), latterly known as The Childrens 
Mutual, and which was taken over by Forester in 2013. 
The plan was to last 21 years with a guaranteed sum assured (either upon maturity of the 
plan or upon death of the life assured during the policy term) of £5,731 at a cost to Mr R of 
£25 per month.
The plan matured in October 2020. Mr R was unhappy with the performance of the plan and 
return he received, so made a complaint to Forester. 
In its final response to Mr Rs complaint on 16 October 2020 Forester detailed how the plan 
worked. It said the plan didnt guarantee a return other than the guaranteed minimum 
payment. And the return may be less than the total amount that was contributed by way of 
premiums.
 
It said the return was dependent on long term investment performance and the effect of the 
deduction of charges. Yearly (reversionary) bonuses could be added to the plan to increase 
the sum assured along with the potential of a (terminal) bonus paid on maturity. The 
bonuses were a reflection of investment performance after costs. 
When the plan matured it was valued at £8,433.59. Mr R had paid total premiums of £6,300.  
Annual bonuses totalling £2,129.07 had been added to the initial sum assured, plus a 
terminal bonus of £573.52 giving the final maturity figure.
Forester told us it hadnt given any advice at the point of sale  that was given by the 
predecessor company which was acquired by Forester in April 2013 after the predecessor 
company ran into financial difficulty. Since it had taken over the plan, it said it had 
considerably reduced the annual management charges that had previously applied to the 
plan, as well as paying a £53m cash injection into the TWEFS fund.
It said it did so with the aim of improving the investment prospects and security of benefits
for policyholders such as Mr R. It confirmed the annual management charge for the plan
had been 1.25% since 2017, which it said was one of the lowest in the current market for 
plans of this type.
Forester said it regretted the performance of the plan had not been better but said the nature 
of this type of investment meant that its performance could not be guaranteed. 
Mr R wasnt happy with the response he received and brought his complaint to this service. 
He told us:
The performance of the plan was disgraceful and devastating. No annual bonuses 
had been paid on the policy for ten years, either by the predecessor business or 
Forester.
Forester had said that Mr R had received annual statements which showed a nil 
bonus. But as Mr R understood it, the terminal bonus was added at the end date of 
the policy which prevented any decisions being made about poor performance until 
the end date of the policy.
Over the same time period that Mr R held the policy with Forester, he held a 
mortgage endowment policy with another provider for which he paid similar 
premiums. Throughout the latter years of holding that policy Mr R had been issued 
warning letters about the poor performance and despite this, the mortgage 
endowment policy returned considerably more than the Forester plan. 
The policy had been taken for the benefit of his daughter to allow for a house deposit 
when she reached 21 years of age. He felt betrayed by Forester and the regulator 
he had taken a decision to plan for the future, and this was the outcome. 
Mr R questioned how Forester continued to run a fund making no profits and why he 
hadnt been warned in stronger terms that the policy was failing. He also asked why 
Forester had not advised that the terminal bonus would be so poor and would make 
almost no profit over the 21 years. He wanted to know why Forester hadnt moved 
the investment into something which could pay a return and how the Government 
allowed a company to run in such a way. 
Mr R had previously complained to Forester in 2014 who provided a response to his 
complaint in April 2014. As certain aspects of Mr Rs complaint had already been dealt with 
this service couldnt consider them because Mr R had brought his complaint to this service 
too late under the jurisdiction rules we have to abide by. These include the rules about when 
we can and cant look at a complaint if the event being complained about happened six or 
more years ago. Or if more than six years ago, then three years from when the complainant 
became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, they had cause for complaint. 
On 4 February 2022 our investigator clarified what elements of the complaint we could and 
couldnt look at:
Foresters final response letter sent in 28 April 2014 addressed the reasons why 
bonuses werent paid, and Mr R had the opportunity to refer to this service within six 
months of that letter. As Mr R didnt do this, it wasnt something we could consider. 
Mr R says that Forester hadnt sent any explicit or firm warnings to him that the plan 
wasnt performing. The complaint in 2014 suggested the cause for this part of his 
complaint was clear. As this current complaint was logged on 18 September 2020, 
we could consider notification of performance of the plan from that date back to       
18 September 2014.
Mr R said Forester hadnt advised him the investment may make little profit due to a 
low terminal bonus. The plan matured in 2020 and this was when the terminal bonus 
would be paid. As Mr R had complained within six years of that date, this was 
something we could consider.
It wasnt explained to Mr R until Foresters final response letter sent in 2020 that 
Forester wouldnt allow a terminal bonus to be paid if the plan was moved. So, this 
complaint point could be considered. 
Forester hadnt moved the investment into something that could pay a return and as 
this complaint point was about the performance of the plan, and not just the bonuses, 
then we could look at this but only for the performance after 18 September 2014 onwards.  
Our investigator later went on to consider the merits of the complaint and issued his opinion. 
He said:
As Forester had told us it didnt provide the advice at the point of sale the investigator 
wouldnt look to see if that advice was suitable. The investigator looked at whether 
Forester provided clear information and applied the terms of the policy fairly. 
The mortgage endowment policy Mr R had referred to may have been able to take 
more risk than a non-mortgage linked endowment policy. 
The annual statements Mr R had been sent from 2014 onward made clear how the 
policy was performing, whether a bonus had been paid and how much. He thought 
the information was clear, fair, and not misleading.
The value of a terminal bonus would be determined by Forester on maturity and 
would be a business decision it was entitled to make so not something the 
investigator could comment on. And as the terminal bonus could only be paid on 
maturity, Forester was reasonable in not allowing the payment earlier. 
It was for Forester to decide how the plan was invested and overall Mr R received 
more back than he had put in. It wouldnt be for this service to instruct Forester on 
what to invest in.
The investigator was satisfied Forester administered the policy in line with the terms 
and provided information in a clear way. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. As the complaint remains unresolved it has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill 
explain why.
I should first clarify that I will not be considering whether the plan was a suitable investment 
for Mr R. This isnt one of Mr Rs complaint points, so I wont be considering the advice Mr R 
received to invest or any of the information he was provided at the point of sale in 1999.
However, Forester did have the responsibility to make sure the information provided about 
the plan after it took over the business in 2013 was clear. 
Forester provided us with the annual statements Mr R had been sent since 2014. And those 
statements clearly show the bonuses previously added, any new bonuses applied (or not) 
during the year and the later ones included an example of the cash in value. Notes were also 
included about the plan and the types of bonuses that may be applied. So, I cant agree that 
Mr R wasnt given appropriate information about the plan and its performance. 
Mr R also asked why Forester had not advised the terminal bonus would be so poor. But 
terminal bonuses can only be decided and applied upon the maturity of the plan. So, it 
wasnt foreseeable what that bonus might be. And that bonus would be a business decision 
made by Forester and because of the nature of the terminal bonus it couldnt be known in 
advance.I appreciate Mr Rs frustration and disappointment at the lack of financial return, but I havent 
seen sufficient evidence to make me conclude the information provided about the policy was 
misleading or breached any regulatory guidelines. So, I cant hold Foresters liable for any 
consequential loss of expectation. 
Mr R has asked how Forester could continue to run a fund that was not making any profit. 
Forester told us that after it took over the operation of the policies, it did take steps to bring 
about improvements to the fund, by making both a capital investment and later in 2016 by 
appointing a third-party fund management firm. From that date onwards, it said there had 
been positive fund growth.
Foresters has also said that it did reduce annual management charges for TWEFS policies 
in the fund. However, Foresters has not been able to award bonuses on the plan within the 
TWEFS fund for many years, in order to stabilise the fund. I dont find Foresters have acted 
unreasonably in taking that step, when it is not obliged, under the terms of the plan it took 
over in 2013, to add bonuses.
Mr R has asked how the Government allowed a company to run in such a way. I think it 
would be helpful to explain that this service has no regulatory or disciplinary powers. Our 
service offers an informal dispute resolution service, where we consider what is fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of each complaint. 
What this service can do is consider whether the way in which Foresters managed the bond 
was in line with regulations and the terms of the plan. And as I have said above, I havent 
seen anything to make me conclude that Mr R was misled or that Forester didnt act as it 
should and within the rules which govern the operation of with profits funds. 
Firms have to manage the investments within certain restrictions and arent free to just 
remove any returns without giving anything to consumers. But they invest in a range of 
assets which will present risk to the overall performance of the fund. And inevitably some 
funds, and managers, will perform better than others. But it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
to penalise a firm for not performing as well as another, provided theyve invested within the 
parameters of the relevant rules. 
Mr R has referred to the mortgage endowment policy he had around the same time as the 
Forester plan and that despite that products warnings of poor performance, had produced a 
better return than the plan he had with Foresters. I wont be addressing that point as its not 
part of this complaint and I am not in a position to consider the merits of that product. And it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider the investment return of one product with another 
provider with a product with a different provider. 
I appreciate that Mr R is disappointed with the performance of the plan. But as Ive said 
above, the way in which a product provider manages investments is a matter for its own 
commercial judgment within the parameters of the relevant rules. And inevitably some 
decisions will turn out to be less profitable than others and some funds wont perform as well 
as hoped. This is a risk of investing and one that he should have been appraised of at the 
point of sale.  
In this case, Im satisfied that Forester provided Mr R with sufficiently clear information about 
how the plan worked and performed. And he was given no guarantees as to what the returns 
would be in addition to the guaranteed sum assured. So, in conclusion and in the individual 
circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Forester have done anything wrong.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Forester Life Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman