DRN-3603392
The complaint
Mrs O and Mr S complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) have wrongly 
declined their mortgage application. They have incurred an early repayment charge (ERC) 
as a result of having to move their mortgage to another lender.
What happened
Mrs O and Mr S had a mortgage with NatWest and they wanted to move to a new house. 
They applied for a payment deferral during the pandemic and this was approved by NatWest 
for three months initially, April to June 2020 then again from July to September 2020.
Once they found a property they wanted to purchase, they made an offer which was 
accepted. They said they wanted to borrow additional money for the house purchase and 
NatWest provided them with an agreement in principle (AIP). They said they contacted 
NatWest in December 2020 and were told that they were not able to borrow any further 
funds. They complained to NatWest who upheld their complaint. NatWest said they 
incorrectly applied a debt marker on the mortgage. They apologised and arranged for this 
marker to be removed. 
Mrs O and Mr S contacted NatWest again to continue with the application and were told they 
could only borrow £72,000. Their mortgage was around £165,000, so Mrs O and Mr S 
couldnt understand this. They said the adviser at NatWest found the AIP they had 
completed, overruled the system and asked for a mortgage adviser to give them a call. 
Mrs O and Mr S said they spoke to someone over the phone in January 2021 and they 
believed they were completing a mortgage application. They were told that the next stage 
would be for NatWest to conduct a credit search, which they thought was a hard credit 
search and not a soft search which was done at AIP stage.  Mrs O and Mr S application 
was declined. 
Mrs O and Mr S think they were wrongly declined the mortgage due to a failure in NatWests 
system. They said they applied to another lender and within two weeks, they had a mortgage 
offer. They said they were notified when a hard credit search had been carried out, but they 
didnt get this notification with NatWest. So, they think that something has gone wrong. 
They brought their complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She looked further into what had 
happened and explained to Mrs O and Mr S that only a soft credit search had been 
conducted and that the application got declined initially at affordability stage. She said that a 
full mortgage application hadnt been conducted. She said the previous marker which was 
on the mortgage account had been removed so didnt feel that NatWest had done anything 
wrong.
Our investigator also said that NatWest had concerns around how the payment deferral was 
used when it had been applied, as it didnt appear that Mrs O and Mr S were in financial 
difficulty and that they were saving the money instead of paying it towards their mortgage. 
She believes this could have had an impact on NatWests decision.
Mrs O and Mr S disagreed. They said that NatWest have changed their response which is 
unacceptable. The telephone call they had with the adviser was for a full mortgage 
application. 
They said they were told they passed affordability and based on what they were proposing to 
do, their monthly outgoings would have been far less than they were already paying with 
NatWest.  They were going to pay off a loan during their house move, which they have done 
since taking out the new mortgage with another lender, and the new mortgage would cost 
less than what they were paying to NatWest for the mortgage and the loan. 
Mrs O and Mr S question why NatWest felt the payment deferral wasnt required and that it 
shouldnt matter if other debt reduced. They made a decision and their decision was to take 
a payment deferral on the mortgage and said that NatWest didnt make them aware of the 
consequences of taking the payment deferral. Overall, they disagree that their application 
would have declined. They are adamant that a full application had been completed which 
they were told they failed at credit score and they believe something has gone wrong. 
As they disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 24 June 2022. I said:
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mrs O and Mr S have made very detailed submissions and provided a lot of 
information as to why they believe their complaint should be upheld. I will not 
comment on every point that Mrs O and Mr S have made, but I want to reassure 
them that I have considered everything they have told us when issuing my decision.
The crux of the matter here is that NatWest declined Mrs O and Mr S mortgage 
application which meant that Mrs O and Mr S had to move to another lender, which 
meant they paid an ERC. There is also quite a lot of concern surrounding the credit 
score and whether a full hard search or a soft search had been conducted. Mrs O 
and Mr S believe that they had in fact completed a full mortgage application in 
January 2021 where they were told they passed the affordability checks, and 
NatWest told them they would then proceed to a full credit search. 
The full credit search isnt showing on Mrs O and Mr S credit history and its since 
transpired that NatWest didnt carry out a full search, but only a soft search at the 
initial stages prior to an application being made. NatWest have said that the 
application declined at this stage, so they didnt proceed any further. NatWest said 
that when the toolkit was carried out which doesnt involve a hard credit search, they 
were unable to agree the application based on affordability. A toolkit is a system that 
NatWest uses to capture information such as personal information, income and so 
forth.  NatWest said they would not proceed to application if it fails at that stage. 
This is different to what NatWest said in their final response letter as they said the 
application was declined at a hard credit score stage. So, I do understand why 
Mrs O and Mr S have concerns, and why they believe that something has gone 
wrong with NatWests internal system.
I havent seen any evidence that shows a full application was made or that a full 
credit score had been conducted. NatWest did provide evidence which states full 
against credit search completed but they have now confirmed this is in relation to a 
full toolkit search being conducted and not a full credit search. The fact that one isnt 
showing on Mrs O or Mr S credit history suggests its likely one wasnt carried out.  
Mrs O and Mr S have said that they spent a considerable amount of time with an 
adviser in January 2021 where they strongly believe a full mortgage application had 
been carried out. They said an affordability assessment was completed and it was 
confirmed by the adviser that they had passed affordability. Mrs O and Mr S said their credit score is immaculate and they think it would be highly unlikely they would 
have been rejected on this basis, so believe there is something else wrong with 
NatWests internal systems. 
We have asked NatWest for a copy of the call recording from January 2021 so that 
we can establish exactly what was discussed with Mrs O and Mr S. Unfortunately, 
after several requests, NatWest are not able to locate this telephone call. They are 
unable to obtain details of the toolkit which is basically the initial stages of enquiry, 
affordability and a soft credit search. NatWest have told us that a full mortgage 
application was never completed, and they are not able to provide any information to 
support this  but Mrs O and Mr S believe they did complete an application. As Ive 
already mentioned, I havent seen any evidence that a full application had been 
completed. 
From the information provided by NatWest, it seems that they had some concerns 
with the payment deferral that Mrs O and Mr S were granted. NatWest provided us 
with information showing that a payment deferral was granted to Mrs O and Mr S and 
notes they provided to us shows the concerns they raised. 
Payment deferrals were granted to borrowers initially for a three-month period, later 
to be increased to a total of six months, where borrowers experienced or thought 
they would experience financial difficulties during the pandemic. The guidance set 
out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) at the time of the pandemic stated that 
where a consumer is experiencing or is reasonably expected to experience 
difficulties making their mortgage payments, a lender is expected to grant a 
consumer a payment deferral. Payment deferrals should be granted without the need 
to make detailed enquires so should be very light touch. Mrs O and Mr S did tell us 
their salaries did decline, and Mrs O was placed on furlough and during those 
uncertain times, they didnt know what the future might hold for them.
NatWest told us they were concerned because Mrs O and Mr S took a payment 
deferral because they were financially impacted by the pandemic, but they could see 
that Mrs O and Mr S saved large amounts of money into another account and paid 
other debts instead of paying their mortgage. 
Mrs O was furloughed, and Mr S said his income had reduced and this is the reason 
they applied for a payment deferral. They applied for six months which was granted. 
Mrs O and Mr S wouldnt have known at the time of the pandemic and at the time 
they applied for a payment deferral how the pandemic would have affected them. I 
accept they may not have been in financial difficulties at the time as they initially 
thought they might be, but I dont think its unreasonable that other debts decreased 
as they were trying to possibly mitigate other issues coming up. Mrs O and Mr S had 
the right to apply for a payment deferral if they thought they needed one. However, 
NatWest havent said this is the reason for the declined mortgage application, but 
they did say they were concerned about this. The FCA guidance said that lenders 
should not report a worsening status or the payment deferral on a consumers credit 
file. I cant see that NatWest did this. However, some of the information given by 
NatWest on the reasons for the declined application are not clear. 
At first, they told Mrs O and Mr S that their application was declined at full credit 
score, then they told us that it was only a soft search that was carried out and the 
application declined at their initial toolkit stage. 
We asked NatWest for more information to try and understand specifically why Mrs O 
and Mr Ss application or initial enquires were declined. 
NatWest referred us to the letter they sent Mrs O and Mr S where they told them their 
application failed their credit assessment criteria. They said part of this process 
involves the use of a credit scoring system which involves the use of credit reference searches and the sharing of data with other lenders or agencies where appropriate. 
But NatWest have told us that a full search wasnt carried out and there is no 
evidence of one being completed. 
NatWest have since told us that they have reviewed the toolkit data and this indicates 
that the decline does not appear to be an affordability issue, and I think they 
mentioned before that it possibly could have been. So they have told us again that 
the application declined at credit score stage.
I understand that NatWest will have their own internal credit scoring system but its 
very unclear at this stage why Mrs O and Mr Ss application was declined. Lenders 
are entitled to make their own lending decisions, but we need to ensure that they 
have made any commercial judgement legitimately. My concern is that some weight 
has been put on the payment deferrals which I dont think is reasonable. 
Mrs O and Mr S were also able to obtain a mortgage with another lender almost 
immediately which also adds weight to the fact that Mrs O and Mr Ss credit status 
wasnt an issue. 
Having considered everything very carefully, I am minded to uphold this complaint 
and ask NatWest to refund the ERC that Mrs O and Mr S paid, along with any 
product fees that they may have paid with the new lender. In addition to this, as Mrs 
O and Mr S have taken out a new mortgage with another lender, the new interest 
rate will also need to be considered. So I would ask that Mrs O and Mr S send us a 
copy of their mortgage offer so that we can think about how the interest rate would 
impact any award given. If the interest rate with the new lender is lower than it was 
with NatWest, this saving would need to be deducted from any redress paid. 
NatWest hasnt clearly explained why the mortgage application was declined and I 
think its most likely declined because Mrs O and Mr S took a payment deferral. The 
FCA guidance says that payment deferrals should not impact credit files and even if 
this isnt the case, I think NatWests knowledge of how the account was conducted 
after the payment deferral was granted and how Mrs O and Mr S reduced some other 
debts, doesnt seem to be within the spirit of that guidance. Because of this, I think 
the mortgage application was declined unfairly. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct National 
Westminster Bank Plc to:
Refund the ERC that Mrs O and Mr S have paid with 8% simple interest from 
the date the ERC was paid until date of settlement
Pay Mrs O and Mr S £250 compensation for the trouble and upset they have 
been caused
Refund any mortgage application costs that Mrs O and Mr S would have paid 
with the new lender less any costs they would have incurred with NatWest 
evidence to be provided to NatWest
Refund the difference in the interest rate if the interest rate with the new 
lender is higher  evidence to be provided by Mrs O and Mr S
If National Westminster Bank Plc deducts tax from any interest it pays to Mrs 
O and Mr S as above, it should provide Mrs O and Mr S with a tax deduction 
certificate, so they can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if appropriate.
DevelopmentsMrs O and Mr S responded to the provisional decision and accepted what I had said. They 
also confirmed that their new mortgage had an interest rate of 2.08% and they believe this to 
be the same as NatWests  so they said that this part of the offer wont need addressing. 
Mrs O and Mr S also confirmed they paid a mortgage fee of £999 for the new mortgage. 
They have provided evidenced of this. 
NatWest also responded and accepted the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As NatWest and Mrs O and Mr S accepted the provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from it. However, Mrs O and Mr S have confirmed that the interest rate they took out 
with the new lender was the same as the one they had with NatWest. They said this part of 
the complaint didnt need addressing.
I have looked at the interest rate that Mrs O and Mr S were on with NatWest and I can see 
this was 2.08%. Having looked at the mortgage offer with the new lender, I can see that the 
interest rate is the same.  I therefore wont be asking NatWest to refund the difference in the 
interest rate as addressed in my provisional decision. There are no other amendments to 
make in regard to this. All other aspects remain the same. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I direct National Westminster 
Bank Plc to:
Refund the ERC that Mrs O and Mr S have paid with 8% simple interest from 
the date the ERC was paid until date of settlement
Pay Mrs O and Mr S £250 compensation for the trouble and upset they have 
been caused
Refund any mortgage application costs that Mrs O and Mr S would have paid with the new lender less any costs they would have incurred with NatWest 
evidence to be provided to NatWest 
If National Westminster Bank Plc deducts tax from any interest it pays to Mrs O and Mr S as 
above, it should provide Mrs O and Mr S with a tax deduction certificate, so they can reclaim 
the tax from the tax authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman