DRN-1615131
 
The complaint
 Mrs C complains that Barclays Bank PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2002. Mrs C completed an 
application form for her credit card and the PPI policy was added at the same time. Barclays 
says the application was completed in a branch and that this was an advised sale.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Mrs Cs case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Ive seen a copy of the application form which Mrs C signed at the time. Theres a section on 
this about PPI. This says Please tick the box if you require payment protection A cross has 
been placed next to this. And I can also see that Mrs C didnt choose to take out the card 
protection cover which was also offered on the form.
So, on the information available to me, I think that Mrs C would have known she had a 
choice about buying the policy and actively decided to do so. But the sale happened a long 
time ago, so I can understand why she may not recall this now.
I cant now know what Barclays did to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable for Mrs C. But 
from what I know of her circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt 
have been suitable. I say this because:
Mrs C appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
 
Mrs C says she would have received generous sick pay from her employer at the 
time of the sale and, if needed, could also have received financial support from her 
husband. So she doesnt think she needed the PPI cover. But this policy would have 
paid out for up to twelve months if she wasnt able to work because of an accident, 
sickness or unemployment, as well as giving Mrs C some life cover. It would have 
paid out in addition to her other means and I think it would have given her more security than having to rely on her husband for support. And she chose to take the 
cover, so it looks like she valued the sort of protection the PPI gave her. So I still 
think Mrs C would have thought the extra security the policy gave her was worth 
paying for.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI policy was unaffordable for Mrs C. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her 
needs. 
 
Barclays also needed to ensure that Mrs C received enough information about the PPI policy 
for her to decide if it met her needs. From what Ive seen, I think the information it gave her 
could have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable for her, I dont think better information would have changed her mind 
about taking it.
So I dont think Mrs C has lost out by anything Barclays may have done wrong when it sold 
her this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs Cs representative has said in response to our 
adjudicators view, but this hasnt changed my mind about not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint about Barclays Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman