DRN-2884963
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim she made on her 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2020, Mrs K booked a trip abroad. She separately purchased her flights and 
accommodation. She was due to travel on 20 Mach 2020 and her trip was due to last three 
nights/four days. 
Around the same time as booking her trip, Mrs K took out an Express Essential Single Trip 
travel insurance policy, underwritten by ERGO (the policy) to cover her trip abroad.
The trip was cancelled around 19 March 2020 due to international travel restrictions as a 
result of Covid-19 pandemic. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against 
all but essential travel on 17 March 2020. That guidance remained in place at the time the 
trip was cancelled and when Mrs K was due to travel abroad.
Mrs K was able to recover the cost of her flights from the airline provider, but she couldnt 
recover the cost of her accommodation as this was a non-refundable booking. So, she made 
a claim on the policy for the outstanding accommodation costs.
ERGO declined Mrs Ks claim because the reason which led to her trip being cancelled 
wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. It said the cancellation section 
of the policy listed specific reasons for which ERGO would provide cover, and the 
circumstances surrounding Mrs Ks claim didnt fit within those reasons. 
Mrs K didnt think that was fair, so complained to our Service. Our investigator upheld her 
complaint. Although, the trip was cancelled for a reason not listed in the cancellation section 
of the policy terms, there was also an exclusion in the policy limiting cover if shed travelled 
against the advice of the FCO. So, our investigator didnt think it was fair and reasonable for 
ERGO to decline the claim for the reason it did. She concluded that it would be fair and 
reasonable for ERGO to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the 
policy. And she recommended ERGO to assess the claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
ERGO didnt agree. It said the specific insured perils for which a claim may be considered 
are clearly set out in the policy terms. As the circumstance giving rise to the claim made by 
Mrs K fell outside of those insured perils, it said it was unable to consider the claim. It also 
provided comments from its underwriter.
This complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The relevant rules and industry guidelines
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for Business say:
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.

The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to:
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
customer;
handle claims promptly and fairly;
not unreasonably reject a claim.

ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so a customer can make an
informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
Appropriate information includes the information that must be set out in an Insurance
Product Information Document (IPID) which gives customers an at a glance summary of
their cover. This includes a summary of the insurance cover, including the main risks
insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, the geographical scope and summary of
excluded risks.
The FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of 
Customers says firms should consider the impact of their actions  or inactions  on the 
customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.
The policy terms and conditions
Page 11 of the policy terms and conditions says:
The Policy Wording tells You exactly what is and is not covered, how to make a 
claim and other important information.
Policy Wording / Policy is defined at page 7 as:
The Policy Wording contains full details of the cover provided plus the conditions 
and exclusions that apply. You must read the insurance Policy carefully.
Page 22 of the policy terms and conditions set out the policy cancellation terms. It says:
This section of the Policy sets out the cover We provide to each insured person in 
total per insured journey, not exceeding the sum insured shown in your policy 
schedule, following necessary and unavoidable cancellation of your trip.
All travel charges that you have paid and/or are contracted to pay before the 
departure date and cannot recover in respect of any part of the trip that you are 
necessarily required to cancel as a result of:
1. Your accidental bodily injury or illness or death (or that of a relative, a close 
   Business associate or a friend with whom you have arranged to travel or stay).
2. You or any person with whom you have arranged to stay, having being subject to    compulsory quarantine or being summoned for non-foreseeable compulsory  
    military and/or jury service or as a witness in a court of law (expect in a 
    professional capacity as an expert witness) during the period of the trip.
3. Your pregnancy, where confirmation of your pregnancy by a hospital or registered 
    medical practitioner is announced to you after you have bought the policy and 
    booked the trip provided you cancel your trip within seven days.
4. Your redundancy (qualifying you to claim for payment under current redundancy 
     payment legislation) and that of any person with whom you intend to travel 
    provided that such notice of redundancy is advised to us within 14 days of its 
   announcement.
5. Your private dwelling becoming uninhabitable following fire, storm or flood, or your
                presence being required by the police following burglary at your private dwelling  
                occurring at any time after we have accepted this insurance.
Pages 14 and 15 of the policy set out the general exclusions which apply to the policy. 
 
And page 14 says the policy doesnt cover: Active Participation  which is defined at page 9 
of the policy terms and conditions as:
A. the act of any person, whether a combatant or non-combatant, supplying, 
     transporting, or otherwise handling facilities, equipment, devices, vehicles, 
     weapons, or other materials intended for use in War and Civil Unrest or Terrorism.
B. the act of any person voluntarily entering an area known at the time to be subject  
    to War and Civil Unrest or against the advice of the Foreign and Commonwealth 
   Office. See www.fco.gov.uk.
Ill refer to the general exclusion relating to Active Participation in conjunction with the 
definition at paragraph B, above, as the FCO exclusion.
The policy summary:
Page 2 of the policy summary says:
Some important facts about your insurance are summarised below. This summary 
does not describe all the terms and conditions of your policy, so please take time to 
read the policy document to make sure you understand the cover it provides.
The IPID
At the top of page 1 of the IPID it says:
This Insurance Product Information Document is only intended to provide a 
summary of the main coverage and exclusions, and is not personalised to your 
specific individual needs in any way. Complete pre-contractual information on the 
product is provided in your policy documentation.
Under the heading What is insured? the IPID says: Cancellation  up to £2,000.
And, under the heading, Where am I covered, on page 2 of the IPID it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For
further details, visit: www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.
Has Mrs Ks claim been unfairly declined?At the time Mrs Ks trip was cancelled, the FCO was advising against all but essential travel 
outside of the UK. That advice remained in place on the date that Mrs K was due to travel.
I accept that isnt one of the specific, listed insured events for which cancellation cover is 
provided under the terms of the policy as set out above. However, if Mrs K had disregarded 
FCO advice, and travelled anyway (even if she was able to), the FCO exclusion says no 
cover wouldve been in place at all. Thats also confirmed in the IPID.
Although the policy terms dont list cancellation due to a change to FCO advice as a specific
insured event I also need to consider whether I think its fair and reasonable for ERGO to 
decline Mrs Ks claim in all the circumstances of this case. In doing so, Ive taken into 
account the industry rules and guidance set out above, as well as relevant law (including the 
unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015).
Having done so, Im not persuaded that it was clearly set out in the policy terms that Mrs K 
wouldnt be covered should if her trip was cancelled as a result of the FCO advising against 
all but essential international travel. And I dont think the implications of this were made clear 
to her. As such, Im satisfied that this has left Mrs K in an unfair position.
Whilst I accept that the purpose of the IPID isnt meant to list out every eventuality, as ERGO 
says, Im satisfied that it is designed to make sure that customers have essential information 
about the policy in a way thats easy to understand. And I dont think the FCO exclusion is
prominent in the IPID. And the What is not insured section of the IPID doesnt include 
cancellation claims due to FCO advice against all but essential travel.
Further, the FCO exclusion in the policy doesnt specify that no cover is provided for 
cancellation of a holiday in the event of FCO advice changing between the date the policy
was bought and the date on which the policyholder was due to start their trip. I also note that 
cover for cancellation of a holiday in such a situation doesnt appear to have been available 
for Mrs K to purchase as an additional add on or optional extra. 
 
Pages 5 and 6 of the terms and conditions of the policy contain a table of benefits which 
reflects that there is cover for cancelling a trip. For the level of insurance Mrs K bought, the 
limit of cover is £2,000. The same information is contained within the IPID, as set out above. 
The policy document, policy summary and IPID also refer a consumer to their policy 
documents for the full terms and conditions of the contract. This means that a consumer 
would need to go further into the detail of the policy wording to establish whether they were 
able to claim if they had to cancel their trip because of changes to FCO guidance after theyd 
bought their policy. And even when a consumer reaches pages 22 and 23 of the policys 
terms and conditions - which sets out the available cover if their trip is cancelled  a claim 
arising from a change in FCO advice isnt listed as a specific exclusion. Instead, this section 
is silent on whether this is something which is covered under the cancellation section of the 
policy. 
Further, I think the section on the policy explaining what will be covered if the consumer is 
unable to travel, on page 22, is in plain English. But the FCO exclusion isnt presented in the 
same place. Its earlier in the policy document at page 14 and, even then, theres only 
reference to Active Participation not being covered. And the consumer would need to cross 
refer back to page 9 for a definition of this to comprehend how these terms all interrelated to 
one another, and to understand the effect of the FCO exclusion.
So, I dont think it would be obvious to a consumer that there would be no cover under the 
policy if FCO advice changed in respect of their destination after they purchased their policy. And even with a cooling-off period, I think a consumer might not be able to easily understand 
the full effect of the policy. I think the way the cancellation section of cover and the FCO 
exclusion under the other sections of the policy are presented separately means their 
combined effect isnt clear in this case. 
In the circumstances, I think this is unfair and results in a significant imbalance between 
Mrs K and ERGO. Mrs K was left with limited cover when the FCO advice changed. 
Whereas if the trip was cancelled because of the change in FCO advice, she wasnt covered 
at all. This shifted the rights and obligations under the contract significantly in ERGOs 
favour. 
Im not satisfied that the terms and conditions properly took Mrs Ks interests into
account, and - if shed realised that was how the policy would operate - Im not persuaded 
she wouldve freely agreed to a policy that left her with such limited cover in these 
circumstances.
So, overall, I think the way the information about the cover available under this policy is
presented is not fair, and ERGO isnt acting in the best interests of Mrs K, as its customer, 
when presenting the information in this way. 
As such, I dont think ERGO has fairly and reasonably concluded that Mrs Ks claim isnt 
covered on the basis that it isnt detailed as an insured peril under the cancellation section of 
the policys terms and conditions. 
When making this finding, I accept that its not practical for the terms and conditions of a 
policy  or an IPID  to list every possible insured peril and/or every possible exclusion. Ive 
also considered that its common for the cancellation section of travel insurance policies to 
list the specific insured perils that are covered. However, the issue Im considering here is 
whether I think the specific exclusion from cover of cancellation claims arising from a change 
in FCO travel advice was clearly sign-posted to Mrs K in this particular case based on the 
policy documentation. And I dont think it was. 
Ive also taken into account ERGOs point that if someone should be covered when
their holiday is cancelled due to a reason listed as a general exclusion then theres a 
suggestion that ERGO should be covering an insured person if their holiday was cancelled 
as a result of another general exclusion. I dont agree that the reasons for me upholding this 
complaint do suggest that. Ive considered the merits of this complaint based on the reason 
put forward by ERGO to decline the claim. And for the reasons set out above, I dont think 
ERGO has fairly and reasonably declined the claim on the basis that the reason why Mrs Ks 
trip was cancelled wasnt listed as a specific insured peril under the cancellation section of 
the policy in this particular case. 
Im satisfied the combined effect of the policy terms and IPID in this case means it wasnt 
made reasonably clear or obvious to a reasonable policyholder that theyd have no cover 
under the policy if they travelled against FCO advice. And nor was it made reasonably clear 
that theres no cover in place at all if Mrs Ks travel plans were cancelled on the basis of 
FCO advice changing in between buying the policy and her intended departure date, as is 
what happened here.
Putting things right
I direct ERGO assess Mrs Ks claim as if it is covered as an insured peril under the 
cancellation section the policy, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy  
including (but not limited to) the financial limits of the policy, and the applicable excess.My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ks complaint. I direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to put things right by doing 
what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman