DRN-2872308
The complaint
Miss P complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) are over charging   
for repairs to her car acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement. She accepts the damage 
but would like a fairer charge. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
- Miss P says she was aware of the damage to the bumper and intended to fix this but 
didnt have time. I dont know when the damage occurred but as Miss P knew she 
would be liable for this work its possible she had time post damage and pre 
collection to arrange a repair. Its also possible, had she had done so, she might 
have found the bumper did need replacing rather than just, as she feels, the grille. 
- Miss P has given us a quote from an approved dealer to supply and replace the 
grille. I appreciate the £81.40 quoted is considerably less than the £879 BMWFS is 
charging to replace the whole bumper. Miss Ps quote doesnt confirm that only the 
grille needs replacing. Also, I am not sure if the dealer saw Miss Ps car. If not, I think 
it would have been hard to assess what repairs were actually needed.
- I have queried the replacement bumper and charges noted on the report for 
scratches and chips to the bumper (£90). BMWFS has confirmed it has only charged 
for the replacement bumper which, it has reiterated, does need to be replaced.
- Whilst  its clear there was damage, its not clear to me  from the photos if this 
required the bumper to be replaced or not. Miss P told us the inspector said he noted 
front bumper damage on the report as he couldnt note damage to the grille. but the 
report also states the required action is replacing. Other items on the report are 
noted as refurb. If only part of the bumper needed repairing, I might have expected 
that wording instead. I appreciate the report notes that Miss P didnt agree with its 
findings. But the report clearly states the bumper needs replacing, the photos show 
some damage, BMWFS has confirmed that the bumper did need replacing and whilst 
I have noted what a dealer told Miss P I have no evidence the dealer inspected the 
car or confirmed that only the grille needed replacing. Taking all of this information 
together I think its reasonable to conclude that its fair for BMWFS to charge for the 
bumper to be replaced
- I have noted that BMWFS paid £50 into Miss Ps agreement as compensation for 
some issues with vehicle collection. As the collection date changed , doubtless 
causing some  inconvenience  I think this was reasonable. But I havent seen any 
information that leads me to feel more compensation should be paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman