DRN-1518939
 
The complaint
 Mr. S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund £720 for services he 
says he didnt get. He would like a refund of the £720
What happened
Mr. S says he took out a contract with a crane hire company in February 2019 at an agreed 
price he says of £420 inclusive of VAT. He says he wasnt happy with the service he 
received as he had to pay for someone else to finish the job. And £720 was debited from his 
account which he says he didnt agree to.
Mr. S says he complained to Barclays, but it rejected his complaint as the invoice was in Mr. 
Ss company name which invalidated any Section 75 claim. Mr. S feels if this is the case the 
crane company needs to seek payment from his company not from himself.
Barclays said it couldnt progress a Section 75 claim as the invoice was in the ,name of a 
limited company which wasnt covered under Section 75. Also, that there was no debtor  
creditor -supplier relationship needed for a Section 75 claim, as the contract was between 
the company and the merchant not Mr. S.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr. Ss complaint. She considered both a chargeback and 
Section 75 claim. She found no grounds for mis representation to justify a chargeback 
request. And that the necessary debtor- creditor- supplier chain wasnt valid for a Section 75 
claim since Mr. S made the payment on a personal credit card, but the invoice was to his 
business.
Barclays accepted this view, but Mr. S didnt. He said he entered into a contract for £420 
including VAT not for £720.  He said the invoice was raised some 10-12 days after he 
agreed to the lower amount. The contract wasnt fulfilled due to the ill health of the operator, 
so he felt the contract became void.  
Mr. S asked for a copy of the contract and invoice. He said he had never signed a contract. 
And when he received a copy of the invoice, he noted this was in his company name so 
there was no evidence he had given permission for money to be taken from his personal 
account. He then asked for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr. S has told us he doesnt believe he took out a contract with the merchant since he didnt 
sign anything. Also, that he didnt give permission for money to be taken from his personal 
account. I dont agree with either of these statements. I agree Mr. S didnt sign an actual 
contract however he paid for services so that does imply a contract between himself and the 
crane hire company. And Mr. S has told us he did agree to pay, using his personal account, 
for the crane hire. Its just he says he didnt agree the actual sum taken. He says he agreed 
a lower amount.
Its clear to me that Mr. S paid for a service  the issue is whether Barclays should have 
recovered some or all the money he paid on the basis Mr. S says he didnt get the service he 
paid for, and he paid more than he agreed. 
As our investigator has explained when consumers have problems with goods or services 
supplied there are two routes, they can take to try to resolve a dispute.
The first one is the Chargeback scheme. This is a voluntary scheme that banks dont have to 
adhere to. They have the discretion to put a claim forward or not. If they do put one forward 
its expected, they have enough information to believe it might be successful. I can see from 
Barclays notes that it did consider a charge back request. But it didnt feel it had enough 
evidence to show an overcharge or that a service wasnt provided. On that basis it decided 
not to pursue a charge back claim.
Ive seen the invoice for £720 that Barclays also saw when it made its decision. The invoice 
notes a charge for crane hire and for an additional person. From the correspondence 
between the merchant and Mr. S its clear another individual was involved with the work. Its 
also clear there is a difference between Mr. S and the merchant as to why that other 
individual had to be brought into help. The charge for an extra person seems to me to 
explain the difference between what Mr. S says he expected to pay and what was debited 
from his account.
But I dont feel Barclays was wrong not to pursue a charge back request. I think the invoice 
shows Mr. S was charged for what he got on the day. But I think Barclays was entitled to 
conclude the claim would not have succeeded given the information it had. 
The second route to resolve a dispute is by a Section 75 claim which Barclays also rightly 
considered. In this case there needs to be a breach of contract or misrepresentation. But 
there are some criteria that need to be met. Section 75 doesnt cover claims where the 
agreement is wholly or mainly for business use. The invoice is in a company name not Mr. 
Ss name. And from the correspondence Ive seen I am persuaded the services were for 
business use.
But even if that were not the case there also needs to be a valid debtor - creditor  supplier 
(DCS) relationship for a Section 75 claim to succeed. The creditor is Barclays, the supplier 
the merchant but the debtor is the company to whom the goods were supplied. But as the 
service was paid for by Mr. S that unfortunately breaks the DCS link.
 
I can appreciate Mr. S thinks if he accepts the debtor  creditor  supplier point that means 
the money should be recovered from the company not from himself. However, Mr. S paid for 
the services with his personal credit card so its not a mistake that the money was debited 
from that account.
Ive also noted the comments Mr. S has made about the address on the invoice. I dont think 
that is relevant since there I doesnt seem to be any dispute that the invoice is made out to 
the correct company.
So, whilst I appreciate its not the conclusion Mr. S wanted, I dont feel that Barclays were 
wrong not to pursue a Section 75 claim. 
So, I dont feel I can reasonably ask Barclays to refund the money Mr. S feels was wrongly 
taken from his account.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman