DRN-3046047
The complaint
Mr S complains that BUPA Insurance Limited wouldnt allow him to upgrade his private 
medical insurance policy. Hes also unhappy about the service he received from BUPA.
BUPA has taken over responsibility for Mr Ss policy from a previous insurer, and has liability 
for the actions of that previous insurer. For ease, Ill refer to both those parties as BUPA in 
this decision.
What happened
Mr S held a policy with BUPA (Ill call that Policy A). In 2010, BUPA offered members of that 
policy the opportunity to switch to another policy (Ill call that Policy B). Mr S didnt switch 
his cover to Policy B at that time. 
In 2019, Mr S spoke with BUPA about the possibility of switching his policy to Policy B. He 
was told that, because he had an ongoing claim, BUPA wouldnt allow him to do so. 
Unhappy with this (and some other matters), Mr S brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought BUPA had acted 
fairly.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPA has explained to Mr S that insurance is designed to cover speculative risks. It said 
that the reason it wouldnt allow him to switch to Policy B was because he had an ongoing 
claim, and so it thought there was a known risk that its financial liability would increase. 
Thats because he wanted to switch from a policy with limited outpatient benefit to a policy 
with unlimited outpatient benefit.
I think BUPA gave Mr S a sufficient explanation for its reasoning behind not allowing him to 
switch. As our investigator has explained, the decision not to allow Mr S to switch to Policy B 
was a commercial decision that BUPA was entitled to make.
Mr S says he thinks BUPA has breached the Equality Act 2010. This isnt for me to decide, 
and is instead the role of a court. But I do need to take into account the law when deciding 
whether BUPA has treated Mr S fairly, which would include the Equality Act 2010. 
The Act sets out protected characteristics, including disability. One of Mr Ss conditions is 
considered a disability. Though my understanding is that Mr S didnt have that diagnosis at 
the time he asked to switch his cover. He was under investigation for another health 
condition at the time. The Act says a person has a disability if they have a physical or mental 
impairment, and this has a substantial and long-term adverse effect on the persons ability to 
carry out normal day-to-day activities. 
Although I know that Mr S had a physical health condition, I dont know if that condition 
affected his ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities. I therefore dont have enough 
information to say whether or not Mr S had a disability at the time. 
Though even if Mr S did have a disability at the time, under the Equality Act 2010, insurers 
are able to take into account a persons disability if this is relevant to the assessment of the 
risk to be insured, and its reasonable to do so. I therefore dont think BUPA treated Mr S 
unfairly by refusing to allow him to switch to a different policy due to the risk that he 
presented.
Mr S says at no point has BUPA offered him a suitable alternative to Policy A since taking 
out the policy. However, BUPA did offer members of Policy A the option to switch to Policy B 
in 2010. I appreciate Mr S doesnt recall receiving the letter, but given that it was sent over 
ten years ago, that isnt unexpected. 
After a phone call took place between Mr S and BUPA, Mr S was unhappy that BUPAs 
adviser wanted to know why he hadnt switched to Policy B previously. Although Mr S says 
he thought the adviser was directing blame at him for not switching previously, I dont think 
that was the case. 
Mr S says Policy A isnt fit for purpose as he thinks the outpatient benefit is inadequate. 
In 2021, BUPA moved Mr S from Policy A to another policy with BUPA, though this had 
similar benefits to Policy A (including the same outpatient limit).
I recognise that Mr S was in a difficult position. He was unhappy with the outpatient cover he 
held under Policy A (and now holds under the BUPA policy), but if he had applied for cover 
elsewhere, then his existing conditions likely wouldnt be covered. Thats extremely 
unfortunate, but I dont think BUPA has done anything wrong. It has provided cover in line 
with the policy terms and conditions that were offered at each renewal, and that Mr S had 
accepted.
Mr S has also complained about BUPA sending him an email on a weekend which asked 
him to confirm his policy number. Like our investigator, I dont think theres anything wrong 
with an insurer sending an email on a weekend, particularly when its trying to progress a 
members claim. Though in this instance, BUPA accepts that it hadnt needed to send the 
email because it couldve found out Mr Ss policy number from the information hed already 
provided. BUPA therefore apologised to Mr S for sending him the email, and I think that 
response was reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman