DRN-3696653
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont refund him some of the money he paid for some 
removal services.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter last month, part of which is copied below:
Mr C used his Lloyds Bank credit card to pay about £1,400 to a removals company to 
provide removal services. He wasnt happy with the service provided. He said several items 
had gone missing during the move. He estimated the value of the items at about £500 and 
he asked for a refund. 
The removals company said Mr C should have contacted them within 7 days of the move as 
per the terms and conditions hed agreed to. They said they were unable to assist and didnt 
provide a refund. Mr C claimed a refund from Lloyds Bank under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 and the chargeback rules. 
Lloyds Bank made a chargeback claim but it was defended by the removals company for the 
reasons given above. Lloyds Bank then considered Mr Cs claim under section 75 but it 
didnt think the removals company had breached its contract with Mr C or that it had 
misrepresented what he received. But Lloyds Bank accepted it had provided a poor service 
when Mr C called to discuss his account and the call cut out. So, it paid him £50 
compensation.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with its response, or the service provided, so complained to this 
service. He said he hadnt seen the terms and conditions the removals company had 
referred to. And he was shocked when Lloyds Bank had refunded £500 to the removals 
company.
Our investigator thought Lloyds Bank had acted fairly and in line with the rules set out in 
section 75. He thought it was likely Mr C had seen the terms and conditions and hed signed 
the contract to say hed agreed to them. He thought the £50 provided by Lloyds Bank for 
poor customer service was fair. And he also thought it had acted fairly in removing £500 
from Mr Cs account once it had decided not to pursue the chargeback any further.
Mr C doesnt agree. He says Lloyds Bank removed the £500 without consultation. He said 
he hadnt received, seen or read the removal companys terms and conditions. And he said 
Lloyds Bank hadnt acknowledged the poor service hed received. He said the £50 
compensation was for not receiving a statement hed asked for on a number of occasions. 
What Ive provisionally decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator but for slightly different 
reasons. Let me explain.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a process provided by the relevant card scheme  in this case Mastercard. It 
allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if theres a problem with the goods 
or services theyve paid for. Theres no automatic right to a chargeback. Nor is chargeback a 
guaranteed method of getting a refund.
Lloyds Bank made a chargeback claim to the removals company but they defended the 
claim for the reasons set out above. Lloyds Bank could have pursued the matter further with 
the chargeback scheme providers but Id only expect it to do so if it felt there was a 
reasonable prospect of success. 
Was there a reasonable prospect of success? I dont think so. Lloyds Bank didnt think it was 
able to assist Mr C any further because of the removal companys terms and conditions. 
Those said that any loss or damage needed to be notified to the removal company within 
seven days of the removal. And the removal company said Mr C had contacted it after seven 
days. Lloyds Bank acknowledged that Mr C said hed called the removals company earlier 
but it said it would need evidence of that, which he wasnt able to supply. So, on balance, I 
think it was fair for Lloyds Bank not to pursue the chargeback claim any further as it felt there 
was no reasonable prospect of success.    
Section 75
Lloyds Bank also considered Mr Cs request for a refund under section 75. In certain 
circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer rights to claim against the creditor if theres 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
To be able to uphold Mr Cs complaint about Lloyds Bank, I must be satisfied theres been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the removals company and that Lloyds Banks 
response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not determining the 
outcome of Mr Cs claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that.
As Ive said above, the terms and conditions of Mr Cs contract with the removals company 
says that he must notify them of any loss or damage within 7 days of the removal, unless an 
extension of that time limit has been agreed. I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr C 
made a claim to the removal company within that time period. Indeed, it would seem he 
contacted them after about 32 days.
Mr C says he never received any documents from the removals company and he wasnt 
aware he had seven days to register his claim. The evidence Ive seen shows Mr C 
confirmed and accepted the terms and conditions on the same day he paid for their services.
In light of the above Im not persuaded there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the removals company. So, I think Lloyds Banks response to Mr Cs claim under section 
75 was fair and reasonable. 
Claim handling
When Lloyds Bank initially raised a chargeback claim, it applied a temporary credit of £500 
to Mr Cs account. Mr C wasnt happy that it then removed that £500 from his account. But I 
think that was a reasonable thing to do once the chargeback was unsuccessful.
Lloyds Bank has accepted it provided a poor service to Mr C and its paid him £50 compensation. It said Mr C wasnt happy that a call cut out when he was talking to one of its 
advisers as he thought the adviser had ended the call on purpose. Lloyds Bank listened to 
the call and while it didnt think the adviser ended the call deliberately, it couldnt prove that. 
So, it decided to accept it as an error.
Mr C has said the £50 was for something else but the evidence Ive seen indicates it was for 
the dropped call. And I think that amount is reasonable compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused by the poor service its accepted.
Summary
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mr Cs experienced but I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask Lloyds Bank to refund any of the money he paid to the removals 
company, or to pay him any more compensation. 
My provisional decision
Lloyds Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc should pay £50 if it hasnt done so already.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds Bank said it didnt have anything further to add aside from confirming it had paid the 
£50 to Mr C in December 2021. Mr C didnt agree with my decision. He said Lloyds Bank 
had removed the £500 from his account without consultation and hadnt sent him the 
information it had received from the removals company. He repeated his belief that Lloyds 
gave him the £50 for a separate matter. He said moving house is a stressful affair and it was 
unreasonable for the removals company to only give him seven days to report his losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, I think it was fair for Lloyds Bank to remove the £500 
from Mr Cs account once the chargeback claim was unsuccessful. And Im satisfied from 
the evidence Ive seen that the £50 Lloyds Bank paid Mr C was for the dropped call, as 
noted above. Ive noted what Mr C has said about Lloyds not providing him with the 
information it received from the removals company. But this didnt form part of the complaint 
Mr C raised with this service and Id suggest he contact Lloyds if he wants to pursue that 
matter further. 
I recognise that moving house can be stressful and Im sorry to hear about the difficulties 
Mr C experienced. But, having considered the points made by Mr C and Lloyds Bank, Im not 
persuaded to change my findings. Im satisfied Lloyds Bank handled Mr Cs claim for a 
refund fairly and reasonably under both the chargeback rules and section 75. 
My final decision
Lloyds Bank Plc has already paid Mr C £50 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair 
in all the circumstances. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman