DRN-3217711
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco), 
hasnt done enough to recover money he paid using his Tesco credit card.
Although many of the products and services dealt with in this decision were in the name of 
Mr C and his wife, as the credit card used was Mr Cs alone, only he is able to bring this 
complaint. So I will refer to him throughout.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr C says that he received a call from a timeshare reclaim company 
(Business R) that said it would be able to make a successful claim on his behalf for money 
he lost by being a member of a failed holiday club. He said he was told he needed to fly to 
Tenerife to speak about his claim, but the company would provide four nights of 
accommodation if he paid for the flights. This would be paid for by taking 20% of the 
compensation received.
Following that call, Mr C flew to Tenerife to make his claim. He stayed in the accommodation 
provided and, when there, was provided a letter dated 29 March 2019 which said a meeting 
was arranged for 1 April to discuss the claim.
Mr C says that the meeting was in two parts. The first part was held in a caf where the 
claim was discussed. In the afternoon, Mr C went to the offices of a different business (the 
Supplier) to sign the paperwork, where the meeting changed into a selling process. Mr C 
described this meeting as very pressured and after several hours he was persuaded to buy a 
package of things at a cost of €5,800.74. This included a charge for the accommodation he 
used at €1,693.60  the agreement said this accommodation was between 28 March and 4 
April 2019, i.e. seven nights.
The following month, Mr C approached Tesco about the purchase, to see if he could get his 
money back. Tesco processed a chargeback, which was a way of recovering money 
through the credit card scheme when someone doesnt get what they should after making a 
purchase. But Tesco didnt claim back the full £5,140.16 paid, rather it only claimed for the 
unused part of the agreement, i.e. £3,679.85. It said to Mr C that it couldnt claim back 
everything as hed signed something to say hed used accommodation between 28 March 
and 4 April 2019 at a cost of £1,460.31.
Mr C complained to Tesco about what it had done, saying it should have claimed back the 
full purchase price. It responded in June 2019 to say it thought it was likely the Supplier 
would contest any chargeback, saying that it had provided some services under the contact. 
If that happened, it would have to then repay some of the money back to the Supplier. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr C brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think Tesco had done anything 
wrong. But then a different investigator considered things again and came to a different view. 
He thought Tesco should have considered a claim under s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA), as that covered what Mr C was concerned about. He thought Mr C was on a 
free trip and not going with any expectation of being sold anything. But when there, a sales 
process took place that ended up with Mr C buying services from the Supplier. Our 
investigator said it wasnt clear precisely what Mr C was signing up for, but he thought there 
were representations that the Supplier would get substantial compensation for the old 
holiday club membership. He thought this was central to Mr Cs decision to buy anything 
from the Supplier. But Mr C contacted Tesco shortly after the trip to dispute the payments 
and our investigator didnt think Mr C had any interest in buying a further holiday product. 
Our investigator concluded that there had been a misrepresentation that the accommodation 
was being supplied free of charge and that hed get substantial compensation from a claim. 
But for these misrepresentations, he didnt think Mr C would have travelled to Tenerife or 
paid anything to the Supplier.
Tesco responded to say it didnt think there were the right sort of arrangements in place for 
Mr C to make a s.75 CCA claim. Thats because Mr C paid the Supplier, but the initial 
contact came from Business R, which was a different entity. So representations made before 
Mr C went to Tenerife werent made by the Supplier.
As Tesco didnt agree with our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.
Having considered everything, I thought Tesco didnt need to do anything further to settle 
this complaint. So I issued a provisional decision, setting out why I came to the conclusion I 
did and invited both parties to comment on what Id said.
I explained that when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, I 
made my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, meant I based it 
on what I thought was most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
There was no evidence from the Supplier or Business R, and the only evidence there was 
from the time of sale was from Mr C. He provided all of the documentation from the time of 
sale, along with his memories. So when considering this claim, that was the only evidence 
available. I was mindful that his memories may not be an accurate representation of the 
precise sales process as memories are imperfect. So I had to weigh all of that up when 
deciding what I thought most likely happened. I did not think it was unfair to Tesco for me to 
do this  ultimately I must decide the complaint in front of me based on the evidence 
available. 
Having considered everything, I didnt think Tesco needed to do anything further to settle 
Mr Cs complaint. I said this had been a difficult complaint to deal with, something reflected 
in the fact that two of our investigators came to different conclusions. And I thought it was 
important to set out my role wasnt to decide whether something went wrong in the 
arrangements between Mr C, Business R and the Supplier, rather it was to determine 
whether Tesco needed to pay anything to Mr C arising out of those arrangements. 
When considering this complaint, I thought it was important to set out what evidence I had 
and then to say what I found Mr C agreed to and with which business. I then considered any 
legal claims that Tesco needed to consider, given the legal relationships between the 
parties. 
The evidence
Mr C provided an email he received on 4 February 2019 from Business R, setting out details 
of what was agreed in the call he had with the timeshare reclaim company. It said that the 
claim would be made on a NO WIN NO FEE basis, with up to seven nights of free accommodation being given in Tenerife  the email went on to say NO timeshare 
accommodation options used, so you will not be pestered whilst you are here. The email 
said All refunds will be settled in full into a bank account of your choice, within a maximum 
of 60 days (Through our third-party associates). It was implied in the email that there were 
tax implications of doing the deal in Tenerife, so it worked out better value for Mr C to go 
there than arrange the claim at home and that it had a 100% success rate.
I also saw a number of documents from the time of sale. These all had the Suppliers name 
on them, which was a different business to Business R. There was an accommodation 
contract that set out what Mr C bought. It was for three weeks of accommodation (seven 
nights per week), in the Canary Islands. The total cost was €5,800.74 (or £5,000). The 
agreement said these weeks were pre-paid, meaning the contract wasnt refundable. 
The three weeks of accommodation were each given a price, being £1,460 for the first, 
£1,650 for the second and £1,890 for the third, totalling £5,000. Mr C booked the second 
week of holiday for October 2019 and the third in January 2020.
As well as the price of accommodation, as set out above, Mr C was provided with a number 
of other things from the Supplier. He was told he was entitled to five worldwide holidays of 
seven nights free accommodation, plus return flights up to £250. But before he could use 
these, he had to use a week of accommodation in the Canary Islands. And Mr C was given a 
certificate saying he was to be given 1,000 Sovereigns, although it wasnt clear to me what 
these were.
I saw a document signed on 19 February 2019, that said the reservation for Tenerife was 
made on that date. I wasnt convinced about the validity of this document, as Mr C said he 
only spoke with someone on the phone and didnt sign anything before he got to Tenerife. 
Further, the document was on the Suppliers headed paper, but I couldnt see that Mr C had 
any contact with the Supplier before 1 April 2019. So I thought this was likely signed at the 
time of sale despite the date on the document.
Mr C and his wife also provided their memories of the sale. Mr and Mrs C explained that 
Mrs C spoke on the phone with Business R and she was told they would be put up in an 
apartment for free in Tenerife, but they would have to pay for their flights. They were offered 
a week-long holiday, but they could only go for four days. Mrs C was told the cost of travel 
from the airport to the apartment would be refunded, but that didnt happen in practice.
Mr and Mrs C couldnt remember what Business R said about who they would meet when 
they were in Tenerife or whether they would have to meet with another business. They said 
Business R told them that they wouldnt to sell them anything. Mrs C said she asked whether 
they could sign up to the claim over the phone, but they were told they had to attend 
personally in Tenerife.
When they arrived in Tenerife, they went to the apartment and found it was run down and of 
poor quality. They also found out they could have booked it themselves for around £200.
Mr and Mrs C described the meetings they had on 1 April 2019. They said the conversation 
started about getting their money back, but the meeting lasted all day and they were pushed 
into taking out a holiday product. Mr and Mrs C described a strange setup and it was unclear 
who was offering what to them. Mr C described a pressured selling environment where he 
didnt feel they had a real choice in paying for the accommodation.
Mrs C said that, with hindsight, she realised the people were from different companies. 
Finally, Mr C said he tried to cancel it straight away when they were still over in Tenerife, but 
they couldnt do it. What Tesco did
Tesco made a chargeback claim as detailed above, recovering £3,679.85 of what was paid. 
Having considered everything, I thought it acted fairly in doing that and I didnt think it should 
have claimed the full amount under the chargeback scheme.
Under a chargeback, the lending bank (here Tesco) can make a claim to get funds back 
through the credit card scheme. But if the receiving bank (here the Suppliers bank) disputes 
it, the matter can then be looked at by the credit card scheme under its own rules. 
Here Tesco thought that, as Mr and Mrs C had signed to say theyd used the first week of 
accommodation paid for, any request to get that back would fail. Having considered 
everything, I agreed that was a reasonable position for Tesco to take. I understood why Mr C 
disagreed with that, but I thought Tesco acted properly to put forward the most likely reasons 
for a chargeback to succeed. 
But Tesco didnt consider a claim under s.75 CCA and I agreed with our investigator that it 
should have done so. But, for reasons I explained, I didnt think it was unfair for Tesco to 
decline the claim.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Under s.75 CCA, a lender (here Tesco) can be jointly responsible to a borrower (here Mr C) 
for a suppliers misrepresentations or breaches of contract if the supplier was paid using 
credit. So here, Tesco needed to consider whether it was jointly liable for the things done by 
either Business R or the Supplier.
Only the Supplier was paid by Mr C using his credit card  nothing was paid to Business R. 
So it was only a breach of the contracts between Mr C and the Supplier that could be looked 
at or misrepresentations by the Supplier (or on its behalf) that caused him a loss. 
Mr C hadnt set out any representations made by the Supplier that turned out to be untrue. 
And the things said by Business R were said on the phone to Mrs C and I couldnt see they 
caused Mr C to enter into an agreement with the Supplier several weeks later. So I didnt 
think there was an actionable misrepresentation that Tesco could be jointly liable to answer.
I also looked at the agreement between Mr C and the Supplier. Again, I couldnt see that 
Mr C didnt get anything he was entitled to under the agreement, here specifically the 
accommodation in Tenerife between 28 March and 4 April 2019. I understood that Mr C was 
led to believe by Business R that hed get the accommodation for free and that he was only 
able to use four days of the accommodation, but that didnt mean the Supplier breached its 
agreement with Mr C. So I didnt think there was a breach of contract for which Tesco could 
be jointly liable.
In conclusion, although I understood why Mr C felt strongly something had gone wrong here, 
due to the way the credit card was used, I didnt think Tesco needed to do anything further.
Tesco responded to say it had nothing further to add. Mr C didnt respond to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As Ive not been provided with anything further, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman