DRN-3305006
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Rock Insurance Services Limited (Rock) mis-sold them their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L originally booked their holiday for the two of them and their three children. 
However due to announcements made regarding upcoming travel restrictions, Mr L called 
the travel provider on 2 October 2020 to reschedule the holiday.  
The holiday was rescheduled for travel on 18 October 2020 and to return on 25 October 
2020. In the same call, Mr L took out a single trip travel insurance policy. He says the 
advisor said they would be covered for Covid-19 if a traveller couldnt go on the holiday and 
was instructed to self-isolate because they tested positive.
On 16 October 2020, Mr and Mrs L were notified by the school that their son had been 
identified as being in contact with someone whod tested positive for Covid-19. Their son 
needed to self-isolate, so he remained at home with a family member. Mr and Mrs L went 
ahead with the trip with their other two children.
On their return, Mr and Mrs L made a claim to their insurer for the cost of their sons portion 
of the holiday that he couldnt go on. The claim was declined because the insurer said there 
was no cover for what happened. Mr and Mrs L believe they were mis-sold the travel 
insurance policy.
They say the travel provider recorded an incorrect email address which meant that Mr L 
didnt receive the email that included all the policy documents. The documents would have 
informed them of the cover available. But because he hadnt received the email, he didnt 
know what cover he had under the policy. Mr L says had he known there was no cover for 
self-isolation, he wouldnt have taken the travel policy.
Mr and Mrs L made a complaint to Rock. It responded and said it hadnt mis-sold the policy 
because although the incorrect email address had been recorded, it was Mr and Mrs Ls 
responsibility to ensure they received and read the policy documents. Rock said there was 
no discussion about the specifics of the Covid-19 cover available under the policy. There 
was also no discussion about whether there was any cover for self-isolation following being 
in contact with someone who had tested positive.
Unhappy with Rocks response, Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint. She didnt uphold it. She said, having considered 
everything, she didnt think there was any evidence that Rock mis-sold the policy. 
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me.
In summary, Mr and Mrs L say:
Mr Ls email address was double checked to ensure it was correct.
He was told the insurance covered Covid-19.
They would have moved the holiday dates if theyd known they wouldnt get their 
money back.
As they didnt receive the policy documents, they couldnt check to see if they had 
the right cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In regard to complaints about mis-sale, our approach is to look at what happened when the 
policy was bought and if something went wrong, what the impact of that error would be on 
the consumer. 
Was the policy mis-sold?
I understand Mr L has a telephone conversation with the travel provider and during this call 
an offer to purchase the travel insurance policy was made. Ive listened to the call made on 
2 October 2020. The holiday was rescheduled and once this was done, the advisor asked if 
Mr L required travel insurance. A family policy was offered on the basis of a single trip for a 
premium of £36. The advisor confirmed Covid cover was included also. Mr L agreed to take 
this out. During the conversation, the advisor checked Mr Ls email address and it was 
confirmed as correct.
With regards to the policy documents, the advisor confirmed Mr L would receive a full copy 
of the policy wording and the insurance certificate by email within 24 to 48 hours. She also 
confirmed that Mr L had 14 days to decide if he wanted to take the policy and if he decided 
to cancel, he would receive the full premium refund as long as he hadnt made a claim on 
the policy. The advisor asked if Mr L was happy to proceed based on the limited information 
provided and he confirmed he was.
Based on the above conversation, I cant see any evidence that the travel insurance policy 
was mis-sold. The advisor didnt specify anything about the policy except that it had cover for 
Covid. There was no discussion about whether there would be cover in the event self-
isolation would be required after being in contact with someone who tested positive.
So, based on this information, Im not persuaded the policy was mis-sold. 
The impact of the error with the email address
Its clear from the information I have available that Rock made an error with Mr Ls email 
address. Rock has agreed an error was made. 
As theres no dispute between either party that the error happened, Im not proposing to go 
into the detail about why that happened. The error happened and Im going to consider the 
impact of this on Mr and Mrs L. 
Theres no doubt that it was a reasonable expectation for Mr L to have received the email. I 
can see though that the following day on 3 October 2020, Mr L called the travel provider 
because he hadnt received his travel booking confirmation. He was expecting to receive this by email. It was recognised that the email address input by the advisor the previous day was 
incorrect. This was amended on the travel providers database. However, the email address 
remained incorrect on Rocks database and wasnt updated at the same time.  Because of 
this error, Mr L didnt receive his policy documents. 
Bearing in mind that Mr L was concerned about Covid-19, and given that he called on 
3 October 2020 to ask why he hadnt received his travel confirmation, its reasonable to have 
expected Mr L to also ask why he hadnt received his travel policy documents  even more 
so because the advisor had made an error with his email address already. But I cant see 
that he did do this.
I can see Mr L only contacted Rock to ask for his policy documents on 5 November 2020. 
This was after the family returned from their holiday and after his claim for the cost of his 
sons portion of the holiday was declined by the insurer. 
With the above in mind, I dont think the outcome of what happened would have been any 
different. Taking everything into account, I appreciate the error was made with the email 
address. But Im not persuaded ultimately that the resulting effect of that error would have 
changed what happened. Mr L didnt raise the issue with the travel provider when he called 
and only did so when the insurer declined the claim. I understand that Mr L feels strongly 
about what happened but based on the evidence available I cant reasonably say Rock mis-
sold the policy. 
Overall, therefore, I dont think Rock mis-sold Mr and Mrs L their travel insurance policy. It 
follows that I dont require Rock to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint against Rock 
Insurance Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman