DRN-3976662
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard applied a default on his 
credit card account after telling him it wouldnt do so as the account was on hold.
What happened
In March 2022, Barclaycard wrote to Mr D giving notice that it intended to record a default on 
his credit card account. Mr D called Barclaycard in mid-April and an adviser told him 
Barclaycard wouldnt register a default on his credit card account if it was on hold. 
Barclaycard then registered a default on the account later the same month. Mr D complained 
and Barclaycard explained why the default had been applied and apologised that the 
information provided to Mr D in the telephone call was incorrect. Barclaycard told Mr D that 
the adviser whod provided the information had received feedback and offered Mr D £50 for 
the error. 
Shortly after Barclaycard responded, Mr D brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Barclaycard then issued a further response to Mr Ds complaint and 
offered £150 for the distress and inconvenience the error had caused him.
One of our Investigators looked into things and thought that it was reasonable for 
Barclaycard to register the default but thought the apology and an offer of £50 wasnt a fair 
and reasonable remedy for the distress and inconvenience caused when the adviser 
provided the wrong information in the telephone call. The Investigator thought an apology 
and a payment of £150 was a fair and reasonable remedy to Mr Ds complaint, but Mr D 
asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator Ive decided that Barclaycard should pay Mr D £150. I will now explain why and 
address the relevant comments Mr D provided.
Barclaycard issued a notice of default to Mr D in March explaining that as hed missed 
several payments it intended to register a default on the account. This notice included details 
about what would happen next and provided Mr D with several contact numbers to make use 
of if necessary. It also explained the default would be registered in 28 days if Mr D didnt 
catch-up on his repayments. The letter explained Barclaycard was aware of Mr Ds 
circumstances and wasnt expecting him to make a payment. The default notice said 
Barclaycard wouldnt charge any interest or fees until further notice, and that it wouldnt 
expect Mr D to keep in touch. Mr D did contact Barclaycard by telephone after the notice of 
default had been issued, and theres no dispute an adviser told Mr D it wouldnt apply a 
default to the account if it was on hold.
Mr D had missed several payments to the account, so Im satisfied that Barclaycard acted 
reasonably in issuing the notice of default and in registering the default. Barclaycard has an 
obligation to record defaults and other credit information on an account and Im satisfied it 
followed the correct process to do so. Although Barclaycard made a mistake in telling Mr D 
on the telephone it wouldnt register a default, I dont think this is a compelling reason why 
the default should be removed as Barclaycard followed the correct process and it accurately 
reflected payments hadnt been received to the account.
Mr D referred me to other telephone calls from May and December 2021 and I can confirm 
Ive listened to the calls in December. In these calls Mr D says he spoke with Barclaycard 
about his credit card and was also told there would be no default registered even if he didnt 
make a payment. However, I dont consider telephone calls from 2021 are relevant to the 
complaint Mr D has made about the notice of default and the subsequent telephone 
conversation call in April 2022. This is because the letter Barclaycard sent to Mr D in March 
2022 provided an explanation why a default notice was now likely to be registered. So, Im 
satisfied Barclaycard updated Mr D with the action it intended to take and explained why it 
was taking action to register a default.
Mr D is upset that Barclaycard told him that it wouldnt apply a default to the account but 
then proceeded to register a default. In this case, Barclaycard accepted the adviser got this 
wrong, but I dont think the initial offer of £50 from Barclaycard fairly reflected the distress 
and inconvenience this caused Mr D. So, Ive decided that a fair and reasonable remedy in 
the circumstances of this complaint is a payment of £150 as this takes into account Mr Ds 
vulnerabilities at the time.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold the complaint and that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard 
should pay Mr D £150 for the distress and inconvenience its actions caused Mr D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman