DRN-1596753
 
The complaint
Mrs B says Home Retail Group Insurance Services Limited (HRG), mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a store card in 2013. 
background
Mrs B took out a store card online in 2013 and at the same time was sold a PPI policy. Mrs B 
is unhappy about having been sold this and thinks it was mis-sold to her.
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs B disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Both the parties agree that this was a sale that took place online. Ive seen similar sales to 
this one and have seen how the process usually worked. Ive used this knowledge to help 
me think about what happened in this case.
HRG had to make it clear to Mrs B she had a choice in taking the policy and that she 
agreed to take it. HRG have given us a copy of the screenshots of the online application 
form it says Mrs B wouldve seen.
HRG say that in order to proceed with her application she wouldve been required 
to populate one of three options on the application. Within these options was the option to 
take no protection.
HRG sent us an example of what the screens looked like and how the three options would 
have been presented. After seeing this, I think its likely Mrs B would have made her way 
through the online application and selected PPI from the choices given. At that point there 
would have been a brief description of the cover and what it cost and Mrs B would have 
needed to either select for PPI before she would be allowed to progress to the next stage of 
the form.
I think that Mrs B could see she had a choice and could select not to have PPI if she didnt 
want to (she could have selected 'no protection'). So I think she agreed to the policy.
As this was done online, HRG didnt provide a recommendation. This means HRGs duty 
was only to ensure Mrs B had enough information to allow her to make her own decision 
about what she wanted to do. Ive looked carefully over all the paperwork and screenshots relating to the sale. I can see 
ways where the information on the application screens could have been better, but overall I 
think Mrs B had enough information. I think she had access to the price of the PPI and to 
what the policy covered. And even if I acknowledge more could have been done to help her 
decide, this wouldn't change what I think. I think Mrs B wouldve still gone ahead and bought 
the PPI policy.
I say this because the evidence shows that she wanted the PPI. I think she was eligible for 
the cover and not caught by any significant or restrictive terms. The policy cost £1.30 per 
£100 of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Bs card. In my experience, although this is 
higher than some of the policies that were sold with credit and some store cards at the time, 
the level of benefit, if she ever needed to claim, was also substantially higher. This means 
that in the event of needing to claim, Mrs Bs balance wouldve been paid off more quickly. 
Also, Ive seen nothing that suggests Mrs B would have found these monthly charges 
unaffordable.
Mrs B says she didn't have any sick pay or other provisions at the time of sale. In the event 
of a successful claim, Mrs B wouldve been able to have her outstanding balance reduced by 
15% each month. This wouldve been in addition to any means Mrs B already had in place. 
So i think she would have found the cover provided by the policy of use if she needed it.
What Ive seen makes me think its more likely Mrs B agreed to the PPI and the policy was of 
use in her situation. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint and I dont require Home 
Retail Group Insurance Services Limited to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman