DRN-3517367
The complaint
Miss M complains about Studio Retail Limited (SRL) and their decision to sell her account 
to a third-party debt management company (L), leading to a default being placed on her 
credit file.
What happened
Miss M held a credit account with SRL. But Miss M exceeded her credit limit and was unable 
to meet her minimum monthly repayments. So, in 2010, Miss M entered into an arrangement 
with SRL where she agreed to make a token payment of £20 a month. Miss M continued 
with this arrangement until 2017, when SRL took the decision to sell her account and its 
outstanding balance to L. And when L received the account, they took the decision to default 
it, reporting this to Miss Ms credit file. Miss M was unhappy about this, so she raised a 
complaint.
Miss M didnt think SRL were fair to sell her account to L. And she was unhappy that this 
decision led to a default being placed on her credit file in 2017. Miss M thought her account 
shouldve been defaulted by SRL years earlier, in line with guidance from the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) who state an account should be defaulted when an account is 
between three and six months in arrears. Miss M thought that, had SRL followed this 
guidance, the default would no longer be reported on her credit file as more than six years 
wouldve elapsed. So, she wanted the default placed by L to be removed.
SRL responded to Miss Ms complaint and didnt agree. They didnt comment on Miss Ms 
unhappiness with the default and the impact on her credit file. But they did think they had 
sold Miss Ms account to L fairly, in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement Miss 
M entered into. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Miss M remained 
unhappy with this, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought SRL had acted fairly, 
and in line with the terms of the account, when selling Miss Ms account as this was a 
business decision they were allowed to take. But they thought SRL shouldve defaulted Miss 
Ms account by December 2013 at the latest, based on the evidence they had available. So, 
they thought SRL should amend Miss Ms credit file to back date the default to December 
2013, meaning it is no longer reported to credit reference agencies. And they thought they 
should arrange with L for them to amend Miss Ms credit file, so any historic data is removed 
and that no further information is reported.
Miss M accepted this recommendation. But SRL didnt. While they didnt think our 
investigators recommendation was unfair, they didnt think it was one they could action. 
They explained that, as they didnt default Miss Ms account, they didnt believe there was 
anything on Miss Ms credit file to amend as they had reported the management of her 
account accurately. Our investigator re-iterated their belief that SRL hadnt reported to Miss 
Ms credit file fairly as a default shouldve been placed sooner and said that, should SRL 
encounter issues when asking L to amend the credit file, then SRL should buy back the debt 
in order to make the amendments themselves. SRL didnt agree, so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ive first thought about SRLs decision to sell Miss Ms account, as this led to L defaulting the 
account once theyd purchased it. I can see in the terms and conditions of Miss Ms account 
it states that SRL may transfer to any other party any or all of our rights and duties under 
this credit agreement and any time. So, I think SRL acted within the terms of Miss Ms 
account when deciding to sell it and I think it up to them when to do so. Because of this, I 
cant say their decision to sell the account was unfair.
But Ive also thought about the impact the decision to sell the account had on Miss M. And 
its been accepted that L defaulted the account shortly after they received it, reporting this 
default to Miss Ms credit file. But I dont think L shouldve been able to do this.
In SRLs final response letter, they have confirmed Miss M was making a token payment to 
the account of £20 from 2010. But I dont have statements to payment information to confirm 
this. The earliest evidence I have available is from July 2013, where it showed Miss Ms 
outstanding balance was £2,901.42, which significantly exceeded her account limit of 
£1,500. Due to the balance on Miss Ms account, I think its likely that her minimum monthly 
repayment wouldve been around £80-90, based on it being calculated on 3% of the 
balance. And Ive seen at this time, Miss M was only making a payment of £20. So, Im 
satisfied that, based on the evidence available to me, Miss Ms account wouldve been 
building arrears from at the very latest July 2013.
The ICOs guidance explains that a business such as SRL should register a default with 
credit reference agencies when an account is between three and six months in arrears. So, 
based on this guidance, I wouldve expected SRL to have defaulted Miss Ms account by at 
the very latest December 2013. And I cant see they did. So, I dont think the way SRL 
managed Miss Ms account, and reported to her credit file, was fair or reasonable. Because 
of this, Ive thought about what I think SRL should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what I think SRL should do to put things right, any award or direction I 
make is intended to place Miss M back in the position she wouldve been in, had SRL acted 
fairly in the first instance.
In this situation, had SRL acted fairly, I think they wouldve defaulted Miss Ms account by 
December 2013. So, a default wouldve been reported to Miss Ms credit file at this time. As 
an account can only be defaulted once, this wouldve meant that, when L purchased Miss 
Ms account, they wouldnt have been able to report a default to Miss Ms credit file in 2017. 
And due to the length of time that has elapsed since 2013, the default would no longer be 
showing on Miss Ms credit file. 
So, to put things right, I think the default placed by L needs to be removed. And I think SRL 
need to backdate the default on Miss Ms credit file to 2013, so a default for this account no 
longer shows on her credit file if she attempts to apply for additional credit in the future.I recognise SRL believe they are unable to follow this direction. But I dont agree. If SRL are 
unable to work with L to ensure the removal of the default, I think SRL should have the ability 
to buy the account back and to make the credit file amendments themselves. I also 
appreciate SRLs comments surrounding their belief they reported to Miss Ms credit file 
accurately. But reporting Miss Ms situation accurately doesnt mean this was a fair 
representation. As Ive explained above, I am of the view that Miss Ms account shouldve 
been defaulted sooner and so, I cant say the information currently being shown on Miss Ms 
credit file is a fair representation. So, I think this needs to be amended.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint about Studio Retail Limited and 
I direct them to take the following action:
Amend Miss Ms credit file to back date the default to December 2013, which should 
result in it no longer being reported to credit reference agencies; and
Arrange a plan that ensures L remove the default from Miss Ms credit file and that no 
further reporting is undertaken.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman