DRN-4051468
The complaint
Mr F says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
Mr F took out a loan for £1,500 over 18 months on 19 December 2019. The monthly 
repayments were £165.51 and the total repayable was £2,979.18. He says the loan was not 
affordable.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. He said ELL ought to have completed 
better checks but had it done so it could reasonably have concluded the loan was affordable 
for Mr F.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr F asked for an ombudsmans review. He said, in 
summary, his mental health was such that he was financially vulnerable and didnt 
understand what he was agreeing to. He said ELL should have seen he had unpaid payday 
loans and a history of financial mismanagement. He said he has recently been diagnosed 
with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) which is pertinent here as it prevents him from 
understanding complex documents and managing his money effectively.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mr F required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability
check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr F. In
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr F.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mr F. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Fs loan
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did ELL make fair lending decisions?
did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr F before it approved the loan. It asked
for details of his income and checked this. It asked for copies of recent bank statements. It 
estimated his living costs using national statistics and added a buffer to cover unexpected 
costs. It also checked Mr Fs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit 
commitments and credit history. It asked about the purpose of the loan which was for 
Christmas costs. From these checks combined ELL concluded Mr F could afford to take on 
the loan as he would have £584.04 monthly disposable income left.
Whilst I think these checks were proportionate, I am not persuaded ELL reacted 
appropriately to the information it gathered. Its affordability assessment was based on an 
income of £1,993.04 but his bank statements showed it was closer to £1,753, but there were 
also payments in of around £490 each month which appear to be partner contributions to 
household costs. It also could have checked his actual costs as it had his bank statements. 
And it needed to ensure tis assumptions about his credit card repayments were sustainable 
and not just the minimum repayments. Had it used these inputs into its affordability 
assessment this would have shown Mr F had actually around £320 monthly disposable 
income, before this loan. In the round, this means I think it would still have been fair to 
conclude the loan would be affordable for Mr F.
Mr F argues looking at his credit file would have shown a history of financial 
mismanagement. But when he applied for this loan his active credit commitments (one hire 
purchase agreement and three revolving accounts) were up to date, and the repayments 
would remain affordable after taking on this new loan. There was evidence that Mr F had 
used payday loans as he says, but this was some time ago in 2015 and 2016. He had 
defaulted on one such loan in 2015 and the balance was now being repaid with just £88 
remaining. I think it would have been unfair for ELL to have declined Mr Fs application for 
this reason alone. There was no sign from the lenders credit check that Mr F was struggling 
financially and/or using payday loans at the time he applied to ELL.
It follows I dont think ELL was wrong to lend to Mr F.Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way towards Mr F?
Mr F has told us that his recent diagnosis of ASD is relevant as it shows he would not have 
understood the terms of the loan he was agreeing to. But I have seen no evidence that ELL 
was aware, or should have been aware, of his vulnerabilities when he applied. The terms of 
the loan agreement set out all the important information Mr F needed to make an informed 
decision  which at the time was what ELL understood it needed to do. The first indication 
that ELL was made aware of Mr Fs mental health situation was in 2020, so I cannot find it 
acted unfairly towards Mr F by not taking this into account in 2019. Once made aware in 
2020, I find it provide appropriate support to Mr F. I am sorry Mr F has struggled with his 
finances and mental health. I hope he now has the support he needs.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman