DRN-4089590
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) lent to her irresponsibly when 
it gave her a loan that she says she couldnt afford.
What happened
Mrs M took out an unsecured loan for £8,000 with Tesco in July 2018. She acquired the loan 
help pay for her wedding. 
 
Mrs M says that Tesco failed to conduct sufficient checks on her individual financial position. 
She thinks Tesco was negligent in allowing her to take the loan given her circumstances. 
She asks that Tesco remove any interest she paid and to pay this towards what remains of 
the loan. 
Our investigator thought Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. Tesco disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator.
Tesco needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M could 
afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Tesco should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs M. These factors include things 
like understanding Mrs Ms income, the total amount Mrs M borrowed, and the length of time 
Mrs M had been indebted. 
In Mrs Ms case, she applied for a loan online. In the application she was asked about her 
income and some of her living costs. She indicated that she lived at home with her parents 
and that she had no living costs as a result. She declared an income of around £900 a 
month. The purpose of the loan was given as wedding. Tescos checks identified that Mrs 
M had an excellent credit score and had only a small amount of unsecured debt elsewhere. 
Tesco has, since its original submissions, said that it also took into account £360 for living 
expenses. Tesco says that this showed she had a disposable income of around £365 a 
month once the loan repayments were taken into account. It also explains that no adverse 
information was found on Mrs Ms credit file. 
However, the amount being borrowed was the equivalent of around 80% of Mrs Ms net 
annual income and the repayments were around 15% of her net income each month.  I think 
this should have caused Tesco to verify Mrs Ms income and expenditure. And I think, given 
the reason for the loan, Tesco ought to have been alert to the possibility Mrs Ms 
circumstances were likely to change in the near future. 
I cant know for sure what Tesco would have asked for to seek that information but in the 
absence of any information about this I think its reasonable to consider information from Mrs 
Ms bank statements about her financial circumstances. From these its apparent that the 
information Mrs M provided to Tesco was incorrect. In fact, she wasnt living with her parents 
 she was renting at a cost of £525 a month. Her other essential expenses came to about 
£270 a month, so less than Tesco had modelled, leaving around £100 a month in disposable 
income, making the £160 needed each month for the loan repayments unaffordable.
Tesco has made a perfectly reasonable point that it ought to have been able to trust the 
information Mrs M provided in her application. I agree with this, and its not clear why Mrs M 
didnt provide correct information. I dont think it was accidental, because Mrs M not only 
declared that she was single and living with her parents, but that she was paying nothing in 
rent. None of these were true and I think its unlikely that Mrs M would have accidentally 
answered all of these questions incorrectly. But as I have already explained, I think there 
were other reasons why Tesco ought to have verified Mrs Ms income and expenditure which 
were apparent to it at the time of application, regardless of Mrs Ms response to the 
questions about her living arrangements and costs.  Had it done so, it would have 
understood that her responses were incorrect and that the loan was likely to be unaffordable. 
In conclusion, I dont think Tesco did reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs Ms 
income and essential expenditure before it agreed to lend to her, and Mrs M has lost out as 
a result. 
Putting things right
Tesco should not have provided the loan to Mrs M. To settle this complaint Tesco should do 
the following:
Add up the total amount of money Mrs M received as a result of having been given 
this loan.
Subtract the repayments Mrs M has made from this amount.
If this results in Mrs M having paid more than she received, any overpayments must 
be refunded along with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made to the date of settlement.
If any capital balance remains outstanding, Tesco should arrange an affordable and 
suitable payment plan with Mrs M. If no such arrangement can be agreed, Mrs M can 
return to this service to make a further complaint.
Remove any negative information recorded on Ms Rs credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges of the loan, but also to remove any negative information 
recorded on her credit file regarding the loan once the outstanding balance has been cleared.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mrs M a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to put things right in the 
way I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman