DRN-3771482
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) has declined to refund the money hes 
lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Mr T has fallen victim to an investment scam. On 4 March 2019, he paid £33,000 via faster 
payment to a company Ill refer to as V (the payment). A family member had recently 
invested through one of Vs financial advisors (the advisor), and they recommended the 
advisor to him. Mr T says he had no prior investment experience, but he wanted to invest his 
inheritance. So, he decided to pay into a one-year bond with a 5% guaranteed return (the 
bond).
Before investing, Mr T says that he checked Vs website, and everything looked legitimate. 
And he spoke to the advisor several times over the telephone and via email. 
Mr T received paperwork for the bond but, when the bonds maturity date was approaching, 
he tried to contact the advisor to explore his options and realised hed been scammed. He 
reported the fraud to Metro in January 2020.
Unfortunately, Metro raised the fraud claim incorrectly, which caused delays. Metro says the 
receiving bank has confirmed that no funds remained in the beneficiary account to recover in 
January 2020  they were removed within a few hours of crediting the account in March 
2019. So, its error has not led to the loss of an opportunity to recover Mr Ts funds. But it has 
offered Mr T £120 by way of compensation for the additional trouble and upset it has caused 
him in this respect.
After investigating Mr Ts fraud claim, Metro declined to reimburse him. It said that it asked 
Mr T for the payment reason when he instructed the payment over the telephone, and it 
didnt discuss the payment further. But even if the bank had discussed the surrounding risks, 
it wouldnt have been able to prevent the scam because Mr T believed he was investing with 
a legitimate company.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator thought that Metro should have asked some questions about the payment 
and, if it had done so, it could have prevented the scam. And she didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Mr T to make the payment. So, she recommended that the bank reimburse 
Mr Ts full loss and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
She thought that Metros offer to pay Mr T £120 for the additional trouble and upset it had 
caused him by raising his fraud claim incorrectly was fair and reasonable.
Metro said that Mr T could have done more to protect himself in the circumstances  for 
example, by checking the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register and/or verifying the 
advisor as well as V  so he should share the responsibility for his loss. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Mr T authorised the payment  he made the payment using his 
payment tools. In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers 
account. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Metro should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
The payment was high value, it was for significantly more than any other payments out of  
Mr Ts account, and it went to a new payee. So, I think it stood out as unusual and out of 
character and I think its reasonable to expect Metro to have asked Mr T some questions 
about it when it spoke to him on the telephone. But, by its own admission, Metro did not 
appropriately question Mr T or advise him about the risks of financial harm. 
Theres no suggestion that Mr T was coached by the fraudster, so I think he wouldve 
spoken freely if Metro had asked him some questions about the payment. I appreciate what 
Metro has said about Mr Ts belief in the investment opportunity. But banks are aware of the 
prevalence of fraud and scams, and I consider that they ought to be aware of the main 
characteristics of investment scams, including that cloned companies are often involved. So, 
although I wouldnt expect Metro to interrogate Mr T about the payment, I would expect to 
see that it had used probing questions to get into the detail and test the purpose of the 
payment and/or that it had educated Mr T about the relevant scam type. If it had done so, 
then I think its likely that the bank or Mr T would have realised something was amiss before 
the payment was made and the scam wouldve unravelled without Mr T suffering a loss.
Metro has pointed out that Mr T could have checked the FCA register to assure himself of 
the legitimacy of the investment opportunity. And its said that Mr T could have verified the 
advisor in order to protect himself  commonly done by contacting the switchboard number 
for a company as listed on the FCA register. When Mr T contacted V after the scam, he was 
told that the advisor had never worked for the company, and I think its fair to assume that he 
would have been given the same information if hed contacted V prior to the scam.
Mr T has no prior investment experience and hes said he would have trusted the banks 
advice. Overall, I think that if Metro had challenged Mr T about the payment in an 
appropriate and sensitive way and/or given him relevant scam advice, then its likely the 
scam wouldve been exposed, and Mr T wouldnt have lost his money. So, Im satisfied that 
its fair and reasonable for Metro to reimburse Mr Ts loss.Ive considered whether Mr T should bear some responsibility for his loss by way of 
contributory negligence. But I dont think he should. I understand that Mr T was vulnerable at 
the time, having recently lost his mother. And he was an inexperienced investor. But he took 
some steps to protect himself  for example, he checked Vs website  and he was assured 
of the companys legitimacy. Ive looked at the written communication between Mr T and the 
advisor before the payment was made and I can see that the advisor corresponded in a 
professional and convincing manner, that their communication was often delivered on 
seemingly professional letter headed paper, that Mr T signed a contract for his investment, 
and that he received the paperwork he might have expected to receive for the bond. I dont 
consider that the bonds rate of return was too good to be true, or that it shouldve raised    
Mr Ts suspicions. And I cant ignore that Metro did not educate Mr T about the relevant 
scam type to raise his awareness about the types of checks he could do to protect himself 
from financial harm.
Overall, although theres more Mr T couldve done to protect himself, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for him to make the payment in the circumstances and Im satisfied that there 
was no contributory negligence on this occasion.
Finally, I can see that Metro made some errors when handling Mr Ts fraud claim which 
caused delays. I consider the £120 Metro has offered to pay Mr T by way of compensation 
for the additional trouble and upset these errors have caused him to be fair and reasonable, 
and in line with the levels of awards this Service recommends. So, I dont think the bank 
needs to take any further action in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Metro Bank PLC to:
reimburse the £33,000 Mr T lost to the scam and pay 8% simple interest per annum 
from the date of the payment to the date of settlement; plus
pay Mr T £120 for the trouble and upset its errors in handling his fraud claim have 
caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman