DRN-1083569
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the way Next Retail Limited handled her account.
What happened
Ms M has a Next Credit account. She says shes had ongoing issues with the products and 
service provided.  
Ms M says Next repeatedly made admin errors on her account such as debiting the account 
instead of crediting the balance. Ms M also feels Next have been deliberately delaying her 
orders and cancelling collections shed arranged. 
Ms M complained to Next who agreed the account hadnt been managed correctly due to 
repeated administrative errors. But it provided evidence of the adjustments made to the 
balance on Ms Ms account in order to rectify any problems. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and he didnt think Next had treated Ms M 
unfairly. He said it had credited any incorrect debits made to the account.
Ms M didnt agree. She says this doesnt take into account the distress and inconvenience 
she has suffered.  And the time she has spent trying to resolve matters with Next. So its 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Ms M has spent a lot of energy communicating with the business regarding her 
concerns. And I can appreciate how much of her time this must have taken up. But I think 
overall the business has acted reasonably in trying to resolve the matter. 
It is not in dispute that Next has made a number of administrative errors when trying to carry 
out fairly standard tasks on the account. And I accept how frustrating and concerning this 
must have been for Ms M.  
But from the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied Next has tried its best to rectify any errors 
promptly and explain to Ms M what theyve done. However it has been fairly complicated due 
to some refunds being credited to the account and other items just changed to zero on Ms 
Ms invoice. But I accept this is because those items had not yet been billed. 
There has been a lot of communication between Ms M and the business. And I think Next 
has tried to accommodate Ms Ms requests reasonably. It has made reductions to her 
balance on numerous occasions as gestures of goodwill and issued several apologies for 
any failings. 
Ms M has referred to the call recordings she holds and is unhappy our investigator hadnt 
listened to them. But Next agrees that these calls took place and it doesnt dispute what 
happened during these calls  Ms M raised her concerns and Next apologised and took 
action to try and remedy any problem. 
I can understand why Ms M feels she deserves further compensation for the administration 
errors. But I agree with our investigator that the additional credits already made by Next, as 
set out in his view, is fair compensation.  
Next has offered to transfer any credit on the account into Ms Ms bank account to avoid the 
need for any further adjustments to the Next credit account. I appreciate there have been 
problems with this process in the past but I think in the circumstance this is the right thing to 
do here.
Overall, Im satisfied Next has acted fairly in trying to resolve matters with Ms M. And it has 
tried to rectify any administration errors promptly. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint because Im satisfied Next has acted fairly. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman