DRN-3727584
The complaint
Mr D complains about a loan provided to him by Madison CF UK Limited, trading as
118 118 Money, (118 118 Money), which he says was unaffordable. His complaint is 
brought to this Service by a firm of solicitors. But for ease I shall refer below to all actions 
being taken by Mr D.
What happened
118 118 Money entered into an agreement for a loan for Mr D in January 2019. The loan 
was for £4,000 and was repayable by 24 monthly payments of £313.83. The interest rate 
was 71.3%, (99.9% APR). If Mr D made each repayment when it was due, the total amount 
payable would be £7,531.92. Mr D said that the loan was for debt consolidation.                
118 118 Moneys loan statement appears to show that the loan was repaid in January 2021. 
Mr D says that 118 118 Money had lent money to him without checking whether he was able 
to repay. At the time he took out the loan, he was personally and mentally struggling and 
financially he was in a mess. The loan got him into a bigger mess. He fell behind on existing 
payments and had to borrow more money to keep up with essential payments.
In its final response letter, 118 118 Money said that it had asked Mr D for information about 
his income and expenditure, the reason for the loan and about his employment. It said that it 
had used industry standard verification checks to validate this information. It was satisfied 
that it had acted correctly in approving the loan application.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. She said that       
118 118 Moneys checks werent proportionate but the checks it did complete revealed 
enough information to enable it to make an informed lending decision. She noted that the 
loan was for debt consolidation but the loan of £4,000 wasnt enough to clear Mr Ds 
unsecured debt of around £24,000 and 118 118 Money didnt take steps to discover what 
loans would be consolidated. So, the loan would be increasing Mr Ds overall debt and time 
in debt further.
118 118 Money disagreed and responded to the investigators view by saying that it had 
found nothing in Mr Ds credit file that would have triggered it to have completed more 
checks. The credit file showed Mr D was using 56% of his available credit demonstrating that 
he wasnt reliant on credit.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
My initial provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued my first provisional decision on this complaint to
Mr D and to 118 118 Money on 26 July 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when 118 118 Money lent to Mr D the regulator was the Financial Conduct 
Authority and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). 
118 118 Money was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of Mr Ds creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This 
meant that 118 118 Money had to consider both the risk to it that Mr D wouldnt make the 
repayments under the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr D of not being able to make 
these repayments. 
In particular, 118 118 Money had to consider Mr Ds ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
his financial situation. 
The rules didnt set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wished to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what was appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ds case, I considered the following 
questions:
 - Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing       
Mr Ds loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did 118 118 Money make a fair lending decision? 
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ds 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mr D about his income and expenditure 
before it agreed the loan. It had also carried out a credit check. Mr D said his net monthly income was £4,200. 118 118 Money said that it used industry 
standard verification checks to verify this. I hadnt seen the results of 118 118 Moneys 
income checks. 
Mr D declared his mortgage payment to be £635 and his other monthly living costs to be 
£670. He didnt declare any credit card and loan payments. But 118 118 Money was aware 
from its credit checks that Mr D did have a number of credit commitments. So, I thought it 
ought to have been concerned about whether the expenditure information provided by Mr D 
was complete. 
The lender provided this Service with its credit checks which Id reviewed. The credit checks 
showed that Mr Ds total credit balance was £63,878. He had 12 active accounts and one 
account had been opened in the six months prior to the loan application. The checks showed 
that Mr D had a monthly mortgage payment of £663. In addition, he had a monthly hire 
purchase payment of £366. More concerning was that he had taken out two relatively large 
loans in 2018. The larger loan with a balance of £8,001 had only been taken out around five 
months prior to the loan application and the smaller loan with a balance of £2,459 had been 
taken out around five months before that. Mr D was making a total monthly payment of 
around £460 for these two loans. Mr D also had two credit cards although only one had a 
balance, which was £2,062. Id noted that Mr D appeared not to have made any payments to 
this card in June 2018 and August 2018 which might have caused 118 118 Money concerns. 
He also had a mail order account with a balance of £1,577 on which he was paying £65 per 
month.
Id said that simply performing credit checks wasnt enough. A lender needed to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks showed. The checks suggested that Mr Ds 
finances might have been under pressure especially in view of the two relatively recent large 
loans and the missed payments on his credit card. And I thought they should have led       
118 118 Money to conclude it should gather some more information about Mr Ds finances. 
I also didnt think it was reasonable for 118 118 Money to rely on the expenditure Mr D 
declared especially as 118 118 Money would have likely known from its credit checks that 
Mr D hadnt declared all his credit commitments to it. 118 118 Moneys affordability 
assessment wasnt tailored to Mr D and I thought it should have been in his circumstances. 
Mr D was entering into a significant commitment with 118 118 Money. He would need to 
make monthly repayments of around £314 for 24 months. Given the length of time Mr D was 
committing to repay the credit and what 118 118 Money would have likely seen on its credit 
checks, I didnt think its checks were sufficient for 118 118 Money to get a clear picture of  
Mr Ds finances at the time. I thought it would have been proportionate for 118 118 Money to 
independently check the true state of Mr Ds finances before agreeing the loan. 
118 118 Money needed to do more than just ascertain whether the loan repayments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. It could have done this by, 
for example, requesting bank statements from Mr D, asking for copies of  bills and/or 
receipts for his expenses and by asking him for more information about his existing credit 
commitments. I couldnt see that 118 118 Money took steps to do this. 
But although I thought 118 118 Money should have asked for some additional information 
before agreeing the loan, that in itself didnt mean that Mr Ds complaint should succeed. I 
also needed to be persuaded that any further information would have shown 118 118 Money 
that Mr D couldn't repay the loan  without the repayments having a significant adverse 
impact on his financial situation. So, I asked the investigator to ask Mr D for copies of his 
bank statements from around the time of the loan, so we could see what better checks would 
have shown the lender. I wasnt suggesting that this was the exact check that 118 118 Money should have carried 
out. Looking at Mr Ds bank statements was one way of achieving that although there were 
other ways that level of detail could be established. But I thought that by looking at Mr Ds 
bank statements I would be able to get a good idea of what better checks might have shown. 
Despite our request Mr D hadnt provided us with copies of his bank statements from around 
the time of the loan. He said that his current account provider had said that there was a large 
backlog to provide copy statements. Id noted from another of Mr Ds complaints with this 
Service that he was told by his account provider around three months earlier that his request 
for copy statements would take up to eight weeks. More than eight weeks had passed since 
our request for Mr Ds bank statements. I thought Mr D had been provided with a reasonable 
period of time to provide these. 
As Id not seen Mr Ds bank statements, I hadnt been able to get a picture from these of 
what his financial situation was like at the relevant time. Id seen a copy of Mr Ds credit 
report and that didnt show that Mr D had additional credit beyond that shown in 118 118 
Moneys credit checks. I also couldnt see that hed taken out short term loans to supplement 
his income.
Altogether, I couldnt say that if 118 118 Money had completed further checks, it wouldve 
found that Mr D couldnt afford to repay the loan. So, based on the information Id seen, I 
wasnt able to conclude that 118 118 Money shouldnt have agreed to provide the loan to   
Mr D. But Id said that if Mr D was able to provide us with the relevant copies of his bank 
statements in response to my initial provisional decision, I would reconsider my decision. But 
subject to any further representations by Mr D or 118 118 Money, I said that I didnt intend to 
uphold the complaint.
118 118 Money responded to my first provisional decision to say that it accepted it.
Mr D responded to my first provisional decision by providing us with copies of his current 
account statements from around the time of the loan.
My second provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint to
Mr D and to 118 118 Money on 31 August 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id reviewed Mr Ds bank statements from November 2018 and December 2018. Had       
118 118 Money sought some verification of Mr Ds financial situation, I thought it wouldve 
been in a better position to have understood Mr Ds financial circumstances before it decided 
to lend to him. 
The income Mr D received in November 2018 and December 2018 (£1,300 and £500 
respectively) appeared to be irregular and substantially less than hed declared to              
118 118 Money. I thought that he might be self-employed and asked the investigator to ask 
him about this. I could also see on the bank statements that Mr Ds regular living costs and 
credit commitments appeared to exceed his income. I also couldnt see that Mr D was 
paying his mortgage in those months and asked the investigator to ask Mr D if it was being 
paid from another account. Id also noted that Mr D received two loans totalling £3,500 in 
December 2018 and hed also received £7,000 from a family member in that month and Id 
asked the investigator to ask Mr D about these. Id also noted he was making regular 
payments to a solicitor and asked the investigator to ask Mr D about these.Mr D told this Service he was self-employed. The fact that Mr D was self-employed meant 
that his income might have been sporadic or likely to fluctuate. His declared income might 
not have been his available income and might not have been net of all tax, national 
insurance and business expenses. There was also an element of uncertainty  especially as 
Mr D was unlikely to receive any sick pay or holiday pay. If 118 118 Money had made 
proportionate checks and seen that Mr D was self-employed, I thought it should then have 
taken steps to verify Mr Ds available income as carefully as possible as any error  even if 
slight - was likely to have a significant impact on his ability to repay 118 118 Moneys loan.
Mr D also said that he wasnt paying his mortgage at the time due to financial problems. He 
said that hed taken out the two loans totalling £3,500 in December 2018 because he was in 
a financial mess and needed to survive. And the family loan for £7,000 was to help him out. 
He was also making payments to a solicitor so he could keep a debt out of court action.
So, if 118 118 Money had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks, I thought 
it was likely it would have discovered that Mr D was self-employed, that his net monthly 
income was substantially less than hed declared and less than the total of his regular 
expenditure and credit commitments and that he was having to rely on loans from third 
parties. And in these circumstances, I thought 118 118 Money ought reasonably to have 
realised that Mr D was over-committed financially and that he was having significant 
difficulties managing his finances. So I thought 118 118 Money ought reasonably to have 
realised that it was unlikely that Mr D wouldve been able to repay his loan without him 
having to borrow to meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment 
he had a contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a 
significant adverse effect on his financial situation. 
I thought 118 118 Money should reasonably have concluded that it had made an unfair 
lending decision when it agreed to lend to Mr D. So, subject to any further representations by 
Mr D or 118 118 Money, my second provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this 
complaint and say that 118 118 Money needs to take the steps set out below.
Putting things right  what 118 118 Money needs to do
I understand that the loan has been repaid. As I intend to conclude that 118 118 Money was 
irresponsible to have lent to Mr D, he shouldnt have to pay any interest, fees or charges on 
the loan. 
So, 118 118 Money should:
Refund any interest, fees and charges paid by Mr D on the loan;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to the loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest.          
118 118 Money must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks 
for one. 
118 118 Money responded to my second provisional decision to say that it accepted it.
Mr D hasnt provided a response to my second provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
As 118 118 Money has accepted my second provisional decision, and Mr D hasnt provided 
any further comments in response to it, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I 
reached in my second provisional decision. And Im satisfied that the proposed resolution in 
my second provisional decision is fair in all the circumstances and that 118 118 Money 
should put things right as set out under the above heading Putting things right  what      
118 118 Money needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I
order Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, to pay the compensation and take
the steps set out under the above heading Putting things right  what 118 118 Money needs 
to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman