DRN-4070642
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy with the way QIC Europe Limited handled her claim after her home was 
damaged by fire.
Miss Gs loss assessor handled the claim on her behalf. For ease of reading, Ill refer only to 
Miss G throughout my decision, but any reference to her actions includes those of her loss 
assessor.
What happened
Miss G had buildings and contents insurance underwritten by QIC. She suffered the loss of 
her home through fire damage and appointed a loss assessor (LA) to deal with her claim 
under the policy. QIC accepted the claim.
The details of the claim are well-known to all parties, so rather than repeat them here, Ill 
summarise Miss Gs key issues of complaint. She complained that QIC:
restricted Alternative Accommodation (AA) cover to 12 months;
would only pay the fees for surveyors and architects it chose, but Miss G wanted to 
use her choice of professionals;
said it would settle the claim based on diminishing value of the house, and
didnt make a fair offer for the value of contents destroyed in the fire.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint. In summary, she said QIC had handled 
the claim in line with the terms of the policy, and its settlement offer was based on the 
information it had about contents. 
Miss G didnt agree. She said QIC didnt respond to her complaint, and she didnt think it had 
taken her needs or specific circumstances into consideration when applying the policy limits 
to her claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Miss G will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Im sorry to hear of the undoubtedly distressing experience Miss G had of losing her home to 
fire and the resulting concerns for her and her familys health. My role is to look at whether 
QIC handled the claim fairly and in line with the policy. To do that, Ive looked at all the 
evidence and Ill comment only on that which I think helps to explain my decision. I should 
point out that my consideration is of QICs actions and doesnt include any distress and 
inconvenience Miss G experienced as a direct result of the fire rather than QICs handling of 
the claim.
Alternative Accommodation
Miss G complains that QIC restricted her entitlement to AA to 12 months, but the nature of 
the damage means shed need longer.
The policy schedule shows that Miss G had buildings insurance. It refers directly to the 
relevant section in the policy booklet for further information. Details of the AA cover available 
to Miss G are set out in the policy booklet, and QIC made the documents available to Miss G 
when she took out the policy. Therefore, Im satisfied QIC provided enough information to 
make Miss G aware of the policy limits. 
I understand QIC paid some of the AA allowance to Miss G while she was staying with 
friends and family. It paid based on its assessment of market rates for rental property that 
wouldve met Miss Gs needs. Although she doesnt think it was enough, especially as her 
policy allowed for a greater amount, I havent seen anything in the evidence to indicate that 
QICs payment was unreasonable. The policy does allow for AA up to a greater amount, but 
that doesnt mean QIC must pay the maximum allowance if the cost for a 12-month period is 
less.
As the policy restricts AA to 12 months, I dont think QIC has done anything wrong by 
applying the time limit to Miss Gs claim.
Architect and surveyor fees
Miss G doesnt think its fair for QIC to choose the professional services.
The policy provides cover for architects, surveyors, legal and engineers fees which are 
necessary for us to rebuild your home. It also says, We have the right to choose who does 
this work. 
The wording explains that QIC would choose its own professional services to rebuild Miss 
Gs home. I think thats fair given QIC would be responsible for anything which didnt go 
according to plan, or if a problem were to arise during repairs. If Miss G prefers to use her 
own contractors to repair her home rather than handing responsibility to QIC, its fair that 
shed want her own professionals to complete the work. However, I wouldnt expect QIC to 
pay more for this part of the service than it would pay if doing the work itself.
I understand Miss G would like QIC to cover the cost of her loss assessor. Turning again to 
the policy, it says:
We dont cover:
a. any fees charged to help you prepare your claim;
I think the wording is clear, so I see no reason to ask QIC to pay towards the loss assessors 
costs.
As QICs stance in respect of the fees is in line with the policy, I wont be asking QIC to do 
any more in respect of this issue.
Diminishing value
Miss G was unhappy that QIC said it would settle the claim based on diminishing value of 
her home.
The policy allows QIC to make an offer based on diminishing value. However, it hasnt made 
that offer and instead offered the rebuild/repair costs based on its assessment of the work 
needed. So, while QIC considered a diminishing value offer, its actual offer was for the repair costs. I dont think QIC did anything wrong by considering all options available to it under the 
policy for the claim settlement.
Contents
Miss G doesnt think QIC made a fair offer to cover the cost of replacing her damaged 
contents. 
The evidence shows that QIC commented on Miss Gs low estimate of her contents value 
when she first bought her policy some years earlier. However, the level of cover under her 
policy was £75,000 and QIC offered a settlement in excess of her own estimate from several 
years earlier. Therefore, QIC hasnt used Miss Gs estimate as evidence of underinsurance. 
I understand Miss G thinks QICs offer is too low for the contents she needs to replace, but I 
havent seen any clear evidence to show where Miss G thinks the shortfall is. Therefore, I 
cant reasonably say QIC has made an unfair offer. If Miss G has more evidence to support 
her contents claim, she may wish to provide that directly to QIC for consideration.
Additional points
Miss G raised some further issues which Ill comment on briefly. She says the 
communication by QIC had to be through a portal and its forensic investigator contacted her 
directly rather than her loss assessor. Miss G didnt think either approach was appropriate in 
the circumstances.
Although QICs preferred method of contact may have been via its portal, its clear from the 
evidence available that it also communicated directly with Miss G by email and via her loss 
assessor once it was given appropriate authorisation to do so. 
Ive thought about the loss assessors comments after there was direct contact with Miss G 
about the forensic investigation. While I accept that the loss assessor may have considered 
it inappropriate, I cant see that it caused Miss G any significant loss. Therefore, I wont be 
asking QIC to do anything in respect of this point.
Finally, Ive noted Miss Gs concerns that her attention wasn't brought to some of the terms 
of the policy at the point of sale. For example, she says she wasnt told about the 12 month 
AA limit or that she couldnt choose her own professional. QIC is the underwriter of the policy 
and, therefore, responsible for the claim decision. But because it didnt sell the policy to Miss 
G, its not responsible for any concerns she may have about the sale. 
If Miss G remains concerned about the information she was given at the point of sale, shed 
need to raise this with the company that sold her the policy in the first instance.
Overall, the evidence indicates that QIC handled Miss Gs claim reasonably and in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. I appreciate that she experienced a significant loss, and 
there will naturally be delays and upset during a claim of this size, but I havent seen 
anything to show QIC contributed significantly to the overall loss. Therefore, Im not asking 
QIC to do any more in relation to Miss Gs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint and 
Im not making any requirements of QIC Europe Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman