DRN-3296490
The complaint
Mr M, the owner of Business A complains about the delays to collect the car following the 
end of a hire agreement with Lex Autolease Ltd trading as Jaguar Contract Hire (Lex).
The agreement was taken out in the name of Business A but for the purposes of this 
decision I will refer to Mr M throughout. 
What happened
In May 2016, Mr M acquired a car under a hire agreement. The agreement was to last 36 
months and he was required to pay monthly instalments of £643.
The agreement was initially due to end in June 2019 but it was extended until April 2020. As 
per Lexs end of contract procedure the car was due to be collected at the end of the 
agreement. However due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed 
by the UK government, collections were temporarily suspended meaning Mr M remained in 
possession of the car.
As Covid-19 restrictions started to ease, in June 2020 Lex contacted Mr M about arranging a 
day to collect the car and they confirmed the earliest available date was the start of July 
2020. Collection was arranged for 1 July 2020 but this was cancelled on the day as the 
agent was unable to attend. A subsequent collection was arranged for 11 July 2020 but the 
car wasnt collected as Mr M wasnt at home when the agent arrived. The car was 
subsequently collected on 28 July 2020.
Mr M complained about the failed collection attempts and the length of time he remained in 
possession of the car after the agreement ended. He said this caused great inconvenience 
and stress because he needed the space for other cars. He said as the MOT and tax had 
expired he was worried about parking it on the road and he was concerned he would remain 
responsible for the car should anything happen to it. He also said due to failed collections he 
had to take time off work and arrange for other people to cover his shifts. 
Lex accepted there had been delays in collecting the car and offered £50 by way of an 
apology. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr M referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case was upheld. They believed the proposed compensation should be 
increased to £100 to reflect the trouble and upset caused. Mr M didnt believe this was 
enough given the stress the situation caused. Lex also disagreed, they felt the proposed 
compensation of £50 was sufficient. They commented there was one failed collection due to 
their agents however the other cancellation was not down to them.
In January 2022, I issued my provisional decision and said:
 In this decision Ive considered whether I believe Lex has done enough to put things right 
following the delays to collect the car at the end of the hire agreement. Having done so, I 
believe Lex they have. Ill explain why. 
This is a regulated hire agreement therefore this is a complaint our service can look at. 
Under usual circumstances, Lexs terms say at the end of the agreement the car would be 
collected and inspected. However when reviewing this complaint, I must take into account 
the wider circumstances at the time, notably the Covid-19 pandemic and the impact of the 
nationwide lockdown in March 2020. I recognise this caused significant disruption to financial 
businesses such as Lex and their agents, impacting their resources and operations. This led 
to unforeseen circumstances including businesses having to temporarily close or suspend 
certain activities, which is what happened here. Lex said they were unable to collect the car 
immediately after the agreement ended in April 2020 due to the Covid-19 restrictions. Given 
this wider context, I dont find the delay to immediately collect the car was unreasonable, it 
was beyond the control of Lex. 
I think its fair to say once the restrictions started to ease around June 2020, Lex had to deal 
with a backlog of collecting cars and this inevitably led to further delays. I can see they 
contacted Mr M on 12 June 2020 to arrange collection and they made him aware the earliest 
date was 1 July 2020. There is nothing to suggest an earlier date was available so I find Lex 
acted fairly.
Mr M requested for the car to be collected on 1 July 2020 and its most likely he had taken 
time of work to be present for it so I appreciate his frustration when it was later cancelled on 
the day by the agent. This was an unfortunate event but I can see Lex contacted Mr M to 
rearrange it in what I consider to be a reasonable amount of time thereafter. They proposed 
a new date of 5 July 2020. I note this date wasnt convenient for Mr M so it was booked for 
11 July 2020 instead. In instances such as this where a car has to be collected, I believe its 
fair to expect that there will be some degree of inconvenience as both parties have to decide 
on a mutually convenient day for the collection to take place.
Having said that, I can understand Mr Ms concerns and frustration for ultimately being 
responsible for the car even though the agreement came to an end in April 2020. As the car 
wasnt collected until 28 July 2020, this meant it was in his possession for three months 
longer than it should have been. However its worth noting, he wasnt required to continue 
paying the monthly instalments once the agreement ended. 
Mr M said he was unable to keep the car on his drive as it was needed for other cars and he 
said the MOT and tax had expired so it couldnt be parked on the road. However I can see 
Lex advised him that the MOT had been automatically extended and the road tax was 
already included in the instalments. There is no indication nor evidence Mr M incurred other 
costs such as insurance or parking meaning there has been no financial loss. So I cant 
reasonably say Lex needs to do anything more. Equally I dont believe it would be fair to say 
they should compensate him for something that couldve happened e.g. if the car was 
damaged.
Ive thought about what Mr M has said and whether the compensation amount of £50 is 
reasonable given the impact the delay in collecting the car had on him. Having done so, I 
think it is. I say this because although there was more than one collection cancelled, it 
appears only one was the fault of Lexs agent. That is, the collection on 1 July 2020. I dont 
find the collection on 11 July 2020 was due to Lexs agent so I cant hold them responsible 
for this. I understand there was a lot of back of forth between Lex and Mr M but thats not 
unusual given it was necessary to find a mutually convenient day for both parties. I dont 
consider the level of communication to be excessive.
Taking everything into account, I believe Lexs offer of compensation of £50 by way of an 
apology is reasonable in the circumstances and I dont think this should be increased as 
proposed by the investigator. Mr M was caused a level of inconvenience by continuing to keep safe possession of the car but I recognise it was also an extremely busy and unusual 
time for Lex. 
Response to the provisional decision 
Lex said they had no further comments. Mr M responded and said the following:
- For the collection on 11 July 2020, it couldnt be expected for him to wait all day as 
he needed to work. The agent couldve called him an hour in advance to let him know 
the approximate time he would attend so he could return;
- He had to pay for staff to cover his shifts when the collection attempts failed;
- There was a lack of communication between Lex and their collection agents;
- He was left in possession of the car for several weeks after the agreement ended 
and this caused inconvenience as he needed the space for other cars. Although he 
didnt incur costs, this didnt mean it was fair there was such a delay in collecting the 
car and the pandemic shouldnt be held as an excuse. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr M for his further comments and I wish to reassure him that Ive carefully 
considered what he said. I accept inconvenience was caused by this situation and its 
unfortunate but I consider Lex has done enough to put things right. I still consider my 
provisional findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I dont find either party 
has added anything which gives me cause to change my findings. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Lex has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair 
in all the circumstances.
So my decision is Lex Autolease Ltd trading as Jaguar Contract Hire should pay £50 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman