DRN-1908774
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) was 
irresponsible to lend to him.
What happened
Mr H had four instalment loans from Sunny between 18 June 2019 and 22 August 2019 as 
follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 18 Jun 2019 £250 6m £83.33 31 Dec 2019 Outstanding
2 11 Jul 2019 £500 6m £154.65 31 Dec 2019 Outstanding
3 24 Jul 2019 £50 6m £16.67 31 Jan 2020 9 Aug 2019
4 22 Aug 2019 £150 6m £50.00 28 Feb 2020 Outstanding
 
Mr H says Sunny should not have lent to him when previous loans were still outstanding. He 
says if it had carried out better credit checks it would also have seen he had other loans 
outstanding, as well as large credit card debts.
Sunny says it asked Mr H about his income and expenditure and checked his credit file. It 
says it validated his declared expenditure with third party sources and increased this number 
where appropriate. Sunny says it was confident that the checks it carried out were robust 
and that the loans were affordable.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said there was 
nothing in the available information that should have indicated to Sunny that Mr H would be 
unable to sustainably make the repayments.
Mr H responded to say, in summary, that this is a clear case of irresponsible lending as he 
had multiple loans outstanding at the same time. He forwarded a copy of his credit file and 
bank account transactions to support his case.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr H and to Sunny on 1 May 2020. I summarise my 
findings here:I was satisfied Sunny had carried out proportionate checks for the first two loans and 
that there was nothing in the available information that indicated the loans were 
unaffordable to him;
Because Mr Hs first two loans were outstanding when he applied for his third loan in 
quick succession, I found Sunnys checks should have gone further for loan 3;
Had Sunny carried out proportionate checks for loan 3, I thought it likely it would 
have found he had outstanding short-term loans with at least three other providers at 
the time he applied for loan 3;
I was satisfied that there was a clear indication Mr H was struggling to manage his 
money and so Sunny was irresponsible to have approved loan 3;
I also considered Sunny should have carried out better checks for loan 4 and, as his 
financial circumstances remained relatively unchanged, I found Sunny should not 
have approved loan 4 either.
 
So my provisional decision was to uphold Mr Hs complaint about loans 3 and 4.
Mr H responded to say, in summary, that the provisional decision didnt go far enough and 
that the fact his second loan was twice his first should have caused Sunny to carry out more 
checks. He says approving such a loan after only one repayment of his first loan should 
have immediately triggered enhanced checking which would have shown it was 
unaffordable. Mr H adds that he cannot afford the repayments on all his outstanding loans 
and he will still be in significant financial difficulty so should only need to repay the capital 
borrowed using an affordable repayment arrangement.
Sunny did not respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
As I outlined in my provisional decision, Sunnys checks needed to be proportionate to things 
such as the amount Mr H was borrowing, and his lending history. But there was no set list of 
checks Sunny had to do.
For all Mr Hs loans, Sunny asked for information about his income and expenditure and 
carried out a credit check. Sunny also verified Mr Hs income using an external source. I 
acknowledge Mr H says Sunnys checks should have gone further than that for loan 2, but I 
cant agree thats the case. I say that because:
The total scheduled repayment for loans 1 and 2 together was under £240 which was 
a small proportion of Mr Hs declared £1,700 income;
Based on the information it had, Sunny calculated Mr Hs disposable income to be 
£620 for loan 2, which made a repayment of £240 affordable to him;
There was no information in the credit checks that indicated Mr H was in financial 
difficulties;
 
I accept Mr H says his bank statements would have shown that Sunny should not have 
approved loan 2, but it was entitled to rely in the information Mr H had provided at this stage 
of the lending relationship. As there was nothing in the available information to indicate the 
lending was unaffordable, Im satisfied that Sunnys checks went far enough and I cant 
conclude it should have declined Mr Hs first two loan applications.So I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
That said, I would encourage Mr H to discuss an affordable repayment plan with Sunny for 
the remaining outstanding balance.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part. Elevate Credit International Limited 
(trading as Sunny) should:
Refund all interest and charges that Mr H paid on loans 3 and 4;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Write off any unpaid interest and charges for loan 4, apply the refund to reduce any 
capital outstanding and pay any balance to Mr H;
Remove any negative information about loans 3 and 4 from Mr Hs credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends to 
apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the 
tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman