DRN-4325902
The complaint
Mr M complains that hes been charged late payment fees by NewDay Ltd trading as 
Marbles due to his direct debit not being taken as a result of a system error. Hes also 
unhappy that his account was defaulted and terminated.
What happened
Mr M opened a credit card account with Marbles and set up a direct debit to pay the balance 
each month. 
Mr Ms direct debits werent taken due to a system error. This resulted in Mr M being 
charged late payment fees, and his account defaulted and terminated.
Mr M complained to Marbles. He said that when he looked on his account, it said that there 
was no direct debit instruction, when he knew hed set one up. Mr M was unhappy that his 
account was in arrears due to the direct debits not being collected. 
Marbles upheld the complaint. It acknowledged that there had been an error in the 
administration of Mr Ms account and credited the account with £50 by way of apology. It 
also refunded £60 worth of fees which had been applied to the account. Marbles said it 
couldnt find any error with the closure of the account.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint and recommended that Marbles refund all the 
late payment charges up until March 2023 (minus the charges already refunded). The 
investigator said that Marbles had sent letters to Mr M in January  March 2023 advising him 
that there was no direct debit in place and that hed had a reasonable opportunity to bring his 
account up to date before it defaulted.
Mr M didnt agree. He said the issue with the direct debit was due to a systems error which 
wasnt his fault. He said he wanted his account reinstated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Marbles has acknowledged that there was an error in the administration of Mr Ms account 
which meant that his direct debit wasnt set up and collected.
The information provided by Marbles shows that the issue started in October 2022. This led 
to late payment fees, over limit fees and unpaid direct debit fees being applied to Mr Ms 
account.
In its final response letter, Marbles said it had resolved the issue in January 2023. However, 
looking at the letters which Marbles sent to Mr M in February and March 2023 in which 
Marbles advised Mr M that he didnt have a direct debit set up, I dont think the issue had 
been resolved.
Because the issue was ongoing in February and March 2023, I dont think its fair that fees 
were applied to Mr Ms account during this time. I agree with the investigator that these fees 
should be refunded.
Ive gone on to consider whether Marbles acted fairly when it issued the default notice and 
terminated the account. I can see that Mr M contacted Marbles in March 2023 to find out 
why his direct debit payments werent going through. So its clear that by March 2023 Mr M 
was aware that there was an issue and that no payments had been made to his account. Mr 
M would have by that time received the letters sent to him by Marbles in February and March 
2023 advising him that his direct debit wasnt set up and that hed exceeded his credit limit. 
At this point, I think its reasonable to expect that Mr M wouldve taken steps to make sure 
that a payment was made to his account manually. I say this because ultimately, its a 
consumers responsibility to make sure that payments are made.
I can see that Marbles sent Mr M a default notice dated 14 April 2023. This required Mr M to 
make a payment of £62.10 by 5 May 2023. Based on my review of the account, Mr M didnt 
make a payment. As a result, the account was defaulted and terminated. 
I appreciate that Mr M feels that all the issues with his account were caused by Marbles 
errors. However, although (as Ive already said) I dont think its fair that fees were applied to 
Mr Ms account in February and March 2023, I think Mr M ought reasonably to have been 
aware by March 2023 that he needed to make a payment to bring his account up to date. 
Im satisfied that Mr M had a reasonable opportunity to bring his account up to date before 
the account was defaulted and terminated. In the circumstances, Im unable to say that 
Marbles acted unfairly or unreasonably when it terminated the account, so I wont be asking 
them to reinstate it.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, Im partially upholding this complaint.
To put things right, NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles must refund all late payment charges, 
over limit fees and unpaid direct debit fees up until March 2023 (minus the fees already 
refunded). 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles 
must take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman