DRN-1498711
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
In 2002 Mr and Mrs W bought a PPI policy at the same time as they took out a further 
advance on their mortgage in one of the banks branches. The policy was in Mr Ws sole 
name and gave him protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a 
monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed so the complaint 
was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say no option was given, PPI was just added to their account. I cant know 
what was said in the meeting, so I dont know how the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs W. 
But on the application form for the further advance they indicated that they wanted PPI, and 
the option to decline it was set out with equal prominence. And Mr W then signed a 
separate PPI application form and direct debit mandate. Theres nothing on the forms that I 
think could reasonably have led Mr and Mrs W to believe the PPI was mandatory.
Overall, I think Lloyds make it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs W opted to take it 
out for Mr W. I can understand they might not remember this given how long ago the sale 
was.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to make sure it was right for him. Based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time I think it was. Mr W has told us he was 
entitled to six months' full pay and six months' half pay if he was sick. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months for each successful 
accident and sickness claim. It also gave up to 12 months redundancy cover. This would 
have allowed him to protect any lump sum redundancy payment at an already difficult time if 
he wasn't working. Mr W says they also had savings of around £5,000 but the PPI would 
have allowed him to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep 
them intact for their future needs. Mr and Mrs W were borrowing quite a large sum over a 
long period secured on their home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage 
payments, I think the cover wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs W if Mr W was sick, had an 
accident or lost his job.Its possible that Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs W all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when it made the cost clear, but the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. And I dont know that it pointed out the main things the 
policy didnt cover. But Mr W doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things 
(such as the type of employment contract or any pre-existing medical conditions). So I dont 
think better information wouldve changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs W lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman