DRN-1589800
The complaint
Mr A, Mr A and Mrs E (the complainants) complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as 
Halifax) caused delays in releasing their remortgage funds. 
What happened
On 19 March 2019, the complainants applied for a remortgage with Halifax. This was to pay 
for their loft renovations. By 7 April, theyd sent all documents requested to Halifax.
  
One week later, the complainants contacted Halifax requesting an update. They were told 
they needed to send more information, which they did. On 23 April Halifax issued their offer 
letter and informed the complainants that they had released the funds (£50,000) via CHAPS. 
Over the next few days, the complainants called Halifax as they hadnt received the funds. 
They confirmed the receiving bank account details were correct. And Halifax advised it 
would take up to five working days for the funds to be received.
On 30 April, the funds still hadnt been received. Halifax advised the complainants to contact 
the receiving bank. The receiving bank advised that the funds hadnt been received. And 
explained that the duty lay with Halifax to ascertain where the funds were.
On 1 May, Halifax took the first direct debit payment (with regards to the repayment of the 
£50,000). The following day, Halifax advised a new CHAPS payment had been processed. 
Parallel to this, Mr A had taken out separate loans to cover the costs of the builders, 
regarding the loft renovations. This was because the builders had become agitated by their 
already late payment and had threatened to start an alternative job  therefore stopping the 
work on the loft. The complainants had paid £21,000 to the builders by the time the Halifax 
funds had been received. In order to arrange these loans Mr A had to take time off work. 
The complainants complained to Halifax and their complaint was upheld. On 1 June, Halifax 
sent their final response letter (FRL). In it they apologised for the errors made in getting the 
funds to them on 23 April. It agreed to recalculate the mortgage, with 2 May as the start date 
rather than 23 April. And it said the difference between the two (the overpayment) would be 
refunded to the complainants, plus 8% interest. The FRL also explained that the refund 
would be automatic, but the offer of £250 compensation would need to be accepted. 
Unhappy with this, the complainants brought this matter to us. Our investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint and explained that Halifax couldnt be held responsible for arrangements they 
chose to make with the builders, prior to being in receipt of the funds. He further explained 
that although they had the remortgage offer, it wasnt guaranteed, so until the funds had 
been received building arrangements shouldnt have been made. Our investigator felt the 
offer made by Halifax was fair given the service received. 
As the complainants disagree with this outcome, this has been passed to me for a final 
decision. They have explained that they are seeking the following:
£250 compensation;
£450 loss of earnings; and
8% interest
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax have accepted they have provided poor customer service to the complainants. So, I 
neednt consider whether the service they received was good or not. My consideration is 
firstly therefore, whether the complainants have suffered any financial loss. And secondly, I 
will consider the compensatory payment offered to them for the poor service received. 
Financial loss
Mr A has said he had to take out personal loans in order to pay the builders. This was 
because the remortgage funds were not received on 23 April as expected. And 
arrangements had already been made for the builders to start the renovation works, before 
the remortgage funds had been received from Halifax. 
Mr A has provided evidence of loss of earnings amounting to £450. This was due to time 
taken off work to make arrangements for the personal loans. We do consider loss of 
earnings when deciding what is a fair outcome. But Id need to see that Halifax were 
responsible for it. 
The complainants chose to commence building works prior to receiving the funds from 
Halifax. This was a risk they chose to take on. At no point did Halifax advise the 
complainants to do this. Further, Mr A hasnt provided an explanation as to why he needed 
to take three days off work to get these loans. When weve asked for a breakdown of his 
time, he has said he had to visit various people. This doesnt shed any light on why three 
days was necessary or why he wasnt able to make phone calls instead. For these reasons, I 
dont think it would be reasonable to direct Halifax to cover Mr As claim for loss of earnings. 
I do however think the complainants suffered some financial loss with regards to the 
overpayment they made. Halifax has recalculated the repayments using 2 May 2019 as the 
start date, rather than 23 April. This was the right thing to do. And they have already 
refunded the difference. In their FRL they also explained that 8% interest would be added to 
this amount. But weve been told this hasnt been carried out, as the complainants havent 
accepted their offer of compensation. There isnt a link between the 8% interest and the 
compensatory offer being accepted. The 8% interest is part of the remedy to put the 
complainants back in the position they would have been in if this error hadnt occurred. 
Distress and inconvenience caused
Halifax has offered £250 by way of an apology for the service received. Although Mr A has 
now said he would expect £250 as compensation, I still have to consider whether this is a 
fair offer. 
The complainants were initially expecting the funds on 23 April but due to Halifaxs mistake, 
they didnt receive the funds until the following week. Halifax explained to Mr A on 25 April 
that theyd need to wait until the receiving bank returned the funds, which could take up to 
seven days. But Mr A called Halifax a number of times to find out what was happening  on 
occasion twice within the hour (1 May). 
In considering how to compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused, I must 
consider the impact of the errors made by Halifax and the actions of all parties. On balance, 
Halifaxs offer of £250 by way of an apology was fair and reasonable.My final decision
I am aware that Bank of Scotland Plc has made an offer to pay £250 by way of an apology 
and 8% interest on the refund sum. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. My decision is that Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr A, Mr A and 
Mrs E £250 and the 8% interest, if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A, Mr A and 
Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman