DRN-3452785
The complaint
This complaint is about a joint mortgage held with the Governor and Company of the Bank of 
Ireland (BOI) by Mr M1 and his son Mr M2. The mortgage has passed the due date for 
repayment, but if the property is sold, the proceeds wont cover the debt and therell be a 
shortfall. BOI wont allow a sale without acceptable payment proposals for the shortfall from 
both borrowers. Mr M2 has made proposals that BOI hasnt accepted. Mr M1 wants 
information from BOI before he will provide proposals of his own, but BOI is insisting Mr M1 
provide his proposals first.
The complaint was initiated by Mr M1, but Mr M2 has jointly consented to us looking into it, 
which is a requirement of our rules. It follows an earlier complaint (initiated by Mr M2 but 
then joined by Mr M1) which was decided by an ombudsman colleague.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented, using my own words.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
In addition, the details of the complaint have been set out in correspondence from our 
investigator, and both parties have a copy of this, so there is no need for me to repeat all the 
details here. Because our decisions are published, its important that I dont include any 
information that might result in Mr M1 and Mr M2 being identified. I will therefore keep my 
summary of the complaint quite brief.
Mr M1 and Mr M2 took the mortgage out in 2006; the property is owned by Mr M2 (Mr M1 
has always had his own home) but he moved overseas some time ago and the mortgaged 
property was rented out. Mr M1 has consistently described himself in his correspondence 
with us as guarantor for what he says is his sons mortgage. However, the original mortgage 
application shows him not just as a joint applicant with Mr M2, it records him as the first-
named applicant. Thats also reflected in the mortgage offer, which shows Mr M1 as the first-
named of two joint borrowers.
The relevance of this is two-fold; from BOIs point of view, it means that Mr M1 and Mr M2 
have the same rights and responsibilities as joint borrowers. From our point of view, it means 
that, under our rules, any complaint must be brought by both borrowers, and not by just one.
The mortgage was for ten years, so should have been repaid in 2016, but that didnt happen. 
In 2018, Mr M2 started, and Mr M1 subsequently joined, a complaint about BOI refusing to 
replace the expired mortgage with a new buy-to-let mortgage (BTL). At the same time, he 
complained, amongst other things, that BOI had forced him to evict the tenant and sell the 
property, and that the mortgage had been irresponsibly lent in the first place. That complaint 
was determined by a fellow ombudsman; she didnt uphold any part of it, but concluded it 
with a reminder to BOI of its regulatory duty to treat its borrowers fairly in subsequent 
discussions about the mortgage.
That was in April 2020; soon after, the seeds for the current complaint were sown when BOI, 
having rejected Mr M2s proposals for repaying the balance that would result if a shortfall 
sale was allowed, asked Mr M1 for his own proposals. Mr M1 replied saying he needed 
information from BOI first. Neither party was willing to budge; BOI required Mr M1s payment 
proposals; he required BOI provide the information he considered a necessary precursor to 
him providing proposals. BOI treated the resulting impasse as a complaint and issued a final 
response referring Mr M1 to us.
Mr M1 did contact us, saying amongst other things that BOI was now holding up a sale, thus 
adding to the financial burden on his son. He also objected to BOI treating his exchanges 
with it as a complaint. 
The investigator who looked into the complaint wasnt persuaded BOI was acting unfairly or 
unreasonably. Mr M1 asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. When the case 
came to me, I instructed the investigator to ask Mr M2 to add his consent to us considering 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts.
 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied this case is more straightforward than its been made to look.
A key starting point here is that the mortgage isnt just an outstanding debt; its a long 
overdue debt. The contract Mr M1 and Mr 2 entered into with BOI required them to repay the 
mortgage in 2016; they havent done so, which means theyre in breach of that contract. 
The other relevant starting point is that this is a joint mortgage where both borrowers are 
jointly and severally liable for the outstanding debt. Its not, as Mr M1 seems to believe, 
Mr M2s mortgage for which he acts as guarantor. Im not sure why Mr M1 thinks this; the 
investigator in the current case might have mistakenly accepted Mr M1s assertion without 
question but my fellow ombudsman made it clear in her final decision on the first complaint 
that this was a joint mortgage in which both borrowers had equally responsibility for paying 
the outstanding debt.Other than making that observation, I shant be revisiting any of the subject matter of the 
earlier complaint that was decided by my ombudsman colleague in 2020. My decision here 
deals solely with the subsequent dialogue between BOI and its borrowers regarding a 
possible shortfall sale.
It remains the case that BOI has a duty to treat customers fairly, but the test of fair treatment 
is altogether more nuanced than expecting a business simply to agree to what its customers 
want. Thats particularly the case when negotiating terms for a potential sale where not all of 
the debt will be cleared when the lenders security will be released. Here, the position is 
further complicated by the fact that Mr M1 and Mr M2 arent acting in unison. Theyve each 
been trying to negotiate separate arrangements with BOI. 
On the one hand, Mr M1 says he wants to help his son; one the other, Mr M2 apparently 
would prefer to resolve matters himself without imposing on his father. I understand to some 
degree why theyve each taken the approach they have. It seems to me a likely legacy of the 
fact that the mortgaged property was only ever Mr M2s home, not Mr M1s, and Mr M1 has 
no beneficial interest in it. 
Thats not, however, something that BOI need concern itself with. It simply has two 
borrowers with joint and several liability for the outstanding debt. It has the same duty of fair 
treatment towards them both, but by the same token, is entitled to seek reasonable payment 
proposals from both, whether that is together or separately. Where the latter applies, which 
has been the case thus far, treating both borrowers fairly doesnt necessarily mean 
negotiating the same terms with each. If agreement is being sought separately, BOI can take 
account of the individuals different financial circumstances. 
As yet, BOI has only received a payment proposal from one party, Mr M2. It didnt find his 
proposal acceptable, and to be clear, it doesnt have to. I said earlier that theres more to fair 
treatment than doing what the consumer wants. A lender might find a proposal unacceptable 
because it thinks the borrower can afford more than theyre offering to pay. On the other 
hand, it might equally reject a proposal because it is too high, and trying to keep to it will put 
the borrower under undue pressure. 
Another reason why a lender might reject a proposal even if its affordable is if, in the 
lenders judgement, it will take too long to clear the debt. Thats what BOI has said about 
Mr M2s proposal. Generally speaking, its not our function to interfere with lenders 
commercial judgement, and I dont think theres reason to justify me departing from that 
position in respect of BOIs refusal of Mr M2s proposal.
I turn next to the impasse between Mr M1 and BOI over his proposal; it seems to me that 
thats where the real heart of this complaint lies. Firstly, I dont think BOI did anything wrong 
in treating it as a complaint. The regulator of financial services defines a complaint at its 
most basic level as an expression of dissatisfaction. By any reasonable analysis, Mr M1 was 
dissatisfied that BOI wouldnt go along with his wish to make his submission of payment 
proposals conditional upon it providing him with information first.
As to the impasse itself, Im not persuaded BOI was being at all unreasonable; Ill explain 
why. Firstly, Mr M1 (along with Mr M2) was in breach of his mortgage covenants, having 
allowed the mortgage expiry date to pass without the debt being repaid. So BOI had good 
justification for wanting to know what Mr M1 was willing to commit to paying to reduce a 
post-sale shortfall, before it could agree to a shortfall sale taking place. 
Ive next thought very carefully about the information Mr M1 says he needed before he was 
prepared to make his proposals. I wont provide a comprehensive list here, but will focus on 
two main components, which I consider the most relevant to my conclusion. Firstly, Mr M1 wanted to know the details of Mr M2s proposals. This goes back to the point I 
made earlier about Mr M1 and Mr M2 not acting in unison. Thats not unusual; its more 
common than it might first appear for joint borrowers to be acting separately in debt 
negotiations, not least if a relationship has broken down. Lenders have to tread very 
carefully in such situations, and keep each negotiation confidential from the other. 
Even where a relationship breakdown isnt the reason for the separate negotiations, lenders 
should still keep them confidential. Here, BOI could quite reasonably take the view that if 
Mr M1 wanted to know what Mr M2 had proposed, he was free to ask him directly, and 
Mr M2 would tell him if he wanted his father to know.
The other key piece of information Mr M1 insisted on knowing was how much the likely 
shortfall would be. With the best will in the world, this was not something BOI was ever going 
to be able to provide, other than in the most general terms. Thats because BOI wasnt in a 
position to predict what the net sales proceeds would be following a sale and the settling of 
Mr M1 and Mr M2s related selling expenses. Meanwhile, the amount owing on the mortgage 
would vary from day to day, and BOI couldnt know when a sale would complete. 
Ive seen the set of figures that the investigator referenced in his view as being under 
consideration - albeit disputed by Mr M1. Im not going to rule on their accuracy, as I dont 
consider it necessary to do so. In my view, those figures provided a working hypothesis for 
Mr M1 to provide his proposals. There was, in my view, no reason for any concerns about 
the figures to have been an impediment to Mr M1 submitting his proposals as soon as BOI 
asked for them. They could have been dealt with alongside his payment proposals, rather 
than being an obstacle to him submitting them.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from Mr M1s submissions how strongly he feels. He sees error or 
wrong-doing in almost everything the bank has done (or not done). Thats a natural, 
subjective reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as 
Mr M1 and Mr M2 have been here.
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome.
Mr M1 and Mr M2 dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they 
nor BOI will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr M1 and Mr M2s right to take legal action against BOI over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman