DRN-3754977
The complaint
Mr X complains that Metro Bank PLC blocked and closed his account. He complains they 
registered his details with CIFAS the UKs fraud alert service. Mr X wants the CIFAS marker 
removed, and his account reactivated.
What happened
Mr X had an account with Metro. Mr X used the account to receive payments from selling 
cryptocurrency.
Mr X used a cryptocurrency trading platform, which I will refer to as B to advertise and sell 
cryptocurrency. Mr X has explained that he posted adverts via Bs platform. If a buyer was 
interested, theyd indicate they wanted to buy cryptocurrency from Mr X via the platform and 
send the payment to Mr Xs Metro bank account. Mr X would then send the cryptocurrency 
to the buyer.
Metro carried out a review of Mr Xs account. Following the review, they wrote to Mr X on 
10 March 2021 giving him seven days notice of the closure of the account. The account 
closed on 17 March 2021. 
Mr X was asked to provide proof of entitlement of the funds remaining in his account. Mr X 
provided some documentation. Metro were not satisfied with the information provided and 
the funds were returned to source. Mr X hasnt complained about the lost funds.
Mr X complained to Metro about the account closure and the CIFAS marker.
Metro said they were entitled to close the account and load a CIFAS marker for misuse of 
facility because Mr X had received fraudulent funds into his account.
Unhappy with their response Mr X complained to our service. One of the adjudicators looked 
into the complaint. He thought that although Metro had received information from other 
banks about fraudulent payments being made into Mr Xs account, Mr X had provided 
sufficient information and a plausible explanation. He thought Metro should remove the 
CIFAS marker. He thought Metro had closed the account in accordance with their terms and 
conditions.
Metro was unhappy with the view. As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to 
decide.
In my provisional decision I said:
The marker that Metro have filed with CIFAS is intended to record that theres been a 
misuse of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file 
such a marker, theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr X was guilty 
of a fraud or financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere 
suspicion or concern. CIFAS says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr Xs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account.
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Mr X was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent funds and knew they were, or might be, illegitimate 
payments.
However, a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention.
I need to assess whether I think there is sufficient evidence to meet this standard of proof  
and therefore, whether Metro acted fairly in loading a CIFAS marker against Mr X.
For Metro to have fairly loaded a CIFAS marker against Mr X they need to have evidence to 
show that Mr Xs account received fraudulent funds. Im satisfied based on the information 
provided by Metro theyve sufficient evidence that the funds paid into Mr Xs account 
between 11 January 2021 and 22 February 2021 were fraudulent. Im therefore satisfied that 
Metro met the first pillar to load a marker.
But this isnt sufficient on its own for Metro to load a marker, I need to be satisfied Mr X was 
complicit in the fraud, so in summary was deliberately dishonest and knew the funds were 
fraudulent. So, Ive moved on to consider this.
Mr X has said that he trades in cryptocurrency and uses his Metro account to do so. We 
have asked him to provide evidence of his trades through the trading platform that he uses, 
to evidence his version of events. Mr X has been able to give us information that shows he 
has carried out genuine trades. I appreciate that trading in cryptocurrency can be risky. 
However, looking at the evidence I cant see that Mr X knew or ought to have known that the 
people he was trading with were using fraudulent funds. He has been able to evidence 
genuine trades that match up with the fraudulent funds received into his account.
I appreciate that Mr X received a substantial number of confirmed fraudulent funds into his 
account, but he has been able to provide proof that the funds were genuinely received for 
cryptocurrency trades. This makes me think that he wasnt a witting beneficiary of fraudulent 
funds so I think Metro should remove the CIFAS marker. Metro should also pay Mr X £150 
for the inconvenience of having had a CIFAS marker recorded against him. 
Account closure
As the investigator has said its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Metro gave wrote to Mr X on 10 March 2021 and gave Mr X seven days notice to close his 
account. And having looked at the evidence and the terms and conditions of the account 
which Mr X agreed to when he opened the account, I am satisfied Metro acted fairly in 
closing the account, so I wont be asking them to reopen it. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr X has accepted my provisional decision. Metro have also accepted my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr X and Metro have not provided any further comments, I have nevertheless re-
considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have seen nothing to change my mind and so my 
provisional findings stand.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right Metro Bank PLC should 
remove the CIFAS marker from Mr Xs record and pay Mr X £150 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman