DRN-2627650
The complaint
Mr H complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) hasnt refunded the 
premiums he paid for a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy through a broker, which was 
underwritten by AIG. Cover under the policy started on 20 January 2020 and was due to end 
on 19 January 2021. Mr H paid £419.47 for the policy, which included a discount of £37.34. 
The policy covered Mr H for the pre-existing cardiac condition hed declared.
In March 2020, Mr H took a planned trip between 4 March and 16 March 2020. He didnt 
need to make a claim on his policy during that trip. However, on 17 March 2020, as a result 
of the Covid-19 pandemic; the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all 
but essential travel. And on 23 March 2020, the UK government imposed national lockdown. 
So on 29 April 2020, while national and international restrictions remained in place, Mr H got 
in touch with AIG to cancel his policy. He asked for a proportionate refund of the policy from 
1 April 2020 until the date of expiry.
AIG turned down Mr Hs request. It said that the policy terms did allow for a pro-rata refund 
of premium if an annual multi-trip policy was cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling-off 
period, but only if a policyholder hadnt travelled. As Mr H had taken a trip before cancelling 
the policy, it said he wasnt entitled to a refund of his premium.
Mr H was unhappy with AIGs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started on 20 January 2020 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time, including while Mr H had travelled in March 2020.
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
And he noted that on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, Mr Hs claim wasnt covered. 
But he thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this 
complaint was for AIG to pay Mr H a proportionate refund of the premium hed paid from the 
date he cancelled the policy on 29 April 2020, until the end date. Thats because he said that 
AIG was no longer carrying the risk of Mr H making any claims once the policy had been 
cancelled.
AIG disagreed. It said there wasnt a worldwide travel ban from 29 April 2020 and it was 
possible that Mr H couldve travelled again if hed wanted to, including in the UK. And it 
wouldve covered any claims, i.e. for personal possessions. It said insurers didnt know what, 
if any trips, had been taken until claims were made. It didnt think it was reasonable to ask 
AIG to depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms. And it didnt think it would be 
treating its customers fairly if it refunded Mr H, but not its other policyholders if they hadnt 
travelled due to Covid-19.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think AIG has treated Mr H fairly. Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation of your Policy
However, if You cancel after 14 days of receipt of Your Policy:
For Annual Multi-Trip policies provided the premium has been paid in full You shall be 
entitled to a proportionate rebate of premium in respect of the unexpired period showing on 
the insurance provided You have not travelled, made a claim, or intend to make a claim.
Its clear that Mr Hs policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund.
And as Ive set out above, the contract of insurance says that AIG will only pay a pro-rata 
refund of premium if a policy is cancelled more than 14 days after they receive it if they 
havent travelled. In this case, Mr H has told us that he did travel, for a 12-day period, before 
the FCO advised against all but essential travel and prior to the national lockdown. So on a 
strict interpretation of the contract, I accept that AIG isnt required to pay Mr H any pro-rata 
refund of premium.
However, Im also required to take into account what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19. I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if I consider 
they result in an unfair outcome.
In the circumstances of this case, I agree that AIG was bearing the risk of Mr H needing to 
make claims for any number of trips he mightve had planned between 20 January 2020 and 
19 January 2021. This included cover for the trip he took in March 2020, although Im aware 
he didnt need to make any claims during this trip. Im satisfied that AIG was covering the 
risk of Mr H making claims for any pre-booked trips between 20 January 2020 and 29 April 
2020 (when he asked to cancel the policy). So I agree its entitled to keep the premium it 
paid for Mr Hs cover during this period of time.
But after Mr H asked to cancel the policy, AIG was no longer bearing any risk of him needing 
to make any claims. Even if Mr H had had other trips booked during that period, once AIG 
was no longer insuring him, it wouldnt have had any liability for anything which may have 
arisen during those holidays. So I dont think its reasonable to turn down Mr Hs refund 
request on this basis.Id also point out that most, if not all, insurance policies provide either no, or limited 
cancellation rights in the event a policys cancelled outside of 14-days. But in my experience, 
many insurers are now offering policyholders in similar circumstances pro-rata refunds of 
their premiums in recognition of the unique challenges Covid-19 posed the industry and 
consumers. So I think it would be fair for AIG to step away from its strict contractual position 
in these circumstances.
This means that Im satisfied a fair outcome to this complaint would be for AIG to calculate 
and pay a pro-rata refund of Mr Hs premium, from the date he first asked to cancel the 
policy on 29 April 2020 until the cover end date on 19 January 2020, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct American International Group UK Limited to calculate and pay a pro-rata refund of Mr 
Hs premium, from the date he first asked to cancel the policy on 29 April 2020 until the 
cover end date on 19 January 2020, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman