DRN-2540500
The complaint
Mr H has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a theft claim under 
his property owners insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H owns a number of rental properties which were covered under a property owners 
policy with UKI. In June 2018 the policy renewed.  
In January 2019 Mr H made a claim to UKI for theft in respect of one of his properties. UKI 
declined the claim. It said that the property was only covered for fire, lightning, explosion 
and aircraft (FLEA) and property owners liability because it hadnt been told the property 
was occupied.
Mr H said his broker had told UKI in late June 2018 to add loss of rent cover for this 
property. He thought UKI should have realised from this that the property was occupied and 
updated the cover accordingly.
As UKI didnt change its decision, Mr H brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt think UKI had treated Mr H unfairly by not changing 
his cover and accepting the claim.
As Mr H didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy covered a large number of properties. It was a tailored policy, allowing Mr H to 
choose a level of cover for each property suited to his needs. So it would have been 
important for Mr H (or his broker on his behalf) to check the policy documents carefully to 
check what exactly the policy covered in respect of each property.
UKI pointed this out in a prominent warning on the front page of the Schedule. It said:
IMPORTANT NOTES 
Please check the details on this renewal document to ensure that you have the cover you 
require. If you have any queries, please contact your intermediary who will be pleased to 
help.
With regard to the property in question, there was the following exclusion:
Peril Exclusion
Cover in respect of this Section/Item/Location excludes any Damage arising as a result of 
the following Perils:
...
9. Theft.
Essentially this property was only covered for FLEA and property owners liability.
In June 2018 Mr Hs broker contacted UKI and asked it to note a change of occupancy at a 
different location and to add or amend the loss of rent cover for various properties, including 
the property in question. UKI did that and sent an updated Schedule to the broker.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that before the policy was renewed and shortly after 
updated, Mr H had entered into a new tenancy agreement for this property. Mr H said it was 
an oversight that UKI wasnt notified about this.
Im not convinced that UKI failed Mr H by not checking whether a particular property was 
occupied or not. There may be reasons why a property is let (and so loss of rent cover is 
required) but not actually occupied (for example due to the tenant being ill or abroad for a 
long period of time). The broker had already notified it about a change in the occupancy 
status of another property. I think it was reasonable for UKI to assume that Mr H and/or the 
broker had checked the Schedule and made all the changes to cover that were needed at 
that time. It follows from that I dont think UKI treated Mr H unfairly by declining his theft 
claim as the property wasnt covered for that peril.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman