DRN-2170654
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy about the way Saltire Facilities Management Limited have handled an 
insurance claim she made after she found a water leak in her bathroom.
What happened
In May 2020, Mrs H found she had a leak of water from a towel rail in her bathroom. Mrs H 
said she had a heating and water emergency insurance policy with Saltire, that should have 
covered her for any repairs. 
Mrs H said as the leak was found on a Sunday an engineer was sent under the emergency 
cover of her policy. The engineer couldnt repair the leak and had to turn off her boiler. He 
said Saltire would be in touch the next day. He didnt tell Mrs H that her towel rail wasnt 
covered under her insurance policy. And when the repair was done, shed been told she had 
to pay for it, in total £415. As she didnt have any other option, she agreed but complained to 
Saltire.
Saltire said Mrs H would have been sent the terms and conditions of her policy. And the leak 
was found to be from damage to a pipe, an exclusion under the terms of her insurance 
policy. But said that they wouldnt charge Mrs H for the emergency call out as the engineer 
should have told her that her policy wouldnt cover the repairs. They removed the charge of 
£215.
Mrs H said she was told the repair wasnt covered because her towel rail wasnt covered 
under the policy. And shed hadnt been sent any terms and conditions by Saltire. Mrs H was 
also unhappy as the repair hadnt been done properly as she still had a leak which she had 
to arrange a further repair for. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said the terms and conditions would have been available on Saltires 
website and signposted each year to Mrs H on her policy renewal. He said the exclusion 
term applied by Saltire had been applied fairly.
Mrs H didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mrs Hs frustration as she s said shed had a new bathroom fitted in May 
2019. And shed had her insurance policys annual inspection carried out in November 2019 
with no issues found with her bathroom. In reaching my decision where there is a dispute 
about what has happened, I have to consider the evidence provided by both parties to 
determine whether Saltire has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mrs H.
Mrs H had a maintenance, repair and service agreement with Saltire for her heating system - 
this included her boiler, valves, thermostat, radiators and pipes, her electrics, plumbing and 
drains. And included an unlimited priority call out for an emergency.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Hs policy say:
In relation to your water supply, plumbing and waste systems, we will attend under the 
terms of this agreement to make safe and to provide assistance to restore water supply, 
plumbing and waste systems to the home following an emergency arising from the sudden 
and unexpected failure of or damage to the water supply, plumbing or waste systems in the 
home which has or may result in internal water leakage, flooding or water damage to the 
home. This agreement does not cover in particular, but not limited to,..
 
And go on to give exclusions including:
an event which is the result of an inherent defect in the water supply, plumbing or
drainage installation or results from negligence or neglect
And it is this exclusion Saltire has applied in declining Mrs Hs insurance claim. So, I have 
considered whether Saltire had applied this exclusion correctly.
From the worksheet details provided by Saltire, the engineer who visited Mrs H for the 
emergency call out said:
joiner will be needed to open up wall behind towel rail (tiled wall) and pipe extended as only 
1inch of pipe is sticking through the wall and is all bashed unable to get cap on pipe
And I can see from the repair worksheets that:
re-pipe 8mm pipe under floor in to towel rail, fill and vent system, reset and test boiler
I can see the repair to the leak was the replacement of the pipe work. So, Im persuaded that 
Saltire has applied the exclusion correctly as the insufficient and damaged piping would be 
considered an inherent defect. So, I cant say Saltire has acted unfairly by applying this 
exclusion for the reasons outlined above.
I know Mrs H will be disappointed as she said she wasnt told this was the reason for the 
exclusion at the time of the repair. Neither was this pointed out to her during the annual 
inspection. The terms and conditions of Mrs Hs policy say:
While our inspection will be as thorough as possible, there may be faults which we cannot
identify, for example, because part of your systems is built into the fabric of your home and
to inspect it would require intrusive steps to gain access.
As mentioned in the engineers comments, the pipe in question was behind the towel rail, 
within a tiled wall. So, I cant say Saltire had acted unfairly or unreasonably in failing to 
identify the damaged pipe at the annual inspection.
Mrs H has said the leak wasnt fixed properly and she had to get a family friend, who was an 
engineer, to repair the leak, which he found to be caused by a faulty lock shield barrel. But I 
cant say the repair done by Saltire was unnecessary or that they hadnt repaired the 
pipework. The evidence Mrs H has provided only mentions a repair to a radiator. So, I cant 
comment further.Im pleased to see that Saltire accepted the engineer should have told Mrs H that the repairs 
wouldnt be covered under her policy and have removed the £215 for the emergency call 
out.
But I cant say theyve acted unfairly by applying the insurance policy exclusion so the 
remaining costs for the repair that was done was payable, as it wasnt covered by Mrs Hs 
insurance policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman