DRN-3543513
The complaint
Miss D is complaining Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund transactions she made as part of 
a scam.
What happened
Miss D came into contact with an investment business, which Ill refer to as R.
Between 12 May and 26 May 2020, Miss D invested over £200,000. Individual 
transactions ranged from £1,000 and up to £47,000. On 27 May 2020, Miss D said 
she requested to withdraw her balance and in June 2020, she received several 
credits into her account totalling £113,740.
In July and September 2020, Barclays raised chargeback claims after Miss D told 
them she believed shed been scammed. R responded defending the claim. It said at 
the point Miss D requested to withdraw her funds, this was paid to her and overall, it 
had provided the intended service she was expecting. Barclays took no further 
action. Unhappy with this, Miss D referred matters to our service.
On 31 May 2022, I issued a provisional decision, which explained why I didnt the 
complaint should be upheld. Neither side responded by the deadline given. 
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not received a response to my provisional findings from either side, I see no reason 
to change what I said. For completeness, Ive included my provisional findings below. 
Its broadly accepted that Miss D authorised the payments to R, in line with the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017. Id agree with that, because Miss D consented to 
them by using the form and in accordance with the procedure agreed to make card 
payments. 
This means that the starting position is Miss D is liable for the payments made to R. 
But as she points out, that doesnt detract from the other things wed fairly and 
reasonably expect Barclays to do. Most relevant here is to be on the lookout for 
unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate she was at risk of fraud and 
intervene appropriately.
Given the value of these transactions in comparison to Miss Ds normal spending, its 
possible to say Barclays shouldve stepped in at some point. But Im not persuaded 
that there wouldve been enough, at that time, to have uncovered a potential scam  
and, therefore, to justify that they ought to have provided a warning to Miss D.
Thats because Id have expected Barclays to have made reasonable enquiries to 
establish whether Miss D was at risk of financial harm. And Im satisfied that with 
these questions, it wouldve been established that she was investing with a company 
that was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). I think that wouldve 
reasonably led Barclay to conclude Miss D wasnt at risk here  to say otherwise is to 
suggest that they ought to have reached a conclusion on R that their own regulator 
had not yet.
I recognise that, a short time later, the FCA issued a supervisory notice and removed 
Rs authority  ultimately suggesting this was a scam. But this information wasnt 
available at the time. And to be clear, while Id expect Barclays to warn a customer if 
their discussion leads them to think theres a risk of a scam, that doesnt extend to 
telling people to be wary of risky investments.
It follows that I dont think Barclays reasonably ought to have done more to prevent 
Miss Ds dealings with R.
Ive also considered how Barclays helped Miss D with recovering her money from R. 
There are limited chargeback rights relevant to situations such as these, that could 
allow Miss D to claim the available balance with R. Ive seen that Barclays pursued 
this and ultimately her balance with R, £113,740, was returned. So I dont think 
Barclays couldve done more here.
I know Miss D feels very strongly about this  and given what a horrible experience 
shes been through, thats understandable. But from what Ive carefully considered, I 
dont think Barclays can be fairly blamed for her losses. So I dont ask them to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman