DRN-3186097
The complaint
Miss H and Mr J are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined their travel 
insurance claim.
All reference to URV includes all its agents.
What happened
Miss H and Mr J took out a single trip travel insurance policy on 11 January 2020. The policy 
is underwritten by URV. Their intended dates of travel were from 31 May 2020 to 5 June 
2020.
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  known 
formerly as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential 
international travel. This advice remained in place throughout the dates Miss H and Mr J 
were due to travel. 
On 26 May 2020, their flights were cancelled by the airline provider and Miss H and Mr J 
were unable to go ahead due to government regulations restricting travel abroad.
They submitted a claim with URV for the cancellation and their accommodation costs. URV 
said they had no cover under their policy for the circumstances they found themselves in. 
URV declined the claim.
Miss H and Mr J were unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it and upheld it. She said overall, the way the policy terms and conditions had 
been presented meant that the combined effect of them wasnt made clear to Miss H and Mr 
J. She didnt think it was fair and that it was likely Miss H and Mr J wouldnt have bought the 
policy if they realised there would be no cover under the policy if FCDO advice had changed.
URV responded. It didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to 
be looked at by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS also says that insurers should give consumers appropriate information about a
policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This should include an
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a consumer a summary of certain
things  including excluded risks.
Regulatory guidance (The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair
Treatment of Customers) from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says businesses
should consider the impact of their actions  or inactions  on the customer throughout the
lifecycle of the service being provided.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documentation
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the IPID, in this case. 
The IPID summarises the cover available. On page 2, it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region when the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel.
And the policy terms and conditions under the cancellation section on page 7 says:
If you are unable to go on your trip
If this happened:
You had to cancel your trip because the following unexpectedly happened before you 
left home:
you, a travelling companion, a family member, a close business colleague, or 
the person you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died; 
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and 
alternative accommodation was not available;
you, or a travelling companion were made redundant;
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM Forces have your leave 
orders cancelled.
This is what we will do:
We will pay you up to £1,000 for your share of any costs that are directly related to 
your trip, which you have paid and cannot get back from anyone else, or which 
cannot be transferred or used for another purpose.
Was it unreasonable for URV to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy because: 
Miss H and Mr J cancelled their trip because the FCDO advised against all but 
essential travel to the destination they were due to travel to. Thats not something 
that is covered under the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or 
listed insured event. However, taking into account the relevant law and industry 
guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Miss H and Mr J had travelled abroad theyd have not followed FCDO advice. So, they wouldnt have been covered 
by the policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
changes in FCDO guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was 
made sufficiently clear to Miss H and Mr J.   
Miss H and Mr J would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in 
order to understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think 
that this information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent 
way. So, I dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently 
clear 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Miss H 
and Mr J and URV. I think its unlikely that Miss H and Mr J would have purchased 
the policy if they had realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO 
guidance changed after theyd bought the policy. 
Putting things right
Im directing URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. 
URV should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss H and Mr Js complaint against Union 
Reiseversicherung AG and direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman