DRN-1706618
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr B. The car here 
was around eleven years old and had already completed about 91,000 miles. So, Id expect 
some wear and tear.
Mr B says he noticed the suspension problem quite soon after hed taken receipt of the car, 
but he didnt report anything for about a year. In those circumstances the relevant legislation 
places the onus on him to demonstrate there is a problem and that problem has been there 
from the beginning.
There clearly was a problem with the cars suspension. The presence of cable ties may 
suggest the problem was there when the car was supplied, and I note that the independent 
inspector has suggested that may be the case as well.
But Im not persuaded thats the most likely cause because:
I think if there was a problem with the suspension from the beginning Mr B would 
have reported it before a year had passed.
Mr Bs car was in a collision in December 2018. This seems to have been covered by 
the other sides insurers and I would have expected a thorough check of the vehicle 
to establish if any other problems were present. I think the issue would have been 
likely to have been noted then.
The car passed its MOT in February 2019. There were no suspension issues 
recorded and I think there would have been if the car had been experiencing 
problems at that time.
So, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence this car was faulty when supplied and I 
dont think Close Brothers need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman