DRN-3484479
The complaint
Your Mr D complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) didnt unblock his accounts quickly enough 
following a security breach.
What happened
Mr D emailed Revolut on 25 January 2021 to say that hed been robbed and his mobile 
phone had been taken. He asked Revolut to block the use of the app on his phone, and 
any activity on his Revolut debit card. But he also asked that the debit card wasnt 
blocked. Between 26 January 2021 and 15 February 2021, there were many long online 
chats to try to recover Mr Ds access to Revolut. All were unsuccessful. On 26 April 2021, 
Mr Ds account was unblocked.
Mr D complained. He said the online chats were very inefficient and he had to provide his 
ID credentials repeatedly. The app kept crashing. He said he spent hours online trying to 
re- identify himself with Revolut. He said he was told in Revoluts final response that he 
could access his account via a desktop instead  but this wasnt possible as it relied on 
using his phone (which he didnt have). Because of what happened, he couldnt pay his 
credit card bill and had to pay late payment fees; and he couldnt sell his crypto 
investments as he wanted to. Because the market had moved against him, he said his 
costs were £4,000.
Revolut said (on 5 February 2021) that because of what had happened, they had blocked 
Mr Ds accounts to ensure his money was safe. They needed to follow their security 
processes to unblock his accounts. They said theyd be in touch to help Mr D to do that. 
Revolut said he could access the Revolut accounts through the web-based version of the 
account through a desktop computer. They said he would need to enter his phone number 
and passcode, plus a further verification step, to complete that process. Once that had 
been done, Mr D would then be able to contact Revolut again via the chat function so the 
security review could be completed.
Mr D brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that Revolut hadnt acted reasonably
He said Revolut were entitled to re-establish Mr Ds access to his accounts in a secure 
way, and therefore he acknowledged that security processes were needed. He could see 
that the processes of the online chats had been a source of great frustration for Mr D, and 
this was to a large extent the result of chats being discontinued by Revolut, or the app 
crashing. He noted that in a number of cases, the agent said theyd be back in touch with 
Mr D on the chat, but it then fell out as a result of it being idle for too long  while the agent 
went away.
So, Mr D became increasingly frustrated. He felt that Revolut should bear most of the 
responsibility for this. And  even though Revolut had said that Mr D could establish 
access to Revolut (in the absence of his phone) via a desktop, he accepted Mr Ds 
evidence that this wasnt possible. On balance, he said that Mr D should receive 
compensation of £300.
Revolut accepted our investigators view, but Mr D didnt. He said the inconvenience, and
the cost of not being able to deal in crypto trades cost him £4,000.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
The timelines here are that Mr D advised Revolut about the robbery of his phone on 25 
January 2021. And Revolut finally gave him access to his accounts on 26 April 2021. So  
that took over 13 weeks.
Mr Ds initial complaint said that hed asked Revolut to allow his debit card to be used, and 
this wasnt done  as they blocked his accounts, including the card. But I think that given 
the circumstances of what happened to Mr D, Revolut were entitled to stop his debit card 
alongside his app-based account  to protect him. And I dont dispute either that Revolut  
as an online bank  must have secure processes in place to identify customers when they 
need to re-activate accounts after a security breach such as happened to Mr D.
After Mr D let Revolut know what happened, there were a lot of online chats in which Mr D 
tried to re-establish his identity to get access to his Revolut accounts again. Ive seen 21 
chats between 26 January 2021 and 15 February 2021. I can see that Mr D tried to identify 
himself many times over without success and using different documents and information. 
Several of the chats timed out through inactivity  while an agent said they were looking 
into what happened and what to do and while his request was escalated to senior 
management. This meant that a new chat had to be started again  and each time a new 
set of security checks had to be started as  quite reasonably, the previous ones couldnt 
be used or recovered. Mr D also started new chats  given his frustration  sometimes 
using a new phone hed purchased. Revolut told us that this also caused further delays  
as it led to their needing to do more checks as  quite understandably  their security 
systems flagged these to be needed. Our investigator believed that on balance, the bulk of 
the responsibility for the inconvenience suffered by Mr D lay with Revolut  and having 
looked at Mr Ds evidence and that provided by Revolut, I agree with that view.
In Revoluts final response, they said that Mr D could re-establish access to his account 
using a desktop  with access via the web based app. Mr D provided evidence that this 
didnt work  as it needed authorisation using the app on a mobile phone - and this clearly 
wasnt possible in his circumstances. And Revolut shouldve realised this as Mr D had 
described his situation to them. This led to further frustrations and delays.
I was concerned that after the considerable activity which took place up to 15 February 
2021, Mr D wasnt given access to his accounts until 26 April 2021, so I asked Revolut 
why that was. They told us that it wasnt until 10 April 2021 that Revolut tried to contact Mr 
D again  i.e. a further period of almost eight weeks. During which time, Mr D didnt have
access to his accounts  despite what had taken place in January 2021 and early February 
2021. I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect Revolut to have reached out to Mr D 
well before that time to try to resolve matters with him  but they didnt. So  I think that was 
a further failing by Revolut.
And so  I need to decide on how to resolve Mr Ds complaint. He says he lost £4,000 as 
he wanted to sell investments while he was locked out of his accounts and couldnt  he 
said the market moved against him. He showed us he sold investments for £14,399 on 27 
April 2021. While I note that this was the day after he regained access to his Revolut 
accounts, its not possible for me to conclude that any losses were a direct consequence of 
what happened  it is essentially something which can be claimed with the benefit of 
hindsight. For example, the value of the investment may have declined further after the 
sale. And I also noted that there wasnt any evidence that Mr D tried to contact Revolut 
again after 15 February 2021  which may have meant he couldve regained access to his 
accounts earlier than he did and had the opportunity to sell the investments earlier . So  he 
must share some responsibility in that respect.But because I think Revolut should have initiated further contact with Mr D earlier than they 
did  on 10 April 2021  I think its reasonable to ask them to pay a higher amount of 
compensation. Our service has set out criteria on which to base awards. We say: an award 
of over £300 and up to around £750 might be fair where the impact of a mistake has 
caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and 
disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. Typically, the impact lasts over many 
weeks or months. And  I think its fair to say that Mr Ds experience falls within this 
category and therefore, I propose to increase the compensation to £500 (from £300).
Responses to the provisional decision:
Revolut had nothing further to add. Mr D said that he felt that the compensation should fall 
towards the top end of the scale: i.e. £750.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr D has said  but in my experience and considering our services 
definition of awards, Im satisfied that the compensation of £500 is right for what happened. 
And so  I am making a final decision which is consistent with the provisional decision  i.e. 
compensation of £500.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And Revolut Ltd must:
Pay Mr D compensation of £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman