DRN-3073521
The complaint
Mr P, through his representative, has complained about the transfer of his benefits in the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a person pension plan. It says Mr P was advised to 
transfer by Carpenter John Financial Services Ltd (CJFS) and another financial business 
(which Ill call Firm A).
Mr Ps representative considers that the advice provided to Mr P was flawed and has 
resulted in him suffering a financial loss.
 
What happened
In March 2016 Mr Ps employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business. This included the possibility of the BSPS being separated from the company. 
Mr P was a member of the BSPS and has said that there were a lot of worrying rumours 
about the BSPS, including the possibility of his pension moving into the Pension Protection 
Fund (PPF) and the possibility of a new scheme to replace the BSPS. He said everything he 
heard was negative. Unsure of what to do he sought advice. He said he approached CFJS 
because they were already advising his colleagues. 
In early October 2017 Mr P had an unscheduled meeting with CJFS. Mr P says it lasted less 
than 30 minutes, during which he was asked about his circumstances and talked through a 
risk assessment exercise. CJFS didnt have the necessary permissions to advise Mr P on 
the pension transfer so it referred him to Firm A and provided it with the information it had 
collected about Mr P at that time.
On 5 October 2017 Firm A wrote to Mr P confirming an appointment had been made for him 
to meet with an adviser to review his British Steel pension on 11 October 2017. 
Firm A issued its suitability report on 26 October 2017 advising Mr P to transfer from BSPS 
to a personal pension plan with a provider I will call Firm C. Mr P accepted this 
recommendation.
In February 2018 Mr P approached CJFS asking that it take over the servicing of his 
personal pension plan with Firm C. 
In July 2019, Mr P, through his representative, complained about the advice to CJFS and 
Firm A. CJFS responded that it didnt provide him with any advice on his transfer from BSPS 
and so werent able to investigate the matter further. I understand Firm A investigated the 
complaint but concluded the advice it provided was suitable. Firm A has since gone into 
liquidation.
Mr Ps representative referred his complaint to our service, saying CJFS should be held
liable for the advice as it was a joint venture between the two businesses. The
representative said Mr P had been verbally advised to transfer by CJFS and that the
transfer of his BSPS benefits wouldnt have taken place if CJFS had met all of its regulatory 
obligations, including especially, acting in Mr Ps best interest. 
One of our investigators considered things but didnt agree. She wasnt persuaded that 
CJFS had given Mr P any advice to transfer or that Mr P had relied on such advice. She 
didnt think CJFS actions had gone beyond that of introducing Mr P to Firm A and so it 
couldnt be held responsible for any losses due to unsuitable advice to transfer out of BSPS.
As Mr P didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Before I explain why, I think its important for me to recognise the strength of feeling Mr P 
and CJFS have about this matter. Both parties have provided detailed submissions to 
support their respective positions. Ive read and considered carefully all the information that 
has been provided to this service in respect of this complaint. However, I hope neither party 
will take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every point 
raised, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is more
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I should also note that its not my role to punish the business for any regulatory breaches
either; thats the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). My 
role is to decide if CJFS has done anything wrong and where appropriate award redress for 
any losses for which CJFS is responsible.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint.
Mr P is unhappy that he was advised to transfer his benefits out of the BSPS. CJFS has said 
that it didnt advise Mr P on the transfer and confirmed the reason that it referred Mr P to 
Firm A was because it didnt have the permissions to give this sort of advice. 
Firm A, on the other hand, had the relevant permissions to complete this transfer. I note that 
the BSPS wouldnt have allowed the transfer to proceed if the request hadnt come from a 
firm with the correct permissions. And although Ive noted the comments of Mr Ps 
representative relating to statements made by CJFS in support of the transfer, there is no 
documentary evidence in this complaint that it advised Mr P to transfer. 
Mr Ps representative says CJFS breached its regulatory obligations to treat Mr P fairly, act 
with care, have due regard to his best interests and manage conflicts of interest when 
dealing with Firm A.  But I consider that when CJFS introduced Mr P to Firm A in expectation 
that it would provide suitable advice, it made this introduction because Firm A had defined 
benefit pension transfer permissions, and CJFS did not. As CJFS adviser wasnt authorised 
to provide advice on defined benefit transfers, I think that it was reasonable for him to refer 
Mr P to an adviser with the necessary permissions. So, Im satisfied that this was 
discharging its regulatory duties to which Mr Ps representatives refer.
Nevertheless, I acknowledge the possibility that there may have been discussions between Mr P and CJFS which may have given him the impression that transferring would be in his 
best interests. But it was Firm A which was responsible for the formal advice. And I think its 
more likely than not, or at least to be reasonably expected, that Mr P would have placed 
considerable weight on a recommendation from a business with the proper qualifications to 
do so, which would, or at least should, have taken into account his circumstances and 
objectives. 
I appreciate that Mr P thinks more could have been done to prevent him from transferring
given the advice he received from Firm A. But Im not persuaded that this was the 
responsibility of the CJFS given it had discharged its duty to only advise on an area it was
qualified to act. In any event, it would seem contradictory to say on the one hand that CJFS
couldnt advise on the defined benefit transfer, while on the other suggesting it should have 
identified faults in the advice of a separate, authorised firm, that was permitted to provide 
such advice.
Mr Ps representative says that even if CJFS didnt provide advice, they can still be held 
responsible because but for the introduction to Firm A, Mr P wouldnt have transferred his 
pension. Its said there was a joint venture between the two firms and referenced a previous 
decision issued by this service and a court case, which it considers supports its argument 
that CJFS should be held jointly liable for advice provided by Firm A.  
Ive thought about this, but an introduction isnt a regulated activity as set out in the 
regulators Dispute Resolution rules. And ultimately, Mr P transferred his pension benefits 
after Firm A advised him to do so. I appreciate whats been said about CJFS actions, but I 
dont think they led to Mr Ps losses. This is because he received advice to transfer from a 
firm authorised to provide such advice and Ive seen nothing which persuades me that CJFS 
gave Mr P any information or advice that would have led him to transfer from BSPS if Firm A 
had advised him not to do so. 
So I also think that any loss would be attributable to Firm As advice, and not to the 
introduction as such. In other words, I dont consider CJFS was the cause of losses that 
resulted from the transfer. It was the transfer advice and the subsequent actions of Firm A 
that led to Mr Ps loss, not the introduction made by CJFS.
Furthermore, this service decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. So the 
right outcome in one case may not be the right outcome in another as individual 
circumstances will inevitably vary. And whilst I must have regard for the law, the decision I 
come to on what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, may be 
different to what a court would decide. 
So in conclusion, on a fair and reasonable assessment of this complaint, I unable to 
conclude that CJFS advised Mr P to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension 
arrangement or that it made an error or treated him unfairly. As such, I wont be requiring 
CJFS to pay compensation to Mr P or to take any further action in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman