DRN-2129407
The complaint
Mr M says his Nationwide Building Society mortgage was mis-sold. He says he was told that 
the interest rate on his five-year fixed rate product would reduce over that five-year period if 
his mortgage fell to under 65% loan to value (LTV).
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
Mr M applied for the mortgage product in March 2019 and the formal mortgage offer was 
issued on 26 March 2019. The mortgage completed in August 2019.
In the application call in March 2019 there was no mention of the interest rate being reduced 
if the LTV dropped once the mortgage was live
Mr M says he was told that in June/July 2019 in a phone call, but theres no record of a call 
coming in from Mr M at that time. 
Mr M has asked Do they not log calls specifically for the customer? The short answer is 
that yes, Nationwide does log calls on the customers record. Any time a customer calls and 
there is a specific query then the customers record will be opened up so there will be a 
footprint showing. The call handler would need to do that to access the information theyd 
need to take the customer through security. Nationwide has provided us with a copy of the 
customer record for Mr M and there wasnt any such footprint made on his record in 
June/July 2019. Nationwide has also searched its incoming call history for the months in 
question looking for any calls coming in from the mobile number that Mr M provided; again, 
no calls were found.
In any event I dont think Nationwide finding a call would help Mr M here as it is unlikely a 
Nationwide mortgage adviser told Mr M what he thinks he was told, so it seems this may 
have been a misunderstanding on his part. I say this for a few reasons.
When he complained to Nationwide Mr M said hed been told that once his mortgage 
reduced to 65% LTV his rate would reduce to around 1.7%. And on our complaint form Mr M 
said, I quote:
Prior to this I had a discussion with a Nationwide Build Society mortgage advisor, with 
the final conversation taking place around early July, during this call I was advised the 
interest rate I would pay would lower once I fall lower than 65% LTV, at that moment of 
time my LTV was 70%, based on the advice the interest applicable would fall and be 
adjusted once I reach the <65% LTV I secured the mortgage for a 5 year period.
There are a few problems with these submissions:
Mr M didnt secure the mortgage in July 2019, hed already secured it in March 2019. 
He couldnt have based any decision on applying for a rate in March 2019 on a 
conversation he says didnt take place until July 2019. 
Nationwide didnt offer a 65% LTV rate banding and hadnt done for very many years. 
Nationwides rate bandings were up to 60% LTV and then 60% to 75% LTV.
The mortgage that Mr M applied for was a fraction under 75%, it wasnt 70%.
Nationwide has never offered a product that works this way, and Im not aware of any 
other mainstream mortgage lender doing so either.
Even if I were to look at the up to 60% LTV rate banding, the rate at that time was 
1.89% (versus the 1.99% that Mr M has); it wasnt around 1.7%.
It would be very unusual for a Nationwide mortgage adviser to make so many very basic 
errors about the products that they discuss day-in day-out. So, in the absence of the call, I 
can only assume Mr M has misunderstood the information he says he was given.
When considering any complaint like this, as Mr M is the one bringing the complaint against 
Nationwide, to uphold the complaint Mr Ms version needs to be more likely than 
Nationwides version; not just as likely. Having considered what both sides have said I dont 
find Mr Ms version to be any more than just as likely.
The mortgage offer explained the interest rate as:
An initial fixed interest rate of 1.99% for the remainder of the month in which the 
mortgage completes plus 60 full Months
This is a repayment loan with an initial interest rate which is fixed for the remainder 
of the month in which the loan completes plus 60 full months
After the fixed rate ends, the interest rate on this loan can change. This means the 
amount of your instalments could increase or decrease. For example, if the interest 
rate rose to 9.49%, your payments could increase to £1,525.82.
If there was any contractual obligation on Nationwide to vary the interest rate in the way 
Mr M thinks they should then this would be explained in the mortgage offer. Instead it states 
the interest rate is 1.99% and that will remain the same for five years.The mortgage adviser also issued a document which set out her recommendations and that 
said:
I've recommended that you:
Take your new borrowing on a 5 year fixed rate at 1.99%. This means your interest 
rate will stay the same until April 2024.
Mr M has said he only made the overpayments he did as he believed hed be moved to a 
lower interest rate. I cant comment on that as Im satisfied  on balance  Nationwide didnt 
tell him that would happen. I also cant comment on why Mr M didnt receive Nationwides 
final response letter that I can see was correctly addressed and sent out to him.
For all the reasons given I cant uphold this complaint, and there are no grounds for me to 
make any order or award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman