DRN-3536412
The complaint
Mr B has brought a range of complaints about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) in relation to his 
personal accounts
What happened
The background of these complaints has been detailed by our Investigator previously. For 
this reason, Im going to summarise matters within this decision.
Mr B has brought various complaints to this Service concerning HSBCs actions. 
This Service has considered the jurisdiction of some of these complaints under a 
separate reference. These concern direct debits, Subject Access Requests (SAR), 
service, and a credit card holiday amongst other issues. I will address these points 
separately within the respective decision.
This complaint concerns whether HSBC gave Mr B incorrect information, his 
personal accounts that were closed by HSBC, alongside not being able to use his 
credit card. 
Incorrect information complaint 
oMr B complained to HSBC in April 2020 regarding information it had given 
him. He said he was given incorrect and conflicting information about mini 
statements. HSBC denied it had refused to offer these to Mr B. 
oMr B said a HSBC text message had asked him to deposit money by a certain 
time, and another text message said hed need to deposit funds with a slightly 
later time in the day. HSBC said one message related to an unauthorised 
overdraft fee, and the second was to prevent a direct debit being returned. 
oOur Investigator considered this point and didnt uphold it. Saying HSBC was 
able to notify customers about accounts was reasonable and that he wasnt 
persuaded Mr B was given incorrect information.
Closing accounts complaint
oIn July 2020 HSBC wrote to Mr B to tell him it would be closing his accounts. 
The accounts were then closed in September 2020. 
oMr B complained about this  saying HSBC had acted unfairly in closing the 
accounts, and had done so in a discriminatory manner after making 
comments about his behaviour.
oOur Investigator considered this point and didnt uphold it. He said HSBC was 
able to close Mr Bs accounts without reason providing it gave appropriate 
notice and didnt do so unfairly. The Investigator said he wasnt provided with 
any evidence of discriminatory behaviour on HSBCs part. And Mr Bs 
behaviour to HSBC staff since then was abusive to a degree that wouldve 
justified its decision.
Credit card complaint
oMr B held an HSBC credit card. Prior to the card reaching its expiry date, it 
sent a new card to Mr B. Mr B complained in June 2021 as credit card 
payments were declined.
oHSBC initially said there was a block on the card  and following some back 
and forth with Mr B, it recognised it shouldve given clear information about 
the reason the card stopped working. This was due to a renewal card being 
sent which stopped the existing card from working after 30 days. It said it 
shouldve told Mr B this in the first call with him. It apologised and offered 
£150 compensation.
oThe Investigator considered this point and felt the £150 was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
The Investigator also explained he was unable to consider Mr Bs concerns about 
complaint handling in this instance as it fell outside of the powers of this Service.
Mr B disagreed with the view overall. He said he would provide further details of a 
call in which he was told he couldnt have mini statements. He also said HSBC hadnt 
been clear which of his accounts it was closing  and hed seen evidence theyd 
closed his account due to debt. He also raised a concern about HSBC not taking him 
through telephone security processes properly.
The Investigator looked again, saying HSBC had stood by its position that it had 
given clear information about the account closures, and hed seen nothing to conflict 
this. But HSBC had offered a payment of £250 as a gesture of goodwill to resolve the 
matter. The Investigator was still satisfied HSBC had closed the account fairly and 
didnt need to provide a reason to Mr B. He said the security concerns appeared to 
have no impact as Mr B was the correct person HSBC spoke to.
The Investigator also addressed Mr Bs comments about being provided with limited 
information from HSBC and he asked for details or calls that demonstrated this.
Mr B rejected the view and the Investigators findings, and so the complaint was passed to 
me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Incorrect information complaint 
HSBC denies it ever refused to provide Mr B with mini statements. From all of the 
evidence Ive been provided with, this appears to be the case. Mr B said he was told 
this wasnt possible in a call with HSBC, but despite being asked, he hasnt provided 
any details or further evidence to support this. So, the information available satisfies 
me there has been no mistake on HSBCs part here.
Mr B is unhappy with text messages sent to him that provided different timeframes by 
which funds would have to be deposited. HSBC has explained these different times 
related to different reasons (unauthorised overdraft fee and a direct debit). Im 
satisfied this was reasonable explanation. Mr B appears unhappy with having been 
sent these texts, but the impact of receiving text messages appears limited to me. So 
even if I felt HSBC had made a mistake by sending them, I wouldnt be making any 
award in this instance.Closing accounts complaint
The terms of Mr Bs HSBC accounts allow it to end agreements and close accounts 
in certain situations with no notice. And it says HSBC can close accounts providing it 
gives at least two months notice  and for this it doesnt need to provide a reason.
Ive read all of the correspondence between parties. And Im satisfied HSBCs letters 
of July 2020 and September 2020 were clear that it would be closing all accounts 
with the exception of any fixed term accounts, loans or mortgages until current 
arrangements expire. This gave Mr B notice of the intention to close and allowed him 
a reasonable period to manage his money and make alternative arrangements.
HSBC isnt required to share its reasons for closing the accounts given it provided Mr 
B with two months notice. And Im satisfied its reasons for doing so were valid and 
treated him as any other customer in the same circumstances. 
Mr B referenced HSBC discriminating against him under the relevant legislation. Ive 
taken into account all the relevant law when deciding on this complaint and Ive 
considered the impact of any of HSBCs mistakes on Mr B directly based on what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. However, if Mr B wants 
a specific decision on whether HSBC has breached any Equality legislation, he will 
need to take this matter to court as it will be best placed to consider this.
So, Im satisfied HSBCs actions were in line with the terms of its account and fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Our Investigator has touched on Mr Bs inappropriate behaviour to HSBC staff after 
the accounts were closed. But given Im satisfied its actions were fair, I see no 
reason to discuss this matter further.
Credit card complaint
HSBC has acknowledged it shouldve given Mr B clearer information about the 
reason his credit card was being declined. And it seems if it had shared information 
about a new card being received and activated this couldve avoided Mr B having to 
engage in an unnecessary back and forth with HSBC. 
Taking into account Mr Bs comments and everything thats happened, Im satisfied 
the apology HSBC has provided alongside its offer of £150 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Mr B has stressed that HSBC was unclear in its messaging given it had said all of his 
accounts would be closed, yet it had allowed him to seemingly continue using his 
credit card. Ive thought about this carefully, and while I accept HSBC possibly 
couldve been clearer on this point, Im satisfied the £150 it had offered was more 
than sufficient to account for any potential confusion relating to these two issues.
HSBC had offered £250 to Mr B as a gesture of goodwill. But for the reasons Ive 
given, Im not going to direct it to make this payment. So, it will be up to HSBC if it 
still wishes to offer this. 
Other complaints
Im in agreement with our Investigator that this Service is unable to consider Mr Bs 
specific complaints about HSBCs complaint handling.
Even if I agreed HSBC had failed to take Mr B through correct telephone security 
processes as hes alleged, I wouldnt make a compensatory award in these 
circumstances. I say this as the impact appears to be negligible as Mr B doesnt dispute he was the person HSBC spoke to. 
My final decision
For all of the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman