DRN-3421980
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as D, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wrongly closed 
its business current account. This meant D couldnt apply for a Bounce Back Loan.
 
Ds director, Miss F, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
D held a business current account with Lloyds.
 
In September 2020, Lloyds tried contacting D about the account. It had noticed some activity 
taking place outside of the UK, like instances of logging on to internet banking, and it wanted 
to know whether this represented a change in Ds business.
 
Lloyds contact attempts were unsuccessful. It tried telephoning D on 22 September and left 
Miss F a voicemail, then it wrote two letters  on 23 September and 3 November  but these 
werent responded to. As a result, Lloyds applied a block to Ds account on 27 November 
and then  on 18 December  issued notice of closure. Ds business current account was 
formally closed on 21 December. 
In January 2021, Miss F contacted Lloyds to complain about the closure of Ds account. 
During its investigation Lloyds found that Miss F had, in fact, responded to its requests for 
information. Shed called the bank to explain that shed been abroad visiting family and had 
needed to use Ds online banking to make some payments whilst she was there, which is 
why Lloyds had seen some offshore activity. Miss F had also confirmed to Lloyds that D was 
purely a UK-based business, and that there were no plans to change this.
  
Unfortunately, the person Miss F had spoken with hadnt recorded their conversation 
correctly. So, no notes existed on the banks systems. And this had led to Lloyds wrongly 
believing that it had received no response from D  culminating in the closure of the 
business current account.
 
Lloyds issued its final response on 9 February 2021. In it, the bank upheld Ds complaint and 
it apologised. Lloyds acknowledged that it had incorrectly closed Ds business current 
account and it offered to pay £500 compensation as a way of recognising the inconvenience 
the matter had caused. Moreover, Lloyds said D could apply to open a new business current 
account via a specialist team  and it provided Miss F with details of how to do so.
 
Miss F remained unhappy, so she referred Ds complaint to our service for an independent 
review. She said, in summary, that the matter had caused several mental health problems 
for her and that shed become extremely distressed because of it. Miss F felt that Lloyds 
mistake had taken away Ds chance of receiving a Bounce Back Loan, which it needed as 
support throughout the Covid-19 pandemic. Overall, Miss F didnt consider Lloyds resolution 
to Ds complaint to be fair and she didnt agree that it took into account the full impact to her 
personally.
 
An investigator here looked at what had happened. He agreed that there had clearly been an 
error on the banks part, but he didnt think Lloyds needed to take any further action. In 
summary, our investigator said:
The complainant in this case is D  a limited company and a separate entity to 
Miss F herself. As its director, Miss F was acting only to bring the complaint on Ds 
behalf. So, while he empathised with her, he couldnt consider any impact to 
Miss F personally as part of Ds complaint. 
Lloyds had made a mistake, and it shouldnt have closed Ds business current 
account. But £500 was enough compensation to recognise the impact the poor 
service had on D. 
While the account closure was clearly disruptive to D, there was no evidence to show 
it had suffered any losses as a direct result of Lloyds mistake. 
Lloyds had offered D the opportunity to apply for a new business current account and 
then, in turn, a Bounce Back Loan. That offer was both fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, but it hadnt been taken up by D. 
Even if D had been able to apply to Lloyds for a Bounce Back Loan, there was no 
guarantee the application wouldve been successful. D would still have had to pass 
the necessary checks which Lloyds was required to carry out under the Scheme 
rules. 
It appears that D has been unable to open a business current account elsewhere, but 
theres nothing to suggest this is in any way connected to Lloyds mistake. 
Miss F disagreed with our investigator. She said D had been robbed of the opportunity to 
apply for a Bounce Back Loan  which she was certain it wouldve been accepted for. The 
financial support wouldve been vital to her business at a difficult time, and D has been 
struggling ever since. Miss F also felt strongly that the impact to her should be considered as 
part of the complaint. 
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Lloyds made a mistake. The bank has said as much, its apologised 
and paid compensation for closing Ds business current account when it shouldnt have. 
Theres also no disagreement that Miss F did respond to the banks questions about D and 
Im satisfied that she did all she reasonably could to comply with the banks requests. So, 
what Ive considered here is whether Lloyds has done enough to put things right.
 
At the outset, Id like to reassure Miss F that I have read and considered everything shes 
said. Im sorry to hear shes been going through such a tough time and of just how much the 
matter has affected her. But having thought about the overall position very carefully, I dont 
think that Lloyds needs to take any further action to resolve Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
 
Given Lloyds had erroneously closed Ds account, the bank offered D the chance to reapply 
for a new business current account via a specialist team. The bank also said that D would 
then be able to apply for a Bounce Back Loan.
 D didnt take up this offer. That, of course, was its choice to make  and I can surely 
understand why, given Miss Fs trust in the bank had been damaged by what happened. But 
that said, Im satisfied that Lloyds decision to offer D the opportunity to reapply was the right 
thing to do in the circumstances. So, although D chose not to proceed, I think the banks 
offer here was reasonable. 
 
Miss F has said she tried to open a business current account for D elsewhere but was 
unable to do so  and she believes this was due to Lloyds actions. But while I appreciate 
Miss Fs strength of feeling on this point, Ive not seen anything to suggest that D was 
unsuccessful in its applications because of Lloyds mistake. So, I cant fairly conclude the 
bank was responsible for Ds difficulties in obtaining an account with another provider. 
Im aware that Miss F was able to keep D up and running by using her, and her partners, 
personal accounts. But shes said Lloyds actions caused severe disruption to her business 
which had led to direct losses as a consequence. Miss F hasnt, though, despite our 
requests, provided any evidence to demonstrate how D was impacted or to show that it 
incurred the losses she has claimed. So, while I know things have been hard for Miss F 
recently, without any supporting evidence, I dont think there is any basis on which I could 
fairly require Lloyds to pay any further compensation for this.
Turning to the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, Miss F believes D wouldve been successful in 
an application for borrowing. Shes said that shes aware of other businesses, with a smaller 
turnover than Ds, that were successful in their applications. So, she sees no reason why D 
wouldnt have been approved for a Bounce Back Loan. But while I wont know for certain 
what the outcome of an application wouldve been, its not true to say that D was guaranteed 
to be successful.
Thats because applicants had no entitlement to a Bounce Back Loan. Instead, under the 
rules of the Scheme, lenders had some discretion over how they accepted applications. And 
D wouldve been subject to customer fraud, anti-money laundering and Know Your 
Customer checks  which are an important legal and regulatory requirement that were also 
necessary under the Scheme rules.
In any event, Miss F had decided that D wouldnt reapply for a business current account and 
then a Bounce Back Loan with Lloyds. And while I can understand her reasons, her choice 
here isnt something I can hold Lloyds responsible for. So, it follows that I cant fairly agree 
that Lloyds actions denied D the opportunity to access the Scheme. Instead, Im satisfied 
that there was an opportunity to pursue an application for D  Miss F simply chose not to act 
upon it.
  
Its clear that the whole matter has had a profound effect on Miss F and her health. And I 
know that she wants this to be considered as part of Ds complaint. But as our investigator 
has already explained, under our rules, Miss F isnt the complainant here  D is. And a 
limited company cant suffer distress or upset. So, while I know Miss F strongly disagrees on 
this point, Im only able to assess the impact that the banks actions had on D and not her 
personally. 
With that in mind, in the overall circumstances, I think the £500 compensation Lloyds has 
already paid  albeit to Miss Fs account, given Ds account no longer existed  is enough to 
sufficiently recognise the inconvenience the bank caused D.
 
Further, Im satisfied that Lloyds provided D with the opportunity to reapply for a business 
current account if it wished to do so  which I think was a fair and reasonable offer to put 
things right. So, overall, I dont require Lloyds to take any further action.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman