DRN-3606511
The complaint
Mrs J complains that a car acquired with finance from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2018 Mrs J was supplied with a car and entered into a lease agreement with 
VWFS.
Mrs J experienced issues with the entertainment system and a noise when reversing. She 
contacted the local dealership in March 2019 to report this. The car went into the garage in 
June 2020 and again in September 2020, but the job sheets didnt say that any faults had 
been found.
Mrs J continued to experience the issues. She also began to experience issues with the 
wipers in summer 2021. In September 2021 Mrs J made a complaint to VWFS. In response, 
VWFS said it had spoken to the garage, who had confirmed that the car went in for a service 
in June 2021 and that no faults had been found.
In September 2021 a health check was carried out on the car. This identified a fault with the 
wiper motor, a seatbelt issue and a fault with the glovebox lid. The wiper motor and glove 
box lid were repaired.
Mrs J was unhappy with VWFSs response and brought her complaint to this service. She 
wants compensation for being provided with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality and for 
the poor customer service she received from the dealership.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although the video evidence from 
September 2021 showed issues with the entertainment system and the health check from 
September 2021 found a fault with the wiper motor, seatbelt and glove box lid, there was no 
evidence to show that the car had these faults prior to September 2021, or that the faults 
had been present at the point of supply. The investigator said he couldnt conclude that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Mrs J didnt agree. She said the fact that the garage had deleted and rebooted software 
each time she had taken the car in was evidence that there were issues with the 
entertainment system which hadnt been resolved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account things such as the 
age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of goods 
includes their general state and condition, and other things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mrs J was brand new, so Id expect it to be of a high quality and to 
remain free from minor defects for a reasonable period of time.
Ive considered all of the available information and Ive thought about whether there was a 
fault with the car which made it of unsatisfactory quality. Mrs J has provided evidence to 
show that in September 2021, there were issues with the entertainment system, the wiper 
motor, the seatbelt and the glove box lid. 
Im satisfied that the evidence shows that there were issues with the car in September 2021. 
However, theres no evidence to show that there were faults with the car prior to this date. 
Mrs J has said that the car was taken into the garage several times for issues with the 
entertainment system. Ive looked at the available job sheets dated June 2019 and 
September 2020. These show that the car was in the garage and that Mrs J had reported an 
issue with the radio volume control and a noise from the engine. However, the job sheets 
dont show what (if any) faults were found or what (if any) repairs were carried out.
Even though I can see that the car has been in the garage, without evidence to show that 
there was a fault with the car which was present or developing at the point of supply, Im 
unable to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Because of 
this, I wont be asking VWFS to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman