DRN-1752300
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy with Bank of Scotland plc's (trading as Halifax) decision to not refund 
transactions she says she didn't make or authorise.
What happened
Miss L got in touch with Halifax to question some transactions on her account that she didn't 
recognise. They took place between 10 April 2019 and 19 June 2019 and were all cash 
machine withdrawals. They varied in amount between £10 and £100 and totalled £450.
Miss L has explained she didn't notice the transactions sooner as she'd not been 
receiving bank statements and was having trouble with her online banking.
Miss L told the bank she hadn't lost her card at all and hadn't ever noticed it missing. She 
said she didn't have a record of her PIN anywhere and the only other person that knew it 
was her partner. She doesn't believe her partner carried out the transactions as he has his 
own money and would always ask if he wanted to use her card.
She believes her card was somehow cloned and that an unknown fraudster has taken her 
money.
The bank said it wouldn't refund Miss L. It didn't think a fraudster had been using a cloned 
card as it could see the genuine one was being used along with Miss L's PIN. It didn't find 
any evidence of an unknown fraudster being in operation.
Miss L was unhappy with the bank's response and so brought the complaint to us. One of 
our investigators upheld it in part. She was persuaded by some of Miss L's version of 
events and didn't think she'd carried out the transactions herself. But our investigator could 
see the genuine card and PIN had been used and there was little explanation for how that 
could have been someone Miss L didn't know. She then felt it was more likely than not 
Miss L's partner had carried out the transactions. He was the only person that knew the PIN 
and would have had access to the card. She noted whoever had carried out the transactions 
would have needed to replace the card without being noticed after each use, which also 
pointed to someone within the household. 
Our investigator said that as Miss L had given the PIN to her partner she'd be responsible for 
the transactions. The only exception would be part of one £100 withdrawal which took the 
account overdrawn. She recommended the bank repay the part that had come out of the 
overdraft plus associated costs, totalling £51.57.
Miss L disagreed and didn't believe anyone close to her was involved. She still believed an 
unknown fraudster had cloned her card somehow. We didn't receive a response from the 
bank. And so the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm upholding this complaint in part and for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. I'll 
explain why.
The relevant regulations here are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) along with 
parts of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Each deal with the liability for transactions 
that take place on a consumer's account.
In brief, the PSRs set out that a consumer will only be responsible for unauthorised 
transactions on their account if they've acted with gross negligence or failed with intent to 
keep their cards, PINs and accounts safe.
The CCA separately says that a consumer will only be responsible for transactions they've 
authorised when credit is involved.
Could this have been an unknown third party?
I'm satisfied this isn't a possibility. There's no reasonable explanation for how such a person 
could have carried out the transactions. I've seen persuasive evidence form the bank that 
the genuine card and PIN were used; there wasn't a cloned card in operation. I can tell this 
because the bank has a record of the chip from the card being read. This service has seen 
no cases where we've been persuaded the chip can be cloned. And so the genuine card 
must have been in use.
The spending on the account supports the case for there being no cloned card in operation. 
Had someone somehow managed to successfully clone the card and obtain the PIN I'd 
expect them to make use of the money available in the account, and quickly. But that didn't 
happen. 
The transactions are spread over a period of months and there isn't a single one for more 
than £100. That's despite much more being available to spend. Anyone in possession of the 
card would have been aware of that through the carrying out of a balance enquiry. 
And so, along with the technical unlikelihood of actually obtaining a cloned card, it appears 
quite clear that isn't what happened based on the transactions that take place.
Who had access to the genuine card?
Whoever carried out the transactions had regular and at least somewhat free access to it. 
Miss L never noticed it missing and it was normally kept in her purse which was in her bag. 
And so someone must have been able to take, use and replace the card with some ease. 
That realistically means it must have been someone from within Miss L's household.
Miss L has told us and the bank that her partner had used the card before and did know the 
PIN. I know she doesn't believe he'd take the card without her permission but there aren't 
many other explanations as to how the transactions could have been made.
Miss L is adamant it wasn't her that made the withdrawals. It's possible she has forgotten, 
but given the consistency of what she's said and some of her comments about CCTV (which 
hasn't been available) I'm minded to agree with the investigator that it's more likely than not she didn't carry out the withdrawals herself. And so I can only conclude it was the only other 
person with knowledge of the PIN and access to the card.
Putting things right
Miss L is responsible for the transactions carried out using the card and PIN where the 
money is her own. That is, where Miss L's overdraft hasn't been used.
Halifax becomes responsible for the amount of the one unauthorised transaction that 
involved credit, in the form of the overdraft usage. And so it should refund £51.27 to Miss L, 
plus any associated fees and interest.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc and direct it to pay Miss L £51.27 plus 
any associated fees and interest.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Ben Murray
Ombudsman