DRN-2193914
The complaint
Miss F and Miss F complain that Aviva Insurance Services UK Limited (Aviva) has unfairly
declined a claim they made on their residential property owners insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 21 August 2020 detailing my intention to not uphold Miss F 
and Miss Fs complaint.
Neither party has replied to that decision so, Im now able to issue my final decision.
I set out what happened as follows:
In March 2019, Miss F and Miss F made a claim when part of a retaining wall in the garden
collapsed. This was following some bad weather which they believe caused a landslip at the
rear of the property therefore damaging the wall.
Aviva has said it initially considered the claim under the insured storm peril as Miss F and
Miss F had advised it there had been several days of heavy rain. But said for it to consider it
under storm it would have to be a one-off event and as it had rained over several days it said
it was not covered under the policy. It then considered the damage under landslip cover as
requested by the policyholders, but also declined it on an exclusion. The exclusion it used
was that the main home must be damaged in order for it to accept a claim. Aviva said at that
time there was no damage to the home. So, it declined the claim.
In May 2019 I can see the policyholders insurer broker contacted Aviva regarding the claim.
Aviva explained to the broker the claim was declined due to gradual deterioration following
its review of the surveyors report and the follow up questions that it had asked of the
surveyor.
Miss F and Miss F were unhappy with the responses they had received and brought their
complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the evidence showed that when the soil was
removed there was damage to the property itself, consisting of damage to the flue cover. So,
he felt the exclusion Aviva had relied on in its final response letter (FRL) wasnt fair and it
should reconsider the claim.
Aviva didnt agree, saying there was no evidence the wall collapsed due to a landslip, nor
was there any outside force to cause a landslip. It said the wall collapsed due to
maintenance or age and allowed the soil behind it to fall. So, it asked for the case to be
reviewed by an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Ive looked at the surveyors report and photographs provided, and theres no dispute that a
part of the retaining wall has collapsed and the earth behind it has fallen. But when I
consider a complaint, the first thing I must ask is whether the damage claimed for is covered
by an insured peril under the policy. Insured perils are things such as storm damage, escape
of water, fire and others If the damage or loss was covered, Id then need to consider
whether Aviva had fairly applied its terms and exclusions when considering the claim.
The only technical report Ive been provided with is from the surveyor that attended the
property on 26 March 2019. Aviva also asked the surveyor some follow up questions,
following the report. In summary the surveyor said the remaining parts of the wall showed no
signs of major defects and appeared in reasonable condition for its age (the wall was likely
to have been built the same time as the cottage). It was unable to tell if the wall had rotated
and collapsed, effectively fallen forwards, or whether it had collapsed due to horizontal
stresses, effectively bulged out and failed, due to it being buried under the soil.
However, from the description supplied by the insured  that a crack had appeared across
the bottom of the wall a couple of days before it collapsed  it said this indicated the wall had
bulged outward due to the pressure of the soil behind the wall.
The surveyor also noted that there was no evidence of ground movement, cracking or
opening up of the ground. It also said the garden above the area that collapsed seemed to
be cupped, probably due to the soil becoming more compacted in that location but this
wouldve happened over a long period of time and this could be attributable to the additional
loading on the retainable wall. The surveyor said in the absence of a specific event, the only
reasonable conclusion is that stresses within the wall have built up over time until reaching
breaking point.
Having reviewed the report and follow up questions, and in the absence of any other
technical report, Im persuaded that the wall collapsed due to gradual deterioration. Im not
convinced that the wall has collapsed because of any one, or combination, of the specified
events and the damage is therefore not covered as there is no evidence of an insured peril.
Aviva also considered whether the claim could be accepted under the storm and accidental
damage parts of the policy. Miss F and Miss F havent disputed that cover doesnt apply
under these parts of the policy, and instead have said it should cover the claim under the
subsidence section that covers landslip.
In any case, I have considered these parts of the policy and Im in agreement that the claim
doesnt fall under these. I say this as there has been no evidence of a one-off storm event
and landslip hasnt been determined by the surveyor and Ive seen no other evidence to
suggest this is the cause.
Ive also noted that both accidental damage and landslip parts of the policy exclude gradual
deterioration  which it seems is what the cause of the damage is. So even if Miss F and
Miss F could demonstrate that the damage was caused by either a landslip or accidental
damage, it seems Aviva wouldve declined the claim fairly, in line with its policy terms.
Ive also seen Aviva relied on a separate exclusion relating to damage to the home when
declining this claim in relation to landslip. And although for the reasons Ive given Im
satisfied Aviva has declined the claim fairly, for completeness Ive also considered it.Miss F and Miss Fs policy outlined under section 13 Subsidence:
13.1 We will cover You for Damage at Your Premises caused by subsidence or ground
heave of the site of the Property Insured or landslip.
13.2 We will only pay for Damage to the following items if Damage also occurs to the
building to which such property applies and that building is insured by this Section:.
13.2.2 walls, gates hedges or fences
At the time Aviva wasnt aware that damage had occurred to the soil pipe, as the fallen soil
hadnt been removed. So, I dont think Aviva has unfairly applied the exclusion.
Im sympathetic to Miss F and Miss Fs situation but from the evidence provided Im satisfied
Aviva has fairly declined cover it seems no insured event has occurred. If Miss F and Miss F
can provide Aviva with a technical report to show an insured event has occurred, taking into
account what Ive outlined above, Id expect Aviva to reconsider the claim.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And as no further comments were 
received from the parties, Im satisfied that my provisional decision represents an outcome 
thats fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Miss F 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman