DRN-2103512
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P bought a monthly premium PPI policy in 1998 to protect their mortgage 
repayments. The sale took place in a branch at the same time as they applied for their 
mortgage. The policy was in Mr Ps sole name and gave him protection against accident, 
sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for the PPI until they cancelled 
the policy in March 1999.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs P had to agree to take it 
out. Mr and Mrs P say they were not made aware of the PPI, and whilst Mr P may have 
signed for it, they werent told about the benefits. If theyd been aware they had PPI, Mr P 
would have used it in 2004 when he was made redundant. 
I cant know what was said in the meeting, or how the PPI was presented to them, but I have 
looked at the available paperwork. Mr and Mrs P indicated that they wanted PPI on their 
mortgage application form, Mr P signed separately to confirm this, and he also signed a 
separate PPI application form, answering a number of eligibility questions. By 2004 they had 
cancelled their policy so couldnt have used it  the bank has sent a copy of a letter from 
Mr P requesting the policy be cancelled at the end of March 1999. And the banks systems 
show this happened the following week.
So overall, I think its most likely Halifax make it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs P 
chose to take it out for Mr P.
Halifax recommended the policy for Mr P to Mr and Mrs P, so it had to check it was suitable 
for him. But Ive looked at his circumstances at the time and I think it was right for him. I say 
this because:
Mr P met the policy requirements, so he was eligible for the cover.
On the banks PPI questionnaire Mr P said his sick pay was unknown; on our PPI 
questionnaire he said his entitlement was at least 12 months pay. Because of this 
inconsistency we asked for more information, but nothing was provided. I do note his 
employer is no longer trading and I understand the sale was long time ago. But this 
means I dont have strong enough evidence to conclude that Mr Ps work benefits 
were such that he didnt need PPI. It wouldve paid out in addition to any work 
benefits for up to 12 months for each successful accident and sickness claim. It also 
offered up to 12 months unemployment cover. 
Mr P also told us they had savings worth 12 months salary but told the bank the 
value was unknown. Again, we asked for more information, but nothing was 
provided. I note from their mortgage application they had around £7000 of unsecured 
debt at this time so I cant fairly conclude they had sufficient available assets not to 
need PPI. And the PPI would have allowed them to use any savings to cover other 
living expenses whilst Mr P wasnt working, or to keep them intact for their future 
needs. So as they had a long-term debt secured against their home, and given the 
serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, based on the available 
evidence I think the PPI couldve been useful for them if Mr P was sick or lost his job.
It seems there wasnt anything in the PPI that would make it difficult for Mr P to claim. 
He wouldnt have been affected by the main exclusions or limitations.
Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable and it was competitively 
priced.
Halifax also had to give Mr and Mrs P information that was clear, fair and not misleading so 
that they could make an informed choice about the policy. They say they were not told about 
it. I agree its possible they didnt have everything they needed. But for much the same 
reasons that I found the policy was suitable, I dont think Mr and Mrs P wouldve decided not 
to take out this policy for Mr P if better information had been provided. Mr P was eligible, it 
seems the PPI was affordable, it was competitively priced, and he wasnt affected by any of 
the major exclusions or limitations. So I dont think better information wouldve changed their 
decision.
But Halifax will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs P, that was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
It has also offered £150 to compensate Mr and Mrs P for the trouble and upset caused by 
how it handled their complaint at the start of its investigation. I have thought about the likely 
impact on Mr and Mrs P of the banks errors and find this to be fair and reasonable. 
What the business needs to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr and Mrs P any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should also pay back to Mr and Mrs P any extra 
interest they paid because of that.Halifax should pay back to Mr and Mrs P the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax should also 
pay Mr and Mrs P 8%* simple interest on each payment. Mr and Mrs Ps representative has 
said that the interest should be compound, but the banks offer is in line with our redress 
guidance, so I am not instructing Halifax to change its calculation.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs P can claim back the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) must now pay back to Mr and Mrs P any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, in addition 
to the £150 payment as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman