DRN-3376297
The complaint
Mr C has complained that he had difficulty in making a claim on a gadget insurance 
policy that Barclays UK PLC sold him as part of a package of benefits called a Tech 
Pack, which was linked to his bank account. 
Barclays did not provide or manage the gadget insurance policy itself. It used a third-party 
company (the insurer) to do this on its behalf. Mr C made his claim against the insurer but 
doesnt think it handled his claim effectively. Mr C thinks Barclays misled him about the 
policy and wants it to compensate him. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Cs complaint and didnt think that 
Barclays had done anything significantly wrong. The adjudicator didnt recommend that 
Barclays should pay Mr C any compensation. Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his case. So, it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Cs case. 
Ive looked into everything that Mr C and Barclays have told us or sent us about the 
complaint, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr C has been very precise about the reason for his complaint. Hes said that when he 
contacted the insurer it told him that it had taken over the service from a previous company 
and had no details of any of his registered gadgets. It said that he would have to register 
them again on a new software application, log a complaint and then wait eight weeks. 
Mr C has said that the insurers service was not satisfactory and that in effect he was paying 
(Barclays) for cover that did not exist.
Firstly, I would like to confirm that at the time Mr C made his claim, Barclays had recently 
changed the insurer it used. Barclays was allowed to do this, but if the change was likely to 
have affected the nature of the cover provided to Mr C, I would have expected it to tell him 
what was happening and give him reasonable options if he wasnt happy with its plans. 
Barclays has accepted that it was changing some aspects of the cover. It has sent us a copy 
of a letter it says it sent to Mr C in February 2021. The title of the letter was Your Tech Pack 
is changing. The letter described the changes Barclays was planning, including naming the 
new insurer. It also explained how Mr C could cancel the Tech Pack if he wished. I think this 
letter met Barclays obligation to tell Mr C what was happening and give him choices.
The letter went on to say that Any devices (Mr C had already) registered (would still) be 
covered and described how he could make a claim. When Mr C made his claim, I 
understand that he was doing so for a device he had already registered. So, the experience 
he has described seems to fall short of that which Barclays led him to expect in its letter. 
In the course of this complaint, Barclays has accepted that the change of insurer did not go 
smoothly. I have seen a copy of a letter it says it wrote to Mr C in July 2021 which said it 
agreed the service has not been the best since the change. It offered Mr C £50 as an 
apology for his inconvenience. Despite Mr Cs difficulties with his claim, Im satisfied that the 
insurance did exist, and I havent seen anything to make me think Barclays misled him about 
it in any other way. I think Barclays offer of £50 was reasonable. 
Mr C has told us that he hasnt received some of the letters Barclays says it sent to him, 
including the one with the offer of £50. The letters seem to have been correctly addressed 
and Im satisfied Barclays sent them, so Im not sure what happened to them. However, 
Barclays has told us that its offer of £50 is still available. Should Mr C wish to accept it, 
which is entirely a matter for him, then he may contact Barclays directly or make 
arrangements through us. I will not be telling Barclays to pay Mr C anything further. I believe 
it has behaved fairly. 
Turning to Mr Cs original insurance claim. He told us a few months ago that he had received 
zero correspondence about it. I do not know if this has since changed, but I would like to 
point out that if he wants to, he is totally free to continue his claim with the insurer, 
separately from this complaint about Barclays. This is the most appropriate route for the 
claim. 
If Mr C wishes, he may also raise a separate complaint against the insurer. If he does so and 
is unhappy with its response, he may be able to bring his complaint to us. But at this stage, I 
cant tell if any such complaint would fall inside or outside the rules and time limits that 
determine which complaints we can handle or speculate on what the outcome may be.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint about Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman