DRN-2980329
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs F, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs F acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs F. The car here was about 
four years old and had already completed about 44,447 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear.
Mrs F returned the car to the dealership a couple of months after it was supplied to her. The 
airbag was repaired, and a wheel bearing was replaced as there was noise through the 
steering and wheels.
A couple of months later after Mrs F had completed over 3,300 further miles, the car was 
returned because there was a grinding noise from the wheels. The dealership noted that the 
front wheels were buckled. 
VWFS arent responsible for all the faults that occur on the car. They are only responsible for 
faults that were present or developing when the car was supplied. Im not persuaded that its 
likely the wheels were buckled on this car when it was supplied because:
I dont think Mrs F would have been able to drive a further 3,300 miles if they were;
I dont think its likely the car would have passed an MOT if they were;
there was a major service completed pre supply and that included an inspection of 
the brakes. I think if there was buckling of the wheels at that point it would have been 
evident during this service. 
Mrs F has disputed the quality of the MOT, but I think its feasible that the airbag problem 
wouldnt have been identified and that any wheel bearing issue could have developed 
subsequently. So, I dont think I have evidence that the MOT was inadequate.
Whilst I understand that will be upsetting news for Mrs F Im afraid I dont think I have 
sufficient evidence to suggest the wheels on the car were buckled when it was supplied to 
her, and Im not asking VWFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman