DRN-3194262
The complaint
Ms J complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wrongly passed 
her details to two debt collection agencies. She says she doesnt owe any money.
What happened
Ms J obtained a car using a hire agreement with VWFS in June 2019. She terminated the 
agreement early and VWFS told her she needed to pay £398.87. Having paid this amount, 
Ms J received letters from two debt collection agencies telling her she still owed VWFS 
£362.62.
VWFS said this was a mistake and that Ms J did not owe anything.
Our investigator thought VWFS should pay Ms J £150 for the distress and inconvenience it 
had caused her. And that it should remove any adverse information recorded on her credit 
file.
VWFS agreed.
Ms J didnt agree. She said shes worried about what personal information has been shared 
and that the whole situation has been very stressful. She thinks VWFS should pay her at 
least £400.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator for the 
following reasons:
When Ms J paid the early termination payment of £398.87, VWFS has confirmed she did not 
owe it anything further. It wrongly recorded that she owed one months payment. And, when 
this wasnt paid, it passed the debt to two debt collection agencies.
I fully understand it would have been upsetting for Ms J to receive letters from the debt 
collection agencies. And its disappointing that VWFS did not respond to her complaint in 
July 2021 which may have resolved matters without the need for Ms J to refer to us.
Under the terms of the hire agreement, VWFS was able to share Ms Js details with debt 
collection agencies, but it should only have done this if Ms J was in arrears. Its confirmed 
she didnt owe anything.
Ms J should be compensated for VWFSs mistake. Whilst she didnt make a financial loss 
because of the mistake, she has experienced distress and inconvenience. Ive considered 
this very carefully, but I agree with our investigator that £150 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I appreciate this is less than Ms J thinks she deserves. But Ive taken into 
account that there was no financial loss as a result of the mistake, and the contact from the 
debt collection agencies was limited  Ms J didnt receive any phone calls or messages, or 
multiple letters, from the debt collection agencies.
It's not clear whether VWFS recorded a missed payment on Ms Js credit file. It must ensure 
any adverse information about the account is removed from her credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should:
1. Pay Ms J £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
2. Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Js credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman