DRN-3724214
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as IC, complains DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited has turned down a claim it made under a legal expenses policy. 
Mr B brings the complaint on behalf of IC.
What happened
IC asked a web design company (W) to create an online presence and sales platform for 
the business. However, a fully working website was never completed and W asked IC for 
further money to aid its completion. 
IC made a claim to DAS for assistance with legal costs to pursue a contractual dispute claim 
against W. DAS declined the claim, after consulting with a panel solicitor. It said that while 
there was an established contractual dispute, there was an exclusion in the policy which 
meant it wouldnt offer cover for disputes concerning computer services designed to a 
specification. 
Mr B disagreed that hed provided a design specification to W. He pointed out he wasnt 
technically minded and that is why hed engaged W to design and build the website. DAS 
considered Mr Bs points but maintained the decline of claim was correct. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and he explained to Mr B that he thought DAS had 
acted fairly and reasonably. A specification was given to W as to what the website should 
include and therefore, he thought the exclusion had been fairly applied by DAS. 
Mr B asked for ICs complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In doing so he reiterated 
he did not have the technical knowledge to design a website and therefore it couldnt have 
been built to his detailed specification, as he didnt have the knowledge to provide one. Mr B 
also questioned the intention of the specific wording used in the exclusion and whether 
computer services meant web design as it isnt a service for a computer itself. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure him Ive 
read and considered carefully everything hes said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by IC, and by DAS, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based 
on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
DAS asked a panel solicitor to review the contract Mr B had entered into with W on 
behalf of IC. As it concluded, should the contract simply be for an off the shelf web 
product which ICs items are simply loaded to for sale then the policy cover could 
potentially engage. However, the panel solicitor concluded the contract was for a 
bespoke website to be designed for ICs business. 
DAS arent legal experts and therefore I think it was reasonable for it to consult the 
panel solicitors for its opinion on the nature of the contract entered. I also think it was 
reasonable for it to take into account the opinion it was given when decided whether 
ICs claim was covered under the policy terms. 
The exclusion DAS has relied upon, specifies that a dispute which arises out of the 
purchase or hire of computer hardware, software, systems or services tailored by a 
supplier to Your own specification will not be covered.
I accept Mr B himself may not have technical expertise, and I can appreciate why he 
therefore engaged W. However, I think there is a misunderstanding here about the 
term your specification.  This policy is one that covers IC, so, by my reading, the 
phrase your is intended to mean for ICs specification i.e. specifically designed to 
reflect ICs business and the products it offers. It is not intending to suggest Mr B 
himself gave detailed design instructions to W. So, Im satisfied, based on the 
evidence provided, that the contract was a website tailored to suit ICs business and 
as such, I think DAS has applied the exclusion fairly. 
Ive considered Mr Bs point about the term computer service, however on a fair and 
reasonable basis I do think this is intended to include web design. It is a service to a 
business that is accessed through a computer. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold ICs complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask IC to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman