DRN-3915338
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Halifax has only offered to refund her partially, after she was the 
victim of a romance scam.
Mrs A has used a claims management company to bring her complaint to us. Ill refer to 
them as R.
What happened
Mrs A started a relationship with someone she met online. She didnt meet the person, but 
they exchanged text messages and spoke on the phone for several weeks. He then asked 
for money. 
Mrs A has provided a detailed history of the events about the conversations they had and 
the varying reasons he gave for needing money. I wont repeat all the detail here as all 
parties are aware of how events unfolded and what Mrs A says this person told her
Mrs A sent payments totalling £10,200 from her Halifax account to this person, thinking he 
needed it for various reasons. She says she stopped sending money and later realised she 
had been scammed and reported it to her bank. 
Halifax reviewed Mrs As complaint. It offered to refund 50% of her losses (from the second 
transaction onwards) totalling £4,100, plus interest, and £50 in compensation.  It said despite 
the transactions taking place before Halifax was signed up the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) it had considered the complaint in line with code guidelines.
It said it didnt think Mrs A had a reasonable basis for believing that the person she was 
speaking to was being detained overseas and pursued by foreign security forces. And given 
the severity of the claims he was making it wouldnt be unreasonable to contact an embassy 
or the UN for assistance rather than send thousands of pounds to someone she hadnt ever 
met. And it said it seemed unusual for this person to have given Mrs A access to his Swiss 
bank account. 
It considered what Mrs A had said about her neurodiverse condition but also noted that she 
had been able to question this person when they continually asked for money and decided to 
stop making payments when she felt something wasnt right.
It went on to say it didnt think the first payment was unusual enough that it ought to have 
considered that she was at risk. But it said the frequency and amounts of the subsequent 
payments were out of character for Mrs A and warranted a bank check which is why the 
refund it offered covered all but the first transaction.
And Mrs A didnt inform Halifax about the scam until three years later, so it was unable to 
attempt to recover her funds at the time. And given the passage of time its unlikely that any 
funds remained.
Unhappy with this outcome Mrs A brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators has looked into things she said she thought the 50% refund (excluding the first 
payment Mrs A made) from Halifax was fair. 
- She didnt think Halifax needed to consider refunding the first payment as it wasnt 
large in value and therefore wasnt a payment that Halifax ought reasonably to have 
intervened with.
- She considered Mrs As neurodiverse condition but also said Mrs A had shown some 
concerns about the person she thought she was speaking to and she carried out 
some checks on them.
- She thought Mrs A should bear some responsibility for her losses. She was warned 
by a relative that it sounded like a scam. And there were several red flags about what 
she was being told:
o the person she was speaking to had a completely different accent to where 
he said he was from. 
oWhat he was saying about his own bank account being blocked and needing 
to go to the bank in Switzerland to resolve it, didnt sound plausible. 
oHe didnt want her to visit him at his home address.
oThe reasons for needing money, in connection to who he said he was working 
for, didnt sound plausible.
oShe had only been speaking to him for a short period of time before he 
started asking for money.
Mrs A initially accepted this over the phone when speaking to our investigator, but Mrs As 
representatives (R) asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. In 
summary they said:
- Mrs As neurodiverse condition meant her ability to judge situations and make 
decision is impacted  making her vulnerable. 
- She did attempt to protect herself by making checks on the person she thought she 
was speaking to. 
- She wasnt given any warnings by the bank, which would have had a strong impact 
on her judgement and avoided her loosing the money.
R asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Since then, I have discussed 
the complaint with R on a number of occasions and considered Mrs As neurodiverse 
condition in more detail. I have said:
- There are a number of factors about what Mrs A has told us and the actions she took 
during the scam that led me to believe she was able to protect herself from this 
scam.  
- That I had no doubt of Mrs As condition and her vulnerability but that in itself didnt 
mean she is entitled to a full refund. 
- I had considered Mrs As own testimony, in her own words, when bringing the 
complaint to our service and that was contemporaneous evidence in a case like this. 
In doing so, whilst I have no doubt, she was duped by this scammer, as many people 
are by these sorts of scams, Mrs A doesnt meet the definition given in the CRM code 
that says it would not be reasonable to expect that Customer to have protected 
themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, against that particular 
APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered.
- Mrs A was able to stop sending money to the scammer when she identified it was a 
scam. 
- Mrs As representatives say that if an effective warning had been provided it is highly likely it would have been successful. This satisfied me that Mrs A wasnt vulnerable 
to the point that she couldnt have reasonably been expected to protect herself. 
R disagreed and sought to provide medical confirmation of her neurodiverse condition. I 
explained I didnt need confirmation of her diagnosis, but I had carefully considered the 
contemporaneous evidence about what Mrs A had told us in her own words about the scam, 
what the scammer told her, and how she recalled this and behaved in response to this. This 
in my opinion is far more reliable and fair analysis of the scam and Mrs A's personal 
circumstances. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by the investigator or informally, I have gone on to 
consider the complaint for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence again Im not recommending that Halifax refund 
anything further to Mrs A. Im of the opinion that its offer to consider the complaint under the 
CRM and refund 50% of her losses from the second transaction onwards is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Halifaxs consideration of the transactions 
Halifax considered Mrs As complaint in light of the CRM, despite the transactions occurring 
before the CRM was implemented. Having done so, it didnt consider the first payment that 
she made as being one that it ought to have considered as an APP scam risk- which is why 
it was excluded from its refund offer. And I agree. Although the payment is higher than Mrs A 
usually made on her account, it isnt significantly high and although it was made to a new 
payee it was to a UK based account. So overall I dont think it was unfair of Halifax to say 
this payment didnt represent an APP scam risk. 
Halifax says it ought to have considered the payments after this as APP scam risk and taken 
appropriate action. As this wasnt done it has considered what the CRM says about firm 
standards and as a result offered to pay 50% of Mrs As losses. 
Did Mrs A have a reasonable basis of belief
I agree with the investigator that Halifax is entitled to rely on the exception not to refund Mrs 
As losses in full. Because she made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing 
that the payments were for genuine goods or services and the person to whom she was 
sending money was legitimate. 
I agree with the reasoning set out by the investigator in her view, which I have included in 
the background to this complaint. I wont repeat everything here, but overall I think there 
were enough unusual and suspicious elements to what she was being told that ought to 
have concerned Mrs A that she wasnt sending money for legitimate purposes. 
Should Mrs A receive a full refund under the vulnerability section of the CRM?
As I have set out, I have corresponded with R about this in detail and at length. I have very 
carefully considered Mrs As neurodiverse condition but more importantly I have considered 
Mrs As conversations with our investigator about how all the events unfolded. Having done 
so, I remain of the opinion that Mrs A was unfortunately duped by this scammer, but I dont 
think she was vulnerable as set out under the CRM the code. 
I dont think it would be fair for Halifax to provide Mrs A with a full refund in these 
circumstances. 
My final decision
I think the offer from Halifax is fair and I dont recommend any further refund is paid to Mrs A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman