DRN-2927936
The complaint
Mr E complains that IG Markets Limited (referred to as IG) have been making unauthorised 
deductions from his account without agreement, notification or explanation. He believes that 
IG have been stealing money from his account.  
Mr E also complains that IG have been holding on to his dividends for extended periods of 
time, causing a loss and preventing him from re-investing. 
In the circumstances, Mr E doesnt think IGs offer to pay compensation as a gesture of 
goodwill is enough. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In her 
view, she explained: 
Based on what IG says, money has been withdrawn and placed back due to dividend 
reclassification. This happens when a customer purchases shares in a company  
the Mutual Fund Company (MFC)  and the MFC changes the share class. 
A reclassification can involve changing the payment type or the amount of tax 
withheld. This means Mr Es shares could change share class after purchase, 
meaning the tax would need to be recalculated. 
The tax treatment of dividends is covered by the Customer Agreement.
Although Mr E feels IG are acting illegally, its a normal market event, albeit more 
common with US shares.
Dividend reclassifications are a market event instigated and managed by the 
company invested in. As the custodian, IG are only made aware after the dividend 
has been paid to a customer  it wont receive any official confirmation before this. 
Once IG are aware of the reclassification, dividends are removed from the account 
and redeposited back, usually through a bulk adjustment. 
Whilst Mr E is worried about this, based on what IG say, it didnt impact Mr Es 
shareholdings  only the amount of tax applied to the dividends. It happens when the 
MFC changes the share price  whenever that may be  it doesnt just occur at the 
end of the year as Mr E thought. 
The Customer Agreement explains how changes with the MFC will affect Mr Es 
investment. In this instance, shes satisfied that IG made the adjustments in a fair 
and balanced way in line with the terms and conditions.  
Smaller dividend payments will have been taken  due to exchange rate and foreign 
exchange rate (FX). In other words, if Mr E bought foreign investments, these will 
have been subject to exchange rate  which also incurs a 0.5% currency conversion 
fee  which is also made clear by Customer Agreement. 
As a gesture of goodwill, IG offered Mr E £132 for the difference in exchange rate. It 
used £3.30 that was calculated for one of the reclassifications and applied it to the 40 
dividend transactions  where they were reduced both by dividend reclassification 
and FX difference and charge. Its not typical for a business to offer this kind of 
refund because its a normal market event.  
In terms of account statements, shes satisfied that the process of reclassifications 
and FX difference are legitimate, and IG has administered the account correctly with 
regards to this. 
Whilst Mr E doesnt feel IGs response fully addressed the issue about readjusted 
dividends, having analysed the spreadsheet (created by him) against IGs ledger for 
his account showing all dividend adjustments, she is satisfied IG have everything 
accounted for. 
The dividends recorded in Mr Es spreadsheet have gone back into his account after 
being classified. She appreciates why Mr E mightve thought that IG was stealing 
money, because sometimes the initial dividend payment he received was higher 
before the reclassification. So, when the reclassification occurred, and the share 
class of the dividend changed, Mr E was sometimes charged more tax, making the 
dividend lower when he received it. 
Looking at the movements on Mr Es account, shes satisfied that these are due to 
reclassification or FX trading, which shes explained is a normal market event. Given 
the explanation above, theres nothing more to warrant an audit of his accounts. 
Shes unable to say that delayed dividend payments are due to IG. According to what 
IG says, these are credited when they are actioned by the custodians and 
occasionally payments can be made late from the brokers causing them to be 
credited later than the payment date to IG clients. This isnt something IG has control 
over. 
The Customer Agreement explains that IG administered Mr Es investments and 
theyre only able to act through execution when they receive instructions from the 
custodian. In the circumstances she cant say the delays experienced were due to 
IG.   
Given that IG havent behaved unreasonably, she cant say it failed in its duty 
towards Mr E. On the contrary, shes satisfied that it behaved in accordance with its 
terms and conditions. 
Overall, she thought the compensation offered by the business  namely the £132 
and £300  was fair and reasonable. 
Mr E disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
Even a cursory google search would demonstrate that IG were talking nonsense. 
If the explanation for the deductions that he complained about were due to 
companies changing their share class, this information would be set out on the 
company websites, but its not.   
The deductions have nothing to do with reclassifications and the investigator hasnt 
received any evidence to support her assertions. Shes simply accepted what the 
business says because she doesnt understand whats going on and cant be 
bothered to find out. 
Hes disappointed with the superficiality of the investigators view and her 
condescending tone. Shes assumed he knows nothing about the investments.
He has shares with various companies and none of them have engaged in this sort of 
practice.   
Hes asked a series of questions that hed like answered such as:
oWhat his original classifications were and what they were changed to?
oWhy were his dividends delayed, sometimes up to a month after the company 
had paid them? And why he was only paid after he sent several emails 
chasing them?
oWhy none of the other execution only brokers suffer from dividend 
reclassifications. The investigator having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. She explained that Mr E could view historic share values on custodian websites but 
not reclassification reports in the same way. IG has shown her examples of reports it has 
received from custodians on reclassifications. Shes unable to send Mr E copies of these 
reports because it contains confidential information from the custodian. Just because Mr Es 
experience of other companies is different, doesnt mean that IG has done anything wrong. 
Based on the evidence provided by IG, shes unable to say that it behaved unreasonably 
with regards to the movement of money in Mr Es account. 
Mr E disagreed with the investigators response and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, he said:
The investigators latest view was worse than the first.
The investigator just accepted whats been said by IG and couldnt be bothered to 
look on the company websites for information which is freely available. 
He wants to know where the daily monthly withdrawals stem from in respect of the 
companies that hes invested in? 
These arent custodian websites, these are websites for the companies. A retail 
customer wouldnt have access to the brokers custodian or website. 
IG is the broker, the distributions are paid to their custodian on the due date by the 
companies that he invested in, its then IGs responsibility to remit the distributions to 
his account in a timely manner  this is what wasnt done. 
Given electronic methods of communication, the delays are inexcusable. And it 
certainly doesnt take up to a month in some cases to credit his account. 
The custodian is a servant of IG therefore IG is responsible for the actions of its 
custodian. 
The spreadsheet the investigator has, shows lots of withdrawals, but Mr E doesnt 
believe theres reconciliation between the figures taken out and received. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr E says, Im unable to safely 
say that IG have behaved unreasonably such that the complaint should be upheld.  I also 
think the redress offered by IG is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Es strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions 
to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr E and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im persuaded by the explanation offered by IG 
as to why Mr E received smaller dividend payments than he was expecting, and why in 
some instances it was paid later than he was expecting  neither of which Im able to safely 
blame the business for. 
It seems to me that moneys been withdrawn and placed back, in the main due to dividend 
reclassification  where the MFC changes the share class  which can involve changing the 
payment type or the amount of tax withheld, resulting in Mr E receiving a different amount of 
money to what he mightve expected. I understand that this is a normal market event, even if 
it isnt as common/non-existent with Mr Es other invested companies  Im mindful that its 
more common with US shares which is what this issue mainly relates to  doesnt mean IG 
has done something wrong.   
Mr E says hes complaining about the monthly credits and debits shown on his accounts, but 
the reasons given above concerning dividend reclassification broadly explain why hes 
seeing the movements that he is. 
I note Mr E says that if the explanation for the deductions that he complained about were 
due to companies changing their share class, this information would be set out on the 
company websites. But even if this information wasnt set out  on each of the company 
websites  it doesnt automatically mean the investigators view  based on his submissions 
and evidence provided by the business  is untrue or inaccurate. 
Aside from being unhappy with the investigators view Mr E hasnt provided any evidence to 
the contrary. It seems to me why a business might or might not choose to share this 
information is a matter for the individual business based on commercial sensitivity, and its 
not something our service would get involved in. 
I note Mr E suggests that the investigator hasnt based her conclusions  regarding the 
deductions and classification  based on evidence, but I dont think thats correct given that 
her view is based on the available information, and not assertions of her own making. In any 
event, despite what Mr E says, hes not submitted any material evidence that persuades me 
to disagree with the investigator.
Im mindful that when Mr E previously rejected the businesss response and offer, he said its 
explanation was contradictory and illogical. So, in the circumstances of the investigator trying 
to explain things differently (in her views) doesnt mean that shes assumed that Mr E didnt 
have any knowledge of these affairs. Im mindful the investigator has already apologised for 
causing Mr E any upset.  
Given that all the pertinent points that could be made have been made by Mr E, I dont 
propose to repeat what he or the investigator has said. In the circumstances I think its only 
sensible to go through the key points that Mr E remains unhappy about.  
Im aware Mr E says that the distributions are supposed to be paid to their custodian on the 
due date by the companies that hes invested in, but I also note that it doesnt always 
happen this way. So, whilst IG might be responsible for remitting the distributions to Mr Es 
account in a timely manner, the timing of the overall process isnt solely down to IG, even 
though its  at the end of the process  responsible for making payment to him. IG is 
dependent on another business also playing their part in a timely manner.  Despite the electronic methods of communication that Mr E refers to  which I dont believe 
is the reason for the monies not being paid in line with his expectations  IG evidently 
doesnt have overall control or monopoly over the whole payment process. In the 
circumstances, I cant blame IG for the actions of third-party businesses. 
I note the business says:
dividends are credited when they are actioned by our custodians. If the payment is made 
late from the brokers then they are unfortunately credited later than the payment date to IG 
clients.
It would seem that for matters outside of IGs control, it can take time to credit Mr Es 
account  but I cant blame IG for this. Im aware Mr E says that the custodian is a servant of 
IG, therefore IG is responsible for the actions of its custodian. Whilst I can see where Mr E is 
coming from, whether (or not) the statement is accurate I dont agree with his conclusion. I 
dont think IG is responsible for the actions of any other business, let alone a third-party 
which is a separate financial business. Like the investigator, I think IG can only pay Mr E 
when it has received the funds and outstanding matters have been settled. I dont agree with 
Mr E that IG was deliberately and without authority holding on to money and not paying him.  
I note the investigator explained that theres no evidence that payments were taken illegally, 
and on balance I agree with that conclusion. Despite what Mr E says about IG stealing his 
money, Ive seen nothing to suggest that this was the case. 
In the circumstances, I cant say that IG has made unauthorised withdrawals although I must 
accept by the very nature of this complaint that Mr E didnt know what was happening at the 
time, and unfortunately concluded that he was the victim of a crime. Ive not seen any 
evidence that persuades me this was the case. 
I appreciate why Mr E feels like IG are treating his ISA account as its own, but for the 
reasons set out by the investigator  including why shes unable to provide a more detailed 
response due to the sensitive nature of the information from the business containing details 
of IGs custodian  Im satisfied that the business isnt behaving contrary to its terms and 
conditions which Mr E will have agreed to at the outset. 
I note that Mr E was also previously unhappy that IG didnt refer to his spreadsheet, but Im 
aware that the investigator has, and has analysed it in forming her view. Having considered 
her conclusion, Im satisfied that her view is reasonable and based on the evidence 
presented. Whilst I appreciate that Mr E will disagree with this, I dont think her conclusions 
are unreasonable.
I appreciate Mr Es other points, post view, regarding the spreadsheet and reconciliation, but 
Im persuaded by IGs explanation about what has happened. In the circumstances, I dont 
think its necessary to go through every single transaction, and the business has undertaken 
to look at any specific transaction that Mr E is still concerned about, over and beyond the 
ones it has already considered.  
I note IG offered Mr E £132 for the difference in exchange rate. It used £3.30 that was 
calculated for one of the reclassifications and applied  as an average  to the 40 dividend 
transactions  where they were reduced both by dividend reclassification and FX difference 
and charge. I understand that this was done purely on a goodwill basis - even though Mr E 
will have benefitted in some of the cases  and isnt a typical offer. In the circumstances I 
dont think its goodwill gesture is unreasonable. I note IG accepts that its procedure isnt clear and its something it is looking to improve in 
the future, so that the process between its corporate action team and broker is clearer.  
IG has also offered to pay Mr E £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused and for the handling of his complaint which Im aware Mr E is extremely unhappy 
about.  
For the reasons set out above, I think IGs overall offer to pay Mr E £300 compensation, in 
addition to the £132, is broadly fair and reasonable. Even though Mr E remains unhappy with 
the offer  he doesnt accept its fair and reasonable  and Im not upholding the complaint, I 
would still expect the business to honour its offer. 
I appreciate Mr E will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask IG to do anything, 
beyond what it has offered. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr E what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman