DRN-4271863
The complaint
Mr L complains Nationwide Building Society (NBS) failed to treat him fairly when he 
approached it to claim a refund of money hed paid for accommodation in Spain, and 
discussed his personal/financial matters with his mother without his permission.
Mr L is represented in his complaint by his mother, who I will call M.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ls complaint on 7 July 2023 in which I set out the 
background, but in summary:
Mr L booked accommodation at a hostel in a Spanish city for a stay in late March 
2022. He used his NBS debit card to pay for the accommodation over two 
transactions on 9 March 2022.
Mr L was disappointed with the accommodation for a variety of reasons. He stayed at 
the hostel for the duration of the stay as there was a lack of available alternatives 
because the city was busy due to a festival.
On his return Mr L said he wrote to a local NBS branch explaining what had 
happened and requesting it help him reclaim the payments for the hostel via the 
chargeback process. He received no reply and sent a follow-up letter on 17 June 
2022.
The NBS branch received the follow-up letter but said it couldnt identify Mr L as a 
customer based on the information in the letter. The branch manager looked up the 
address on the letter, and saw M (another customer) was registered there. He rang 
M and she told him that the letter was from Mr L.
Mr L was unhappy with the branch manager having spoken to M about his financial 
affairs. He considered this was a breach of data protection/confidentiality and made a 
complaint. He also reiterated (on 18 July 2022) that he wanted NBS to take forward 
the chargebacks. NBS told Mr L it was too late for it to attempt any chargebacks, and 
Mr L complained about this also. Mr L considered if it was too late for NBS to attempt 
the chargebacks then this was because it had failed to respond to his previous 
correspondence.
NBS rejected Mr Ls complaint. It said it hadnt received his initial letter in March 2022, and it 
hadnt shared any information it shouldnt have with M. It agreed it had given some incorrect 
information about the timescales involved in the chargeback process, but it didnt think this 
was material. It offered no further comment on why it had not attempted the chargebacks.
The complaint was then referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. In my provisional 
decision I split my findings into sections dealing with the matter of the chargebacks, and the 
matter of NBSs communications with Mr L and M. On the question of the chargebacks I 
made the following findings:
Mr Ls card had been a Visa debit card and any chargebacks would have been 
subject to the rules of the Visa card scheme. 
The Visa card scheme rules set out the various reasons for which chargebacks could 
be made, along with the relevant timescales, evidential requirements and limitations 
which applied to each.
A couple of different chargeback reasons from the rules had been referred to in the 
course of the complaint. One of them, Misrepresentation, wasnt applicable to 
Mr Ls scenario because it was intended to deal with very specific situations involving 
retailers such as timeshare resellers. The other, Not as Described/Defective 
Merchandise/Services, was the most fitting reason under Visas rules for Mr Ls 
situation.
Unfortunately for Mr L, the Visa rules1 contained some limitations or restrictions on 
chargebacks attempted for this reason. The rules said that any refund was limited to 
The unused portion of the cancelled service. Mr L had remained (albeit unhappily) 
at the hostel for the duration of his booking. He had used all of the service he had 
paid for and therefore he couldnt claim a refund via the chargeback process. I 
recognised that Mr L had been unable to find alternative accommodation, but this 
wasnt something the Visa rules accounted for.
Overall, I found that regardless of any failings on NBSs part, successful chargebacks 
against the payments for the hostel accommodation could not have succeeded and therefore 
it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to require NBS to refund the amounts.
I then proceeded to cover the matter of NBSs alleged communication failings, finding:
NBS, on balance, hadnt received Mr Ls initial letter.
It wasnt possible to verify exactly what had been said on the phone call between the 
branch manager and M due to no call recording having been provided. The branch 
manager and M had given different accounts of what exactly had been discussed, 
but I noted:
oThe evidence suggested M was already aware of the matters discussed over 
the phone.
oMr L later asked for M to be his representative in the same matters and 
wanted all the relevant information to be shared with her in any event.
oAny disclosure had been of a limited nature.
While NBS had a duty of confidentiality to Mr L and needed to observe data 
protection rules, I didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to require it to provide 
redress in respect of the phone call from the branch manager.
Looking in the round at the various other communication failings M had referred to on 
behalf of Mr L, I didnt doubt that Mr L had been annoyed and frustrated by his efforts 
to engage with NBS over the problems with the hostel stay, but I also didnt think the 
standard of communication from NBS had fallen below a level which warranted 
compensation.
1 A current version of the Visa rules can be found at this address: 
https://www.visa.co.uk/support/consumer/visa-rules.html [accessed 28 July 2023]Overall then, I said I was not minded to uphold Mr Ls complaint. I asked all parties to let me 
have any other submissions they wanted me to consider, by 21 July 2023. NBS said it didnt 
have anything it wanted to add. Neither Mr L nor M on his behalf has replied to the 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party to the complaint has put forward any new evidence or arguments for me to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision as 
summarised above. It follows that my decision is that Mr Ls complaint should not be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons explained in the summary of my provisional decision detailed above, I do 
not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman