DRN-2300481
The complaint
Mr J complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited wrongly placed credit markers 
against his name when he was unable to return a motorbike because of Covid-19 
restrictions. Ill refer to BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited as BMW.
What happened
In April 2017 Mr J took a motorbike on a 3-year hire purchase agreement from BMW. If, at 
the end of the hire period, Mr J wanted to keep the motorbike, he would need to make a 
balloon payment of over £6,600. 
When the hire period ended in April 2020, Mr J decided that he wanted to return the 
motorbike and contacted BMW to arrange its return. By that time, however, it wasnt possible 
for him to return it or for BMW to collect it. It wasnt therefore returned until restrictions were 
lifted in June 2020. 
BMW wrote to Mr J to say that the final payment under the agreement hadnt been made. 
This was, it said, an automated process which would be corrected on its systems. 
Mr J noticed however that his credit score had been affected. He believes a loan application 
was declined because of this and expressed concern about the impact it might have on a 
possible future mortgage application. He referred the case to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered it.  
BMW and Mr J have confirmed that corrections have been made to the credit files, so no 
missed payments are now showing. Our investigator considered however that, to resolve the 
matter fully, BMW should make a payment of £100 in recognition of the distress caused to 
Mr J and the inconvenience to which hed been put. 
BMW didnt accept the investigators recommendation and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case. It said that it wasnt responsible for the delay in collecting the motorbike and noted 
that Mr J remained in possession of it until June 2020. It said too that it had to contact Mr J 
about missing payments and had arranged for the credit file to be amended. It pointed out 
that Mr J was one of many customers in a similar position because of the pandemic; it 
wouldnt be fair on those customers to pay compensation to Mr J.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand BMWs position here. It was prevented by external circumstances from 
collecting the motorbike, just as Mr J was prevented from returning it. Its true as well that Mr 
J remained in possession of the motorbike  although its not clear how much use he had of 
it after the end of the hire period. 
I do however take the view that BMW could have given Mr J more reassurance about the 
position and its approach. It was, as BMW says, a difficult and unusual situation for it to have 
to deal with. The same could of course be said for Mr J.  
I should of course add, for the avoidance of any doubt, that my decision concerns only Mr J. 
I make no comment on the position of any of BMWs other customers.
Putting things right
In all the circumstances, I dont believe that it was unreasonable of the investigator to 
recommend a payment of £100 and I dont propose to recommend anything different. 
My final decision
My final decision is that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited should pay Mr J £100 to 
resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman