DRN-2519262
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that an ISA application she made to Al Rayan Bank PLC (ARB) was 
unsuccessful.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigators for these reasons:
While Mrs R believed she was making an application for an ISA through Mr Rs 
online banking profile, the evidence suggests that the application wouldve been pre-
populated with Mr Rs name and that this couldnt have been changed. So it wouldve 
appeared to ARB that Mr R was trying to apply for a second ISA, rather than Mrs R 
applying for her own on his profile. It doesnt seem that Mrs Rs name wouldve 
appeared anywhere on the application form.
ARB sent a welcome email which Mrs R understood to be an acknowledgement of 
her new ISA. But Mr R and Mrs R both use the same email address  so this email 
was actually in relation to Mr Rs ISA. The email sent wasnt addressed to anyone 
and, while this might have made it clear to Mr and Mrs R who the email was intended 
for, this isnt something ARB has chosen to include in its automated emails. My role 
isnt to ask ARB to change its processes. The decision over whether to do this is a 
matter of commercial judgment and not something with which our service generally 
interferes. 
The application was deemed by ARB to be a duplicate of Mr Rs original ISA 
application. And the payment of £20,000 that theyd intended to put into the ISA was 
returned to Mr Rs account as it was considered an oversubscription of his existing 
ISA. While they may not have noticed this due to other money going into and out of 
this account  so say they werent aware the ISA application had been rejected  I 
dont think it would be fair to hold ARB responsible for this. The £20,000 deposit was 
returned as ARB intended. It wasnt required to notify Mr R that this amount had been 
refunded and, again, it wouldnt be for me to ask it to change its process here.
The evidence suggests that Mrs R wouldve been asked if she was an existing ARB 
customer during the application process and, if so, wouldve been directed to apply 
for the ISA through her online banking area; or, if not registered for online banking, 
wouldve been directed to call a specific number. I see no reason why Mrs R couldnt 
have called this number if there had been an issue with applying for the ISA from her 
own profile.
Ultimately, I dont think ARB could reasonably have known that Mrs R had tried to 
apply for the ISA. While we can see that it was Mrs Rs intention to apply for an ISA, 
the fact remains that she didnt successfully do so. So ARB is under no obligation to 
put her back into the position she wouldve been in had she successfully applied at 
the time. I dont think it unreasonable that ARB hasnt accepted an ISA application for 
Mrs R (in her sole name) that was applied for through Mr Rs profile. This wasnt a 
joint application  and I can see from the evidence provided that joint applications 
wouldve have been accepted for this product. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Al Rayan Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman