DRN-3467854
The complaint
Mr R complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) rejected his 
chargeback request in respect of returned clothing.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Mr R didnt receive a refund for goods he returned to the merchant which I gather has 
ceased trading. The cost of the goods was £57 and as out investigator has explained section 
75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 does not apply. It covers only goods costing between £100 
and £30,000. 
The only route to recover the money was by means of a chargeback. It may be useful if I 
explain a little about this option. Chargeback is a process that is provided by the Card 
Scheme. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with 
the goods or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback.  Nor is 
chargeback a guaranteed method of getting a refund. The card scheme operator checks the 
nature of the problem against the possible chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will 
be successful. If the bank feels that a claim won't be successful, they don't have to raise a 
chargeback. It also only permits claims within certain time limits.
The time limit for a claim to be made under the scheme is 120 days from the date the goods 
were returned. Mr R purchased the goods on 3 February 2021 and they were returned on 5 
February 2021. He made his claim on 20 July. This means he was out of time to make a 
claim.
I have noted that AESEL declined the claim as it didnt consider it had enough information, 
but Mr R disputes this. However, given the merchant had ceased trading I doubt if a 
chargeback claim would have succeeded even if it had been made in time so I do not 
consider there are grounds which would allow me to uphold this complaint.
AESEL has credited Mr Rs account with £75 for service failings and I consider this to be fair 
and reasonable.
My final decision
American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) has already made an offer to pay £75 
to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) should credit his 
account with £75 if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman