DRN-4192448
Complaint
Mrs O is unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt do more to help her when she fell victim to a 
scam. Mrs O has been represented in bringing this complaint but for simplicitys sake, Ive 
referred only to her throughout the text of this decision.
Background
In February 2020, Mrs O fell victim to a scam. She made a payment of £10,000 towards 
what she believed was a legitimate investment opportunity.
On realising that shed fallen victim to a scam, she notified Santander. Santanders records 
suggest this was done in August 2021, although Mrs O tells us that she reported it verbally in 
March 2021. Its records show it attempted to contact her to obtain more information about 
her claim but was unable to do so. As a result, it closed her complaint in September 2021. It 
eventually refunded the money shed lost in November 2022.
Mrs O, however, is unhappy that its offer doesnt include interest on the sum she lost to the 
scam or any award for distress and inconvenience. The case was looked at by an 
Investigator who didnt think Santander needed to pay anything further to her. She said that 
Santander appeared to have taken reasonable steps to investigate the complaint but hadnt 
been able to get in touch with Mrs O. She didnt think it would be fair to expect Santander to 
pay interest for that whole period.
She also didnt think it needed to pay her anything in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience she suffered. She concluded that the distress was attributable to the actions 
of the fraudster, not Santander. Mrs O disagreed with the Investigators view and so the 
complaint has been passed to me to consider and come to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has already agreed to pay a refund to Mrs O, so the only question I need to 
consider here is whether or not it needs to include interest or an additional award for distress 
and inconvenience.
In July 2021, Mrs O submitted a complaint form to this service in which she set out how the 
scam had taken place. One of our case handlers forwarded this document on to Santander 
to let it know that a complaint had been made and to ask it to investigate.  
Santander needed to contact Mrs O to discuss the complaint. It needed her consent to begin 
recovery procedures by contacting the receiving bank  that is, the bank that managed the 
account controlled by the fraudster. However, it also needed to discuss the factual 
background to her case to allow it to decide whether a refund was payable.
I can see from its system notes that it attempted to do so on multiple occasions, used more 
than one telephone number in an attempt to establish contact and appears to have 
contacted Mrs O by email too. It also wrote to her on 10 and 20 December 2021.
Mrs O says that there was no need for Santander to obtain her consent because shed 
already given it when she reported the scam verbally in March 2021. Unfortunately, theres 
no record of this call taking place. Santander hasnt been able to locate a recording of it and 
the employee of the bank Mrs O spoke with didnt record any notes on its internal systems to 
show that the call took place.
While I dont doubt or disbelieve Mrs O when she says that she called in March 2021, this 
isnt supported by any of the other evidence available. I also find it unusual that Santanders 
system notes dont show any signs of Mrs O chasing the bank proactively or responding to 
any of its attempts at contact over a long period of time. In the circumstances, I dont find it 
fair and reasonable to expect Santander to pay Mrs O interest to cover the period between 
her reporting the scam and the eventual settlement date. I dont think its fair to say that it 
was the cause of the delay.
For the same reason, I dont think it should be expected to pay additional compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. I recognise that Mrs O has been through a difficult time as a 
consequence of the scam. However, I have to bear in mind that the bulk of that distress 
wasnt caused by Santander, but by the fraudster.  And while I accept that there was a long 
delay between Mrs O first notifying the bank of the scam and eventually receiving her refund, 
I think the effective cause of those delays was the difficulty Santander had in making contact 
with her to discuss the complaint.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman