DRN-3337886
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund the money he 
lost when he fell victim to a scam involving several companies between mid-2015 and 
early-2016. He thinks Halifax is responsible for his loss as it failed to identify the scam. 
Halifax says Mr T is responsible as he authorised the payments, and its too late to raise 
a chargeback claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
again here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
I issued my provisional decision in February 2022 setting out what I was minded to 
decide:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to direct Halifax to refund Mr T £125half of the last 
disputed payment (£250)but not the earlier payments, for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Mr T was scammed. But nor is it in dispute that, for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (in force at the time), he 
authorised the payments. So the starting position is that hes liable for them.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice, I would have expected 
Halifax to have systems in place to monitor payments for indications that its 
customers were at risk of fraud. In some circumstances, when such a risk 
was identified, Id expect it to make additional checks on the payment. If it 
failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold 
Halifax liable.
Up until the last disputed payment, I wouldnt reasonably have expected 
Halifax to have identified that Mr T was at risk from fraud. Most payments 
were under £1,000, with the highest being around £2,500. It would be too 
high a burden to expect Halifax intervene based on this, given the volume and 
value of transactions it processes and Mr Ts general account activity.
I appreciate Mr Ts point about the overall level of spending/transfers over the 
(approximately) six-month period. But the payments were spread out, often 
going to existing payees, and not for suspiciously high amounts compared to 
his general spending. Any payments in from his savings werent generally 
being spent immediately, in one go. As time went on, the payments came to 
form part of Mr Ts pattern of account activity  so they wouldnt reasonably 
have appeared suspicious to Halifax.
Mr T has provided information he found online to show that the companies 
were a scam. But I think it would be expecting too much of Halifax to play 
amateur detective and carry out extensive checks on individual merchants its 
customers choose to pay. That said, Id reasonably expect it to keep track of 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) scam warning list, and of warnings 
published by Investor Alerts Portal Organisation of Securities Commissions 
(IOSCO), the international body that brings together the worlds securities 
regulators. As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicated 
indicatedin its consultation paper entitled Banks Defences Against 
Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victimsthat it was 
good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types of 
scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly share timely and detailed 
intelligence about this.
Most of the companies Mr T paid didnt have FCA or IOSCO warnings at the 
time of the payments. But dating back to December 2014, there was an 
IOSCO warning about B. O. Technologies Limited doing business as Option 
Financial Markets. This explained they were doing business at option.fm 
and that the Ontario Securities Commission had found they were trading in 
securities without being properly registered. The very last payment Mr T is 
disputing is £250 sent to  www.option.fm in February 2016. No other 
payments went to this company.
The warning alone doesnt necessarily mean Option Financial Markets were a 
scam company. But I think it put Halifax on constructive notice that they might 
not be a legitimate merchant. So it would have been reasonable for it to have 
looked into the circumstances of the payment further. If it had done so, I 
consider it likely that Halifax would have uncovered the scam. As well as 
telling Mr T about the IOSCO warning, it could have told him to check if the 
company were properly registered in the UK with the Gambling Commission. 
The fact they werent properly registered was a sign of dishonest intentions, 
and I think it would have alarmed Mr T.
Additionally, if Halifax had questioned Mr T about how he came to make the 
payment, I think he would have told them (as hes told us): the companies 
contacted him via cold calls; they told him theyd match his investments; he 
was put under pressure to investment increasing sums; he was offered 
unrealistic returns/guarantees; and he didnt have control over the trading 
accounts. I think Halifax ought to have realised this sounded like a scam. If it 
had told Mr T this, Ive no reason to doubt he wouldnt have heeded the 
warning  as he did when his family explained this to him once they found out 
what was happening. I therefore think Halifax is to blame for not stopping this 
last payment.Ive also considered whether Mr T is partly to blame. I appreciate that he was 
being deceived, but he doesnt seem to have looked into the companies 
before paying them. If he had, I think he would have found some of the 
information hes provided as evidence they were a scam, such as the 
international regulatory warning about Option Financial Markets, plus some 
reviews for them pre-dating his payment. It appears this information was 
readily available online at the time. Mr T also told us in his initial submissions 
that he was being offered unrealistic returns/guarantees. But hes since told 
us that the companies actually lost his money and convinced him to invest 
more to recoup this. And that his concern grew  by the end, he was ignoring 
calls from the companies. So by the time of this last payment, I think he likely 
didor ought to have hadmisgivings. I therefore consider it fair to deduct 
50% from the loss Ive found Halifax could have prevented. Effectively, I think 
Halifax and Mr T should share the blame for this.
Ive also considered whether Halifax ought to have done more to help Mr T 
recover the earlier payments. Under the VISA chargeback rules in force at the 
time, claims in circumstances like this this would only succeed if the 
consumer had written documentation of the merchant(s) guaranteeing an 
amount of profit. And such a claim would need to be raised within 120 days of 
the transaction. By the point Halifax could have uncovered the scam, it was 
already too late to raise a claim for some of these payments. And based on 
what Mr T has told us, he didnt have written guarantees from the companies. 
So Im not persuaded that Halifax would have been able to help Mr T recover 
more of his loss, even if it had identified the scam when I think it should have 
done.
I appreciate this will be a disappointing outcome for Mr T, given the overall amount 
he lost to the scam. But I can only fairly make an award if I think Halifaxs errors 
caused, or contributed to, the loss. Ive only found that to be the case for the last 
payment. For the remainder, I think its the cruel actions of the scammersnot any 
errors that Halifaxwhich caused the loss.
 
I invited both parties to submit any further comments and evidence. Halifax has 
confirmed that it accepts my decision, but Mr T disagrees. In summary, he says:
The activity on his account showed a clear change. He didnt generally make 
payments over £1,000.
He thinks he did speak to Halifax on some occasions when transferring funds 
from his savings account to his current account, and explained this was for 
options trading.
The scammers told him to keep paying money as he needed to reach a certain 
amount in order to get it back.
The warnings were obvious and Halifax should have been concerned that his 
savings and current account were being drained, as banks will quickly chase 
up if customers are short by a few pounds.
If Halifax had intervened when he thinks it should have done, the chargeback 
claims would have been in time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. As this is largely for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, Ill focus here on addressing the responses to this.
Although Mr T says he believes Halifax questioned him over the phone about some 
payments connected to the scam, it has no record of doing so. Mr T hasnt been able to 
provide any firm records of this either. Whilst I place weight on what hes told us, Im not 
persuaded that alone is enough to safely conclude that any payments triggered and that 
Halifax missed a chance to prevent the scam. Particularly when Halifaxs (lack of) records 
contradict this. Im also mindful of how long ago this happened  which is likely to have 
affected Mr Ts recollections. For example, I cant rule out that the call(s) hes remembering 
related to something else, or that he simply made these payments via telephone banking 
without them flagging as suspicious  which I wouldnt have expected them to.
I appreciate why Mr T thinks Halifax ought to have picked up on the warning signs. But 
without the benefit of hindsight, I can understand why it wasnt concerned at the time. The 
starting position is that Mr T authorised these payments, so it was expected to promptly 
execute them. Thinking about what level of monitoring and intervention can reasonably be 
expected of banks, Im conscious these payments didnt generally clear his account balance 
and werent of such a value that Id expect it to intervene. They were also spread out, so 
came to form part of his expected account activity  which went on for a substantial period 
before he raised any concerns. Overall, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Halifax to 
promptly act on Mr Ts authorised payment instructions without completing further checks. 
It follows that Im not persuaded Halifax should have known to consider a chargeback claim 
any earlier than the last payment. And, as set out in my provisional decision, Ive not seen 
enough to show that Mr T would have been able to provide the information needed for the 
claim to have succeeded under VISAs chargeback rules, even if this had been raised 
sooner.
Mr T has explained part of his rationale for continuing to pay the scammers was that he was 
told he needed to reach a certain amount before he could withdraw. This doesnt alter my 
overall view that there were, or ought to have been, warnings signs apparent to Mr T by the 
time of his last payment. So I still consider it fair that he and Halifax should share liability for 
it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold this complaint. To put things right, I direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to refund Mr T £125, which constitutes 50% of the £250 disputed 
payment he made on 18 February 2016, and to pay 8% simple interest on this amount 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman