DRN-2828118
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General
(Fairmead) unfairly declined their home insurance claim.
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B made a claim under their Fairmead home insurance policy for damage to a
garden wall. Fairmead initially considered the claim under the accidental damage part of the
policy but said as the damage appeared to be wear and tear the claim would be excluded
under the cover.
Mr and Mrs B sent a report from their own contractors that disputed the damage was caused
by wear and tear. So Fairmead sent out its surveyors, Company A, to investigate.
Company A concluded the damage to the wall was most likely the result of ground
movement  heave or landslip  caused by neighbouring trees being cut down. So Fairmead
appointed its loss adjusters, Company B, to manage the claim on its behalf.
Company B agreed the wall was failing as a result of ground movement, potentially
subsidence related. Fairmead said that under the policy, where subsidence or heave is the
cause of the damage, cover is excluded for damage of this nature to garden walls, unless
the home is damaged by the same cause at the same time. Fairmead said the damage
being claimed for was limited to the garden wall and not found to be affecting any of the
buildings at the property  so it declined the claim.
Our investigator considered the matter and decided that Fairmead had handled the claim
fairly and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed, so the complaint was
passed to me to make a decision. I issued a provisional decision on this case in March 2021. 
Ive included part of this below:
Although Ive seen some contradictory evidence on file, on balance of Fairmeads
submissions, and what its communicated to Mr and Mrs B, it seems to have accepted the
cause of damage to the wall was the result of subsidence or heave. Cover is available for
this under the policy, but it excludes loss or damage of this nature to garden walls, among
other listed structures, unless; your home is damaged by the same cause and at the same
time.
Its not in dispute in this case that Mr and Mrs Bs home wasnt suffering from the same
cause at the same time. But they think the claim should be covered under the accidental
damage part of the policy because any subsidence or heave occurred on their neighbours
property rather than theirs.
It seems Fairmead has concluded the damage is as a result of subsidence or heave. And so
where it occurred is an important consideration in this case. I say this as although the
accidental damage policy term excludes damage as the result of subsidence or heave, it
goes on to specify of the site on which the buildings stand  buildings being the insured
property and its permanent fixtures and fittings, including garden walls as set out in the
policy terms.
This suggests to me that subsidence or heave that takes place on a different site to where
the garden wall stands would therefore not be excluded. This is the argument Mr and Mrs B
have put to us. And as Fairmead is relying on this exclusion, the onus is on it to show that it
fairly applies. To demonstrate this, its provided two reports that were carried out by its
appointed experts. So Ive considered these carefully.
Company As report concluded the damage was as a result of ground movement caused by
the neighbouring property cutting down trees on their land. Company Bs report, titled
Site Record, and its subsequent repudiation letter, seems to support there being some form
of ground movement, namely subsidence, thats damaged the wall. But I cant see that it
provides further commentary or evidence about its cause or, significantly, where that
movement is occurring, and what tests, if any, were carried out to determine this.
Theres further commentary given by Fairmead in its final response that talks about other
causes, such as a difference in height between the two gardens and an absence of weep
holes in the wall. But again, Ive not seen what I think is sufficient evidence in the reports to
support this, or a more detailed conclusion on why these factors would result in the damage
being experienced. And this letter doesnt seem to conclude on which specific peril has most
likely occurred.
In my experience of cases of this nature, I would usually expect to see more information,
thats often strengthened and supported by the findings of site investigations  such as trial
pits, bore holes, or soil analysis as some examples. Particularly in light of the wall standing
in place seemingly without issue for many years.
Company As report on the other hand concludes the movement is occurring because of
neighbouring trees being cut down. This suggests to me that the ground movement may
originate from the neighbouring land  and so not on the site on which the buildings
(including the garden wall) stand, as specified in the exclusion Fairmead is relying on.
With all of this in mind, and based on what Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded Fairmead has
sufficient evidence to demonstrate where and why the suspected ground movement is
occurring. And in turn I dont think its acted fairly by declining this claim for accidental
damage under the subsidence or heave exclusion its relied on.
Mr and Mrs Bs appointed contractor and Company As reports seem to support the finding
that the damage to the wall was unlikely caused by wear and tear. And Ive not seen another
reason why it wouldnt be covered under the accidental damage part of the policy. I therefore
intend to direct Fairmead to settle the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Its my understanding that Mr and Mrs B have already had some work carried out to the wall
or may have had it repaired completely as its been some time since the claim started. If this
is the case, its likely Ill direct Fairmead to reimburse them for this (in line with what
shouldve been paid out under the claim) on receipt of sufficient evidence which
demonstrates the costs theyve incurred. Mr and Mrs B should respond to this decision with
any relevant information and evidence theyd like me to consider regarding this.Mr and Mrs B accepted my provisional decision. But Fairmead disagreed. In summary it said 
there was no cover under the subsidence or accidental damage sections of the policy. And 
that if Mr and Mrs B think the removal of their neighbours trees caused the problem, they 
should seek legal advice to rectify the matter. It also said site investigations, such as trial 
pits, wouldnt be completed in a case such as Mr and Mrs Bs. But Fairmead also attached 
an updated and much more detailed summary from Company B after their review of the 
provisional decision. Ive included part of this summary below.
It is widely accepted that for many deciduous trees, their roots span at least the width of the 
crown and for evergreens even further still. Now, when considering the trees removed from 
the garden of the neighbour, coupled with their proximity to the wall in question, it is entirely 
feasible that tree roots will have transgressed the boundary of the two properties [beneath 
the wall]. And, as a result, onto the land of the Insured resulting in shrinking of soil on both 
Sides. I submit that heave [as opposed to subsidence given trees were removed] may have 
occurred on both the site of the neighbour; and, that of the Insured. With that borne in mind; 
the decision to decline this claim should stand.
They go onto say  The fact the trees do not themselves reside on the land is not the 
correct question  but where the actual occurrence of subsidence is  and it is that fact that I 
believe should be considered before a formal decision is made. If the proximity is such that it 
is inevitable roots affected the soil on both sides of the boundary, the declinature stands. If 
the trees are so remote that subsidence/ heave could not have occurred on the land of the 
risk address, the decision to overturn the claim may succeed.
So essentially, Company B set out what they think is feasible, most likely, and what may 
have occurred based on their experience. But they also say that a site visit may provide the 
information needed  which may need to go somewhat further to include a trial pit inside the 
boundary of the Insured to see if they get tree roots from the offending trees. They said it 
may also require DNA testing of any roots that remain. However, given the time thats 
passed and the removal of the offending trees, gathering conclusive findings may be difficult.
I considered the findings of Company Bs response carefully, and in doing so, I was still of 
the mind Fairmead hadnt done enough to fairly rely on the accidental damage exclusion it 
used to decline the claim in this case. 
But as more detailed arguments and explanations had now been put forward from 
Company B about why the ground movement may also be occurring on Mr and Mrs Bs 
property, I thought it fair that Fairmead carry out the site investigations Company B 
mentioned to determine this  as Im satisfied these shouldve been carried out in the first 
place in the circumstances of this case. Fairmead would then need to reconsider the claim in 
light of the site investigation findings and in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
This was a change to the conclusion reached in my provisional decision, so I put this to both 
parties. Mr and Mrs B disagree that Fairmead should be given any more time to carry out 
further site investigations. They say it had ample opportunity and made a decision to decline 
the claim based on insufficient information. They dont wish to allow Fairmead access for 
further site investigations and maintain the claim should be paid. Fairmead said the damage being claimed for may not meet the accidental damage definition, 
but even if it did, it thinks site investigations could show that another exclusion may apply 
that will still result in the claim being declined. So it doesnt think it needs to do anything 
further. Ive considered both parties comments in full and set out my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, buildings insurance covers the cost of repairing or rebuilding the insured 
property if its damaged or destroyed due to a type of unforeseen event  often referred to as 
an insured peril. And the onus is on the insured to show that this has occurred. Mr and Mrs B 
are making a claim for what they say is accidental damage. This type of cover is available 
under the policy but is subject to certain terms, conditions and exclusions.
Fairmead argue that the damage to Mr and Mrs Bs wall may not meet the accidental 
damage definition, as the party responsible for the removal of their neighbours trees 
shouldve assessed the impact the removal would have on the surrounding area before 
completing the removal. And the failure to do so means the damage wasnt unexpected. But 
as far as Im aware, this alleged failure is speculation on Fairmeads part. Ive not seen 
evidence in this case of what action was taken by Mr and Mrs Bs neighbours before the 
trees were removed, so I cant know whether or not an appropriate assessment took place.
With that in mind, I dont think Fairmead has enough evidence in this case to reasonably 
conclude the damage wasnt unexpected. And based on the current information available, I 
see no other reason why the damage thats occurred in this case doesnt meet the policy 
definition of accidental damage. So Im satisfied, on balance, that there was an insured peril 
in this case and so the claim can reasonably be considered under accidental damage.
But Fairmead goes on to say that even if it could consider the claim under accidental 
damage, it still thinks it will be declined because damage caused by settlement, shrinkage 
or expansion of the buildings or the site, isnt covered under the accidental damage part of 
the policy. So if further site investigations show the site has shrunk or expanded, then its 
likely to arrive at the same conclusion regarding the claim. 
As Fairmead seeks to rely on an exclusion to decline the claim, the onus shifts to it to show 
that it fairly applies. But the fact is that Fairmead hasnt carried out the site investigations to 
reasonably evidence that it does. Company Bs updated report now expresses the opinion 
that the ground movement is most likely the result of heave, but certainty of where the heave 
is occurring hasnt been established in this case. And as set out in my provisional decision, 
the location is an important factor in the exclusions Fairmead seek to rely on to decline the 
claim in this case.
It follows that based on what Ive seen, and after reconsidering all the comments received 
since my provisional decision, I still dont think Fairmead has done enough in this case to 
fairly rely on the exclusions it has to decline Mr and Mrs Bs claim. And for the reasons set 
out above, I think the fairest next step would be for Fairmead to carry out the further site 
investigations Company B have referenced in their most recent summary. It should then 
reconsider the claim in full in line with the policy terms and conditions, taking into 
consideration the updated site investigation findings. Im aware Mr and Mrs B dont wish to allow Fairmead the opportunity to attend their property 
again and believe the initial findings of the provisional decision should stand and the claim 
should be paid without further investigation. But as explained to them, in issuing a 
provisional decision, both parties are given equal opportunity to put forward any further 
information and this can sometimes change the initial outcome.
Company B has now presented detailed information that could impact the outcome about 
whether the claim should be paid or not, so I think its reasonable that the further site 
investigations be carried out, to hopefully give a more definitive and fair answer on this 
before a decision on the claim is made. If Mr and Mrs B dont wish for Fairmead to do this 
thats ultimately their choice. But I wont be directing Fairmead to pay the claim in this 
decision, as on balance of what Ive seen, and in the specific circumstances of this case, I 
think its fair for the further site investigations to take place before a claim decision is made.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that with Mr and Mrs Bs agreement, 
Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General should carry out the further site 
investigations referenced in Company Bs most recent summary. It should then reassess 
and issue a decision on Mr and Mrs Bs claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy, taking into consideration the updated site investigation findings.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman