DRN-3374582
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) unfairly turned down a claim 
on his guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy.
Reference to Amtrust includes its agents which administer the policy on its behalf.
What happened
Mr Ds car was damaged in an accident that wasn't his fault. A solicitor helped him in 
pursuing his claim against the other drivers (the third party) insurer. Eventually the third 
party insurer settled Mr Ds claim on the basis that his car was a total loss, although Mr D 
kept the salvage.
Mr D made a claim for the difference between the third party insurers settlement and the 
purchase price of his car on his GAP policy. Amtrust turned down his claim. It told Mr D that 
his car hadnt been deemed a total loss as required by the policy but was repairable.
Mr D brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 1 March 2022. For ease 
I've copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and in response to our investigators assessments of it Mr Ds 
made a number of detailed points. I've considered everything on file carefully. But in this 
decision I dont intend to address each and every issue raised and instead will focus on what 
I see as being the key matters in order to arrive at a fair outcome.
Amtrust initially declined Mr Ds complaint because it said his car hadnt been deemed a total 
loss and was repairable. But I dont find that argument persuasive. I've seen an entry on 
Amtrusts file that it spoke with the third party insurer who did, at one point, say that it was 
Mr Ds solicitor who was pushing for a total loss declaration when the car might be 
repairable. And I note that this is something the solicitor disputed and suggested that the 
third party insurer had made a mistake. But, regardless of the earlier file entry I've seen that 
the third party insurer unequivocally confirmed that it had deemed the car a total loss after 
an inspection. It told Amtrust the car was definitely a write off (total loss).
Further, its worthwhile noting that an independent engineer wrote an inspection report and 
estimated the costs to repair Mr Ds car, before stripping it down, was approaching 70% of 
its market value. And that is a percentage figure that most insurers I'm aware of would deem 
a car to be a total loss at. So I'm satisfied that the third party insurer deemed the car to be a 
total loss and that Amtrusts arguments that didnt happen aren't supported by the facts.
Amtrust also refused Mr Ds GAP claim because he hadn't claimed directly from his own 
motor insurer for the total loss of his car but instead, with the help of his solicitor, claimed 
from the third party insurer. Ive seen that Mr Ds GAP policy says that in order to be covered 
by it he needed to claim directly from his own motor insurer. As Mr D didn't do this, under the 
strict terms of the policy, Amtrust was entitled to refuse his claim. But that doesn't mean it 
was fair for it to do so.
Ive seen that Mr D contacted Amtrust about his claim fairly early on in the process. But I've 
seen no evidence that Amtrust advised him that it would only cover a GAP claim if he 
pursued a claim for the market value of his car through his own insurer. And I think that if 
Amtrust had made it clear when he told it about his GAP claim that he needed to claim for 
the loss of his car through his own insurer, he would have done so. That would have entitled 
Mr D to claim from his GAP policy. But because it didn't tell Mr D he needed to claim from 
his own insurer he lost the opportunity to do so before the other drivers insurer had actually 
settled the claim.
In those circumstances I don't think its fair for Amtrust to refuse the claim. I think its worth 
noting that Mr D gave Amtrust the opportunity to speak with the third party insurer. And 
theres no dispute that the third party insurer paid Mr D a fair settlement for the market value 
of the car. Neither is it in dispute that Mr D paid Amtrust a premium to cover exactly the sort 
of claim that he made. Nor have I seen any evidence which makes me think Mr D having 
claimed from his own insurer would have resulted in a different claim outcome. So, in those 
circumstances, I think the reasonable thing for Amtrust to do would be to consider the 
actions of the other drivers insurer as being those of Mr Ds own insurer. In other words it 
should settle Mr Ds claim as if the third party insurers decision that the car was a total loss 
and the settlement it paid to him for that came from his own insurer. It should add simple 
interest to any claim settlement at a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mr Ds claim on its 
policy to the date it makes payment to him.
It follows that I don't think Amtrust dealt with Mr Ds claim fairly and reasonably. And I'm 
aware that its poor handling has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr D over 
a period of many months. To address that I think it should pay him £250 compensation.
Neither Mr D nor Amtrust made any further substantive comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Amtrust nor Mr D objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to depart 
from it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Amtrust Europe Limited to:
Settle Mr Ds GAP claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of his policy, 
as if the third party insurers settlement for the market value of his car came directly 
from his own insurer. It should add simple interest to its settlement figure at a rate of 
8% a year from the date of Mr Ds claim to the date it makes payment1.
Pay Mr D £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
1 If Amtrust considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that
interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a certificate showing this if
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman