DRN-4466574
The complaint
Mr D complains that AWP P&C SA declined his travel insurance cancellation claim. My 
references to AWP include its agents.
What happened
Mr D took out a travel insurance policy through his bank which began in June 2018 and 
renewed annually. AWP is the insurer of the travel insurance element of the policy.
In October 2021 Mr D booked a trip abroad. The trip was due to begin in February 2022 but 
just after Mr D had been due to go he contacted AWP to make a claim for cancellation of the 
trip as he was waiting for heart surgery.
AWP declined the claim. In summary it said there was no cover for the claim under the policy 
terms because:
Mr Ds medical information showed that in February 2019 hed been diagnosed with 
floppiness to the tip of his mitral valve (mitral valve prolapse) and had been on 
clopidogrel (antiplatelet medication which prevents platelets from forming a blood 
clot) for the condition since then.
Mr D hadnt told it about the mitral valve condition or medication as required by the 
policy terms and in the annual statement of eligibility that was sent to him. It had also 
reminded Mr D of the need to declare medical conditions in 2021 when hed made a 
claim for a different medical condition.
Mr Ds GPs evidence was that part of the surgery which caused the trip cancellation 
was for mitral valve repair.
AWP also noted that Mr D had been prescribed various medications including for raised 
blood pressure and had other medical conditions, but he hadnt declared any.
AWP accepted thered been some delay in it assessing the claim and paid Mr D £80 
compensation as a goodwill gesture.
Mr D complained to us that AWP unfairly declined the claim. In summary he said:
The main cause of his surgery was a coronary bypass for narrowed arteries and the 
mitral valve repair could have waited.
In 2019 when the mitral valve was detected the cardiologist didnt think the mitral 
valve issue was a concern and said it wasnt medically detectable.
He was taking clopidogrel for his eye condition, not the mitral valve. And the other 
medication he took was to reduce risk of disease.
AWP referred to him making annual declarations about his health but hed not been 
asked to sign a declaration.
Our investigator said AWP fairly declined the claim as Mr D hadnt answered the policy 
medical questions as he should have done.
Mr D disagreed and wanted an ombudmans decision. He added that there was no evidence 
of mitral valve leakage in 2019, that was found in 2022. He didnt think it fair for AWP to say 
that the minimal floppiness in the mitral valve found in 2019 was a medical condition.
During our investigation AWP told us that if Mr D had told it about his mitral valve prolapse it 
would have covered him for an additional premium and it would also have increased the 
premium for the blood pressure and cholesterol medication he should have told it about.
Before I made this decision I asked AWP to provide me with some more information around 
the policy renewal and premiums Mr D would have had to pay. AWP didnt respond.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the points Mr D has made but I wont address all his points in my 
findings.
Ill focus on the reasons why Ive made my decision and the key points which I think are 
relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
I think AWP unreasonably declined the claim. Ill explain why.
The policy terms
The policy covers trip cancellation due to Mr Ds illness, subject to the policy terms. But the 
policy specifically excludes a cancellation claim arising from or in connection with:
a pre-existing medical condition or an associated condition, unless the pre-existing 
medical condition has been declared to and accepted by the insurer.
The policy definition of pre-existing medical condition is:
when, at the time of booking the trip or opening the account, beneficiaries are unable 
to comply with the Medical Statements on page 8 of this Guide.
The Medical Statement on page 8 says:
Important conditions relating to health
You can call the insurer on...to talk about your medical circumstances or if you need
to declare a medical condition for cover.
At the time of applying for (the policy) or before you book a trip, you must call the 
insurer to tell them about any medical conditions you or any other beneficiary have. 
The insurer will tell you whether or not the benefits of the Travel Insurance Policy are 
available to you at no charge; whether an endorsement to the Travel Insurance 
Policy can be purchased for an additional premium to cover your medical condition; or, if the insurer cannot cover your medical condition at all. The insurer will write to 
you to confirm what they tell you over the phone.
Unless declared to the insurer and cover is accepted in writing, you or any other 
beneficiary will not be covered for any claims arising as a direct or indirect result of 
an existing medical condition if you or they answer YES to any of the following 
questions:
1. Are you or any other beneficiary receiving, or are waiting to receive, inpatient or
outpatient treatment?
2. Within the last 2 years, have you or any other beneficiary:
a) been prescribed medication, received medical treatment or consulted a general
practitioner (GP)?
b) attended or been due to attend a hospital or clinic as an inpatient or an
outpatient?
c) ever been diagnosed with or treated for any cancerous, respiratory, heart or
circulatory conditions (problems with blood flow, including high blood pressure,
strokes and high cholesterol)?
3. Have you or any other beneficiary been given a terminal prognosis?
4. Are you or any other beneficiary awaiting the results of any tests or investigations,
whether a condition has been diagnosed or not?
Note that if you do not contact the insurer in this way you may not have any benefits
available to you if you make a claim. If the insurer is unable to cover your medical
condition(s), then they will not pay claims that are related to that condition.
The policy also says:
Changes in your health
If your health changes before you book a trip or you travel, whichever is later 
(including medical conditions that are undiagnosed or awaiting investigation) you 
must tell the insurer about these changes. This is required whether a previous 
endorsement has been made or not to the Travel Insurance Policy for any of your 
medical condition(s).
So the policy doesnt provide cover for any pre-existing conditions, as defined by the policy,
unless they have been declared by Mr D and accepted by AWP. And the policy terms
require Mr D to tell AWP about any change of health before he books a trip.
The medical evidence
Ive considered the available medical evidence to decide if I think AWP reasonably 
considered that the claim was directly or indirectly a result of an existing medical condition.
There are two medical certificates, the first dated 22 February 2022 and the second dated
18 October 2022. Both certificates say the same for Questions 2 and 3.
Question 2 asked the GP to state the precise nature of the medical conditionthat givesrise to the claim. Mr Ds GP response was mitral valve repair and coronary bypass surgery.
Question 3 asked please advise whether the patient has suffered from, been treated for or
been diagnosed at any time with any medical condition directly or indirectly related to the 
condition in Q2. Mr Ds GP response was Tiny floppiness tip mitral valve with the onset of 
symptoms being 2019.
So although Mr D said his mitral valve repair wasnt the main reason for his surgery, from the
GPs evidence I think AWP reasonably considered it was one of the reasons his trip was
cancelled. And while theres no evidence that Mr D had a leaking mitral valve before he 
booked the trip in October 2021, from the GPs evidence AWP reasonably considered that
the floppy mitral valve found in 2019 was related to the mitral valve repair that required
surgery in 2022 which was part of the reason Mr Ds trip was cancelled.
Theres other medical evidence which Ive summarised below.
Mr Ds neurologists letter of 23 January 2019 says Mr D has vision problems in one eye.
The letter notes that Mr D is under the care of a consultant cardiologist and another
consultant and has significant vascular risk factors. It also notes that Mr D was taking
medication for type 2 diabetes and hypertension and he was advised to take aspirin then to
change to clopidogrel. Tests for Mr D were arranged.
Mr Ds consultant cardiologists letter of 12 February 2019 says Mr D had an
echocardiogram and that he had a tiny bit of floppiness in tip of the mitral valve which was
minimal and not detectable. and that It is right to continue with the clopidogrel, as per when
I saw you last month.
In October 2020 Mr D saw the consultant neurologist again for similar vision problems in his 
other eye. The letter from those consultations notes that Mr D had, and was due to have,
various investigations and that his medications included clopidogrel, a statin and blood
pressure medication and other new medication.
The medical certificates completed by Mr Ds GP asks under question 2 with the heading
details of medical condition causing the claim please list the current medication being
prescribed for this condition. In the certificate dated 22 February 2022 the GPs response
lists various medication Mr D is taking including clopidogrel.
Mr D says his GP wrongly completed the section as the GP put his medications which were
for other conditions. The amended medical certificate dated 18 October 2022 from the GP
says in response to the question please list the current medication being prescribed for this
condition that there is no specific medication prescribed for this condition. Recommended
operation.
I dont think the GP has given clear information about what, if any, medication was given for
the floppiness of mitral valve tip, as his response of 18 October 2022 related to the leaking
mitral valve repair and coronary bypass surgery.
My conclusions
Mr D says hes not been asked to make an annual medical disclosure. AWP says he was
sent an annual eligibility declaration. AWPs given no evidence that the declaration was sent
to Mr D. But the policy terms are clear that Mr D wont be covered for any claims arising as a
direct or indirect result of an existing medical condition if at the time the trip was booked he
would answer yes to any of the questions Ive detailed above.From the medical evidence Ive seen I think Mr D should have reasonably answered yes to
questions 2 (a) (b) and (c) as within the two year period before he booked the trip in
October 2021 he had various medical issues, tests and medication.
AWP say if Mr D had told it about the mitral valve prolapse it would have covered him for an
extra premium.
But I dont think the matters Mr D should have reasonably answered yes to related to his
mitral valve prolapse, which is the condition that related to one of the medical conditions
which caused his cancellation claim.
I say that because Mr D had the test which showed the mitral valve prolapse in
February 2019, outside the two year period from October 2021. And although question 2(c)
asks whether Mr D has ever (my emphasis) been diagnosed with a heart condition I think it
was reasonable for Mr D to consider that he hadnt been told he had a heart condition.
The consultants letter of February 2019 supports that Mr D was told he had a tiny bit of
floppiness in tip of the mitral valve which was minimal and not detectable. Given the
language used and information given by the consultant I think it was reasonable for Mr D to
believe he didnt have a heart condition due to that matter.
Although I think Mr D should have reasonably answered yes to the questions at 2 (a) and
(c) as he was taking clopidogrel and medication for his blood pressure and cholesterol I dont
think the medical evidence showed that any of those medications were prescribed or related
to the mitral valve prolapse. So I dont think it would fair for AWP to decline the claim
because Mr D didnt tell it about that medication.
I dont think AWP fairly declined the claim on the basis that Mr D should have answered yes
to the above questions about the mitral valve prolapse.
AWP should reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr D said he had no comments.
AWP didnt agree with my provisional decision. It provided some of the information Id 
requested before I made my provisional decision. In summary, AWP said Mr D didnt pay a 
premium or fee for the policy and the policy wasnt a packaged account benefit, rather its an 
extra that clients can opt-into. Mr D would have been sent an annual reminder of eligibility 
requirements which tells him he needs to declare his conditions each October. Mr D had 
never made any medical declarations. It didnt currently have a retrospective quotation for 
the policy price for the impact of the medications prescribed to Mr D.
AWP also made comments on my provisional decision. In summary it said :
It wasnt reasonable for Mr D to consider that his floppy mitral valve wasnt a heart 
condition. 
It wasnt reasonable for Mr D to consider hed never been diagnosed with or treated 
for any respiratory, heart or circulatory conditions. Id referred to him having been 
prescribed medication (treatment) for his blood pressure.
Id said the policy is clear that Mr D wouldnt be covered for claims arising as a direct 
or indirect result of an existing medical condition if he would have answered yes to the medical questions and that he should have answered yes to some of the 
questions asked. 
Id said that within the two year period before the trip was booked Mr D had various 
medical issues, tests and medication none of which had been declared.
For such claims it relied on the medical information provided and Mr Ds GP 
highlighted the link between conditions. 
It had correctly declined the claim under the policy terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered AWPs response to my provisional decision and reconsidered all the other 
evidence and Im still satisfied AWP unreasonably declined the claim. Ill explain why. 
The information AWPs now provided about the policy set up is irrelevant to the key issue 
about whats a fair outcome to the complaint because I dont think a proportionate payment 
of the claim is appropriate. That have may have been fair if I thought Mr D should have 
reasonably declared his floppy mitral valve to the questions he was asked and AWP would 
have covered him for an extra premium, which it says it would have done. 
But the important point is that because of the information the consultant gave to Mr D - that 
he had a tiny bit of floppiness in tip of the mitral valve which was minimal and not 
detectable- I think it was reasonable for Mr D to believe he didnt have a heart condition. So 
it was reasonable for him not to declare to AWP that he had a floppy mitral valve when 
asked if he had a heart condition. 
As Ive explained above, from the medical evidence Ive seen I think Mr D should have 
reasonably answered yes to questions 2 (a) (b) and (c) set out above, as within the two 
year period before he booked the trip in October 2021 he had various medical issues, tests 
and medication. But for the reasons above I dont think the matters Mr D should have 
reasonably answered yes to related to his floppy mitral valve.
As Ive also said, AWP reasonably considered that Mr Ds GP said there was link between 
the floppy mitral valve found in 2019 and the mitral valve repair in 2022, which was part of 
the reason Mr Ds trip was cancelled. But, due to the consultants advice, I think Mr D 
reasonably didnt tell AWP about the floppy mitral valve. So I think AWP couldnt fairly 
decline the claim on the basis that the two conditions were related.
Mr D did have medication for his blood pressure. But even though I think he should have told 
AWP about taking that medication, for the reasons Ive given above, I dont think the medical 
evidence shows that the medication related to Mr Ds floppy mitral valve. AWP has provided 
no further evidence to persuade me that his blood pressure or other medication did relate to 
his floppy mitral valve. So I think AWP couldnt fairly decline the claim because Mr D didnt 
tell it about that medication.
It's not clear if AWP considers that the policy terms mean it can decline the claim because 
Mr D should have answered yes to questions about conditions/treatment that are unrelated 
to the condition/s which caused the claim. But if it does I dont think that would be 
reasonable. For AWP to reasonably decline the claim it needs to show that Mr D should reasonably have declared his floppy mitral valve condition or treatment/medication related to 
that condition and for the reasons above I dont think AWP has shown that.
Overall for the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I dont think 
AWP fairly and reasonably declined the claim, it should put things right as Ive detailed 
below.
Putting things right
AWP must reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
 My final decision
I uphold the complaint.
I require AWP P&C SA to reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman