DRN-1000535
The complaint
Mr B has complained that MBNA Limited failed to properly inform him of changes to his 
credit card.
What happened
Mr B has had a credit card with MBNA for some years. He took the card out when it was 
branded with a different provider and he says he took it out specifically to enjoy the 
cashback benefit it provided. 
In 2016, MBNA changed the terms of the cards account, and removed this cashback 
benefit. Mr B has said he was not made aware of this change and had he known he would 
not have continued to use the card. Mr B feels he has lost out on hundreds of pounds in 
cashback and that MBNA should pay this to him. 
MBNA did not uphold Mr Bs complaint about this. It said he had been sent a letter, in March 
2016, advising him of the change to the account. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service, saying that he had not received the March 2016 
letter and that the evidence MBNA had provided did not demonstrate that it had been sent to 
him. Our investigator thought that the terms of the account allowed for the change to have 
been made and that the March 2016 letter had most likely been sent to Mr B. She felt this 
letter was adequate notification of the change, so MBNA hadnt acted inappropriately. As 
such, our investigator did not recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr B remained unsatisfied. He did not think the existence of the template letter from 
March 2016 was adequate evidence that this had been sent to him and he maintained that 
he had not received it. Mr B also pointed out that he had opted to manage the account on a 
paperless basis, so thought any updates should have been sent to him in a paperless 
format. Our investigator was not persuaded to change her opinion though, and so Mr Bs 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has said that he did not receive the March 2016 letter and that he was not aware of the 
change to the account terms for several years. I have no reason to doubt this and I 
appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling around the loss of benefit he might otherwise have 
realised.
However, my role here is to determine whether MBNA acted fairly and reasonably when 
making the change it did and then when informing customers, and specifically Mr B, about 
this change. 
It should be noted that this was a change that was made to all of MBNAs customers with 
this account. It was not limited to Mr Bs account. The terms and conditions of accounts do change from time to time. And provided the 
relevant change is allowed by the existing terms, and that the correct process is followed, we 
would be unlikely to say a bank has acted inappropriately. 
The terms of Mr Bs account at the time of the change allowed for MBNA to make changes 
for a number of reasons, provided 30 days notice was given to customers. 
The letter MBNA sent to its customers, advised of the change to the cashback benefit. This 
letter was sent in March 2016, and the change took effect in May 2016, which was more 
than 30 days later. As such, this letter met the relevant requirement in the terms and 
conditions. 
I appreciate Mr B has said that he did not receive this letter. However, MBNA has been able 
to provide the account notes for Mr B. These include an entry dated 30 March 2016, stating:
NTFY-Interchange-Cashback-Letter ref IM04.
The template letter MBNA has provided from March 2016, explaining the change, is 
referenced IM04. Based on this, I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that MBNA sent 
this letter to Mr B.
I note Mr B has said that he did not receive this letter. But I am satisfied MBNA did all it was 
required to, by sending the letter. And I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable to hold it 
accountable for any failure in its delivery. 
I do note that Mr B had apparently opted to manage his account in a paperless manner. But 
whilst this might mean he would receive statements electronically, MBNA has said that it 
would notify all customers of changes to their account terms and conditions via the post. 
This practice is common to many banks, etc. and is not something I find unusual or 
inappropriate. It is also something that was permitted by the account terms and conditions, 
which allow for MBNA to make contact and notify customers of changes via any contact 
details held and via any means, including post. As such, I dont consider MBNA acted 
inappropriately by sending the relevant notification to Mr B in the post.
I am sympathetic to Mr B's situation. He has said that the main reason he had this card was 
to benefit from the cashback reward. And that he has continued to use the card on the basis 
that this benefit still existed. But I am unable to conclude that MBNA acted inappropriately 
when removing this benefit from the account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman