DRN-4155262
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus Bank) wont refund payments it didnt make. 
Mr M, who is a director of F, brings the complaint on Fs behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
Cashplus hasnt disputed this concerns unauthorised payments. However, in line with 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund them because it asserts 
Mr M failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep 
Fs personalised security details safe.
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded Cashplus has 
shown thats the case. Ill explain why.
Mr M received a call that appeared to come from Cashpluss number. He said the 
caller knew information about Fs account and they told him that someone was 
attempting fraudulent transactions.  
Mr M recalled how the caller said hed receive an email  they instructed him to 
forward this to an email address that mentioned Cashplus, so they could confirm his 
email address hadnt been hacked. 
In these circumstances  when the call appeared to come from Cashplus and theyd 
sensitive information about F  I can see how Mr M trusted the call was genuine. So I 
can also understand why Mr M followed the callers instructions and forwarded the 
email, particularly when theres no warning about sharing it.  
Cashplus submit its clear its not a genuine Cashplus email address. While it might 
be obvious to someone thats very familiar with how Cashpluss email addresses 
look, I can see how it didnt ring alarm bells with Mr M in the heat of the moment 
when he was worried about fraud. Afterall, the email address mentions Cashplus and 
it doesnt look like a personal email address. 
Cashplus has also argued that, because Mr M checked the number who was calling, 
he ought to have checked the email address too. But I think its likely Mr M was 
reassured he was talking with his genuine bank when he checked the number  so I 
can see why he didnt carry out further checks afterwards. Im not persuaded this 
adequately shows Mr M acted with very significant carelessness to conclude he 
failed with gross negligence. 
It follows that, in line with the PSRs, I dont consider F can be fairly held liable for 
these unauthorised payments and Cashplus needs to put things right  by refunding 
Fs losses from these unauthorised payments alongside 8% simple interest per year 
to compensate it for the time its been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Fs complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
must:
Pay F the total of the unauthorised payment, less any amount recovered or refunded 
 I understand this to be £8,597.50.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman