DRN-2888295
The complaint
Mr P1, represented by Mr P2, has complained about his motor insurer Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited because it left Mr P1 with little option but to cancel his policy. 
What happened
Mr P1 arranged a policy with Advantage in June 2018. The policy was dependant on Mr P1 
fitting a smart box to his car which gathered data about his driving behaviour in order to 
create a score. Mr P1 had to pay a non-refundable fee for the box and there was a policy 
requirement that Mr P1 maintained a behaviour score of more than 40 (out of a maximum of 
100). The policy allowed Advantage, in the event the score dropped below 40, to cancel the 
policy with seven days notice. 
In October and November 2018 Mr P1s score dropped to 39. Advantage sent warnings to 
Mr P1 and advice was given about how to increase the score. Mr P2 contacted Advantage 
as he felt its scoring system was flawed. Advantage accepted that some old speed limits had 
been used. It assured Mr P2 it had updated its records and Mr P1s score, for a time, did 
return to more than 40.
  
But by this time Mr P1 had started driving, on occasion, late at night. The driving behaviour 
score is negatively affected by driving between the hours of 10pm and 5am. At the beginning 
of March 2019 Mr P1s score dropped to 37. On 8 April 2019 Advantage wrote to Mr P1 
advising it was cancelling the policy with seven days notice because Mr P1s driving 
behaviour score was below 40. But Advantage invited Mr P1 to cancel the policy himself 
before that date if he wanted to. Mr P1 cancelled the policy but complained.
Mr P1 said he thought the data collected by the box, which then generated the behaviour 
score, was flawed. He felt Advantage had acted unfairly to cancel his policy, that this had 
likely been done to avoid it having to provide a renewal in a few months time. Mr P1 was 
unhappy that he had lost the opportunity to gain one years claim free driving, and that hed 
have to pay a cancellation fee of £45, as well as losing the £150 fee hed paid for the box. 
Advantage issued a final response to Mr P1. It said that it was confident in the data 
gathering and scoring process. It noted it had given Mr P1 several warnings in 2018 that his 
policy might be cancelled  including one following his score being amended which 
explained that if it dropped below 40 again it would apply the seven day cancellation notice 
allowed in the policy. It also noted that during the period Mr P1 had been covered, he had 
accessed its online data and scoring system 365 times  so it was confident he had known 
his score needed to be improved.  Advantage said it didnt think it had provided a poor 
service at any stage but, as a goodwill gesture, it would refund the £45 cancellation fee. 
Mr P1 and Mr P2 were unhappy with Advantages reply and complained to us.
Our investigator asked Advantage to see various pieces of information. Advantage sent us 
some details but not everything asked for. Our investigator upheld the complaint as he 
wasnt persuaded, based on the limited information Advantage had provided, that it had 
acted fairly by cancelling the policy. Advantage didnt agree with our investigators findings 
so Mr Bs complaint was passed for an ombudsmans consideration.
The complaint was passed to me. I felt Advantage had acted fairly and didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. So I set out a provisional decision to explain my views to both 
parties. My provisional findings were:
Even without further data having been supplied by Advantage, Im not persuaded its fair to 
uphold Mr P1s complaint. Im issuing a provisional decision to explain my views and both 
parties will have chance to reply before I make a final decision.
Mr P1 agreed when taking this policy to be bound by its terms and conditions. Part of those 
terms were to do with the smart box and driving behaviours scores. The paperwork from 
Advantage issued when the policy began was clear that Mr P1 had to pay a fee for the box 
which was non-refundable and that he had to maintain a score of over 40 or the policy could 
be cancelled with seven days notice. Ultimately Mr P1 did not keep a score above 40 and 
Advantage did give him notice it was going to cancel the policy within seven days. Mr P1 
didnt do what he was supposed to do, and Advantage did do what the policy allowed. 
Strictly speaking then there is no failure by Advantage. That means its only if Im satisfied 
that Advantage most likely acted in an unfair or unreasonable way, that I can find against it.
I appreciate there was some uncertainty about the data and scoring in November 2018. 
Advantage says it updated its systems. I havent seen evidence of that  but I do see that, 
following this, Mr P1s score, for a time, did exceed 40. And I havent seen any clear detail or 
evidence from Mr P1 and Mr P2 which might suggest the data and scoring was still flawed 
after that point. I also see that whilst speed limits were a point of contention in 
November 2018, around that time, Mr P1s score began to be negatively affected by the 
times at which he used the car, as driving at night attracted a lower score than daytime 
driving. Advantage has explained that this activity has a significant impact on scores  
meaning all other ratings have to be quite high if drivers are using the car at certain times, so 
that the overall score stays above 40. I think then that its more likely that Mr P1s score was 
negatively affected by his driving behaviour than any error of data or systems on 
Advantages part. 
I note that following the amendments in November 2018, Mr P1s score first fell below 40 at 
the beginning of March 2019. But it was not until 8 April that Advantage decided to cancel 
the policy with seven days notice. I havent seen that Mr P1 or Mr P2 tried to contact 
Advantage during that time to query the low score again. And I think that by not taking any 
action for at least a month, Advantage gave Mr P1 fair chance to improve his score. It isnt 
clear to me if Mr P1 accessed the online system during this month in order to check his data 
and scoring  but if he didnt, I cant fairly blame Advantage for that. I say that because 
Mr P1 had been put on notice in November that if his score fell below 40 again Advantage 
may well cancel with seven days notice. So I think he should have been paying close 
attention to his score and acting to amend and improve it wherever possible. And if hed 
thought Advantage should have been amending it because it was still using flawed data, 
I think that a period of over a month was time enough for a query to have been raised with it.
I see that Advantage has reimbursed the cancellation fee, but I havent seen anything that 
makes me think it provided poor service to Mr P1. I see that Mr P2 has said that at times 
Mr P1 felt upset by the calls made to him to discuss his driving behaviour score and how to 
improve it. Whilst I can understand that, I think these types of calls and discussions were 
part and parcel of having a policy which is reliant on smart data and behaviour scores. It isnt 
unusual for an insurer to rely on this type of data and treat it as correct unless the 
policyholder can provide evidence that it isn't accurate. But, I haven't seen that Mr P1 or P2 
has provided any compelling evidence that the data Advantage used to calculate Mr P1s 
score, before warning him it would cancel the policy, shouldn't be relied upon. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr P1  but I havent seen that Advantage has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in handling his policy which ultimately resulted in its 
cancellation. Therefore, Im not persuaded to uphold this complaint. 
Advantage didnt respond to my findings. Mr P2 objected to them. In summary he said:
All the driving data has not been supplied and it must be assumed that is because it cant 
be relied upon.
Advantage mustnt believe it acted fairly as it did offer a refund of the cancellation fee.
The data Advantage was using was successfully challenged in 2018, including the time 
of day Mr P1 was alleged to have been driving.
Advantage agreed to fix the issues and Mr P1s score improved until near the time the 
policy was due to end.
Online reviews for Advantage are poor, showing that, for it, cancelling of young drivers 
policies is commonplace.
The ombudsman should take the side of Mr P1 as he is the consumer and honourable, 
having paid for a service in full, and all Advantage has done is treat him unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr P1 and Mr P2s frustration  our investigator asked for evidence they felt 
was needed to determine that Advantage had acted fairly, and when this wasnt provided our 
investigator found the cancellation was unreasonable. But it wasnt a case that Advantage 
hadnt provided any data to us  and when I assessed the evidence and submissions from 
both parties, I felt there was sufficient evidence available for me to fairly determine that 
Advantages decision to cancel had been fair and reasonable. 
Advantage refunded the cancellation fee as a goodwill gesture. That doesnt necessarily 
mean it had acted unfairly or unreasonably, or even believed it had done anything wrong. 
The policy allowed Advantage to act as it did  and it had put Mr P1 on notice about driving 
at night; that it has a significant impact on the overall score which can only be negated by 
keeping other scores high. The initial concern I saw on the file about incorrect data was to do 
with Advantages system not having up to date speed limits. Ive not seen any proof from 
Mr P1 or Mr P2 that Mr P1 was at home at night when the system had recorded the car was 
in use. In early 2019, when his score began to drop again, Mr P1 had the chance to 
challenge the driving at night and speed data which was affecting his score, had he wanted 
to, before the notice to cancel was given. But from what Mr P2 says he chose not to as the 
online reviews caused him to think it was pointless, as Advantage cancelling the cover was 
likely a foregone conclusion. The difficulty with that is; 
it leaves Mr P1 in the position of having breached the contract he had with Advantage  
because he was meant to keep his score above 40;
he hasnt challenged that breach with Advantage  the fact he had successfully 
challenged his earlier low score doesnt mean the breach which led to the cancellation 
can or should be ignored;
the contract Mr P1 agreed to says Advantages remedy for the breach is cancellation. 
Whilst I know this will be upsetting for Mr P1, I cant reasonably find in his favour when 
I havent seen that Advantage acted unfairly. And I cant take into account online reviews or 
concerns about how others perceive Advantage generally runs its business. Thats because my focus is on the circumstances of this specific complaint i.e. what happened between 
Mr P1 and Advantage, and was Advantages response fair and reasonable. With regret for 
the upset I know this will cause Mr P1, I think it was.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P1 and Mr P2 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman