DRN-2725481
The complaint
Ms D and Mr M complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly 
declined a claim they made under the home emergency part of their Breakdown Protection 
Plan. 
What happened
Ms D and Mr Ms Breakdown Protection Plan provides insurance cover for a number of 
eventualities, including home emergency. In August 2019, they submitted a claim to RSA 
under the home emergency part of their policy as they had discovered woodworm at their 
home. RSA declined the claim as it didnt believe woodworm was covered under the 
applicable terms. 
Ms D and Mr M complained as the policy provided cover for vermin, and so they had an 
expectation the claim would be covered. RSA stood by its decision as it was satisfied the 
claim had been declined fairly. However, it did offer £75 compensation for the delay in 
sending a copy of the policy schedule and booklet. 
Our investigator was satisfied that RSA had handled the claim fairly  she agreed cover 
wasnt provided for woodworm. She also found the offer of £75 fair for the delay in sending 
out policy documentation. 
Ms D and Mr M have asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, 
they dont accept that the wording of the policy excluded cover and they continue to believe 
it as a reasonable expectation of cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms D and Mr M feel strongly about this matter and believe they had a 
reasonable expectation of cover. So I have considered whether RSA has considered their 
claim fairly and reasonably. 
Most insurance policies only over the events that the insurer wishes to be on risk for. So for 
many policies, there will be events that arent covered at all, and other events which are 
covered but might be subject to exclusions and/or limitations. 
The starting point is the agreement between Ms D and Mr M and RSA  the policy terms and 
conditions, including the schedule. They set out what the policy provides cover for, and what 
limitations and/or exclusions apply. And it is those that Ive considered when deciding 
whether RSA has dealt with the claim fairly. 
On page 17, the policy sets out:
Emergency incidents that will be covered by this policy:
- Vermin such as rats, mice, or wasps nests which immediately expose the insured 
to a risk to their health or create a risk of loss or damage to the main residence. 
As emergency and incidents appear in bold, they receive the policy definition. Emergency 
is defined as:
The result of an incident at your main residence which immediately:
Exposes you to a risk to your health or;
Creates a risk of loss of, or damage to, your main residence or
Renders the property inhabitable
Incident is defined as:
The sudden and unexpected event causing damage to the property, or likely to 
cause damage to the property in the immediate future. This definition shall include 
damage to, or breakdown of the essential services to the main residence and/or 
permanent and irreplaceable loss of all keys required to gain access to the main 
residence but not outbuildings. 
I accept Ms D and Mr M might have held a belief they were covered for the woodworm they 
discovered at their home. But Im not persuaded their claim is covered under the terms of the 
policy. 
Vermin isnt a defined term within the policy. That means it gets its everyday ordinary 
meaning, in the context of the insurance being provided  i.e. a class of creatures that can 
cause harm to a persons health or damage to the property, as provided for in the clause. 
This context can be drawn from the creatures listed  mice, rats and wasps nests. These are 
all creatures that can and do cause harm to humans  either through carrying disease, 
causing allergic reactions, or causing damage to property, say by chewing through electric 
cabling which could cause a fire. These are by no means the only creatures that could cause 
this type of harm or damage, hence the use of such as; and I dont think it would be 
practical to list all of the creatures this could possibly apply to. But the use of such as 
doesnt necessarily mean all creatures, or even all vermin, are covered. 
I say this because it isnt enough for there to be vermin present for a valid claim to exist. The 
remaining policy terms need to be met in relation to that vermin. As can be seen from the 
above definitions, there needs to be an immediate risk of harm to health, or damage to 
property, or for it to be rendered uninhabitable. And it needs to be a sudden and unexpected 
event. 
Whilst I accept discovering woodworm might be unexpected, Im not persuaded it is sudden. 
Woodworm takes months, if not years, to cause damage. And I havent seen any persuasive 
evidence that Ms D or Mr M were at an immediate risk to their health, damage to property or 
the property was rendered uninhabitable. So whilst I accept woodworm could be considered 
vermin, Im not persuaded the claim meets the requirements of an emergency incident as 
defined by the policy terms for cover to be provided. It follows that I dont find RSA declined 
the claim unfairly or unreasonably. 
I note RSA offered Ms D and Mr M £75 for the delay in sending out policy information. I find 
this a fair reflection of the inconvenience caused by the delay. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given, my final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has 
already fairly settled this complaint. I require it to pay Ms D and Mr M £75 if it hasnt already 
done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman