DRN-4191243
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy about the way British Friendly Society Limited (BFSL) dealt with his claim.
What happened
Mr J has a short-term income protection insurance policy with BFSL which pays a benefit for 
a maximum of one year per clam if he cant work due to illness or injury. There is a deferred 
(waiting) period of one week. 
Mr J made a claim which was paid for the maximum period of one year between July 2021 
and July 2022. Whilst he was off from work, Mr J contacted BFSL and told them he had a 
second, unrelated health problem which was going to require surgery and time off work. He 
had been experiencing pain since September 2021. BFSL asked Mr J to send details of the 
new condition once he knew more about it. On receiving the further information, BFSL said 
the claim wouldnt be covered. 
Mr J complained but BFSL maintained it had correctly declined the claim. 
Unhappy, Mr J brought his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think BFSL had treated Mr J fairly. She 
recommended that BFSL reassess Mr Js second claim and also pay him £250 
compensation. 
BFSL disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
It will need proof of earnings to show that Mr J returned to work for 3 days and if a 
second claim period is payable, his benefit level will be assessed against his new 
earnings. 
The policy doesnt provide cover if a policyholder returns to work against the advice 
of a doctor. 
BFSL spoke to Mr J in May 2022 and he said he didnt expect to be able to return to 
work before surgery. There is no evidence that he did return to work or that his GP 
advised him he could return to work. 
Mr J said he tried to return to work but wasnt able to due to his ongoing injury. BFSL 
says this isnt a new incapacity and it is clear that Mr J wasnt fit to return to work. 
The terms say Mr J needs to be working and earning an income at the start of 
incapacity to receive benefit. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld in part. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. It should also provide appropriate advice 
and guidance.
I issued my provisional decision on 31 May 2023 in which I said:
The policy terms 
Ill start by setting out the policy terms and definitions which are relevant to my 
decision. 
Deferred period is defined as follows:
This is the period, starting on day one of your incapacity, during which time no 
benefit payments are made. Benefit payments will start once the deferred period has 
expired. The deferred period (if any) that is applicable to your policy is shown in your 
policy schedule.
Day one is defined as follows:
This means the first day that you are unable to work due to incapacity in the opinion 
of your Doctor. 
Incapacity is defined as follows:
This means that you are totally unable to carry out your occupation due to physical 
or mental illness or injury resulting in a complete or partial loss of income. 
5.11  Claiming again after returning to work 
Protect (Short Term) policy only. The length of time for which benefit payments will 
be made for each period of incapacity will be limited to 1,2 or 5 years depending on 
which benefit payment period you have chosen. After the benefit payment period (1,2 
or 5 years) has expired, all benefit payments will cease. Before you can claim again 
for the same incapacity, you must have returned to your occupation for a continuous 
period of at least 26 weeks without suffering from a recurrence of the original illness 
or injury and your chosen deferred period will apply. If you need to claim again for a 
different incapacity, your chosen deferred period will apply.
5.8  Amount of benefit payable when you claim 
If we accept your claim and you are working in your normal occupation or 
occupations when incapacity starts, we will pay the full amount of benefit
I will now set out the key evets to determine whether BFSL declined Mr Js second 
claim fairly. 
April 2022  Mr J contacted BFSL about his new injury. He also provided a 
sick note to cover the period 24 April 2022 to 1 August 2022 for his initial incapacity. 
May 2022  BFSL emailed Mr J and advised that after the benefit payment 
period of one year, all benefit payments would cease and before he could 
claim again, he must have recovered from the current incapacity, returned to 
his occupation and be in receipt of an income. It also said it would need 
definitive medical evidence to show that the new incapacity wasnt related to 
his current incapacity. it said Mr J would need to be certified as fit enough to 
return to work following the current problem. 
Before the end of the one-year benefit period, BFSL wrote to Mr J and 
confirmed his claim would reach its maximum term on 28 July 2022. It said: 
Before you can claim again, you must have returned to your occupation for a 
continuous period of at least 26 weeks without suffering from a recurrence of 
the original illness or injury and your chosen deferred period will apply.
BFSL also said: My understanding is that even though your payment under 
your short-term Protect policy will end on the 28 July 2022, you will not be fit 
enough to return to work at that point, as you are now waiting forsurgery.
3-5 August 2022  Mr J attempted to return to work on reduced duties. 
31 August 2022  Mr J emailed BFSL and said he had asked his GP for a fit 
note but he was told to just go back to work, which he did. But his return to 
work failed as he wasnt able to carry out his duties due to the current injury. 
He had seen a consultant in July who had injected him to provide pain relief 
and was due for a further review in October to discuss a further injection or an 
immediate operation. 
September 2022  Mr J provided BFSL with a scan and a letter from his 
consultant. BFSL said Mr Js symptoms were first documented six months 
ago and he would have needed to have returned to work without any ongoing 
symptoms or treatment which may prevent him from working and it needed 
evidence of a regular income. 
14 September 2022  BFSL emailed Mr J and said his second medical issue 
appeared to be present over the last six months and was now preventing him 
from returning to his insured occupation. He attempted to return to work 
between 3-5 August 2022 but this was unsuccessful. It said you will need 
to have been in receipt of a regular income from work related activity at the 
point of your more recent injury or illness occurring. Such medical conditions 
which develop during your initial incapacity period are unlikely to be 
supported until you have demonstrated an ability to return to work in your 
usual capacity prior to your original injury or illness. It said Mr J could appeal 
and provide further evidence. 
15 September 2022  Mr J emailed BFSL and said he had a genuine medical 
problem which warranted a new claim. He felt his current medical issue 
occurring whilst under a previous claim warranted discretion. His new medical 
issue was preventing him from returning to work in the long term. 
22 September 2022  BFSL emailed Mr J and said his return to work between 
3 and 5 August 2022 wasnt viewed as being a successful return to work, it 
did not have evidence of earnings or that Mr J was fit to return to work whilst 
experiencing symptoms of his current medical issue. It said it needed to be satisfied that his current incapacity was not the same or a related medical 
issue to his previous incapacity. It said as Mr J was found to have issues of 
osteoarthritis in September 2021 it concluded that the current medical issue 
related to this. 
Mr J replied and said he had recovered from his initial incapacity but his new 
issue was preventing him from returning to work. 
October 2022  BFSLs final response says the assessment of any new claim 
would be based on Mr Js occupation, duties and hours at the time. It 
maintained Mr J wasnt eligible for a second claim. 
Having considered everything carefully including the available medical evidence, I 
agree that there is a question over whether Mr J was fit enough to return to work in 
August 2022. And so I think this needs to be probed further. As Mr J is making a new 
claim for incapacity, the onus in on him to prove his incapacity. Based on the policy 
terms, the start of Mr Js incapacity would be day one and the deferred period starts 
on day one of the incapacity. The medical evidence suggests Mr J was already 
incapacitated from the second condition before his first claim ended. This is based on 
the scan he provided to BFSL and the consultants letter dated July 2022 which 
confirms Mr J was given an injection to help ease the pain and that a further review 
would take place in three months time. 
BFSL has suggested the second medical problem started during the first claim 
period. And I think it could have given clearer advice and guidance to Mr J when he 
started making enquiries about a second claim. 
The policy terms say that Mr J can make a claim for incapacity with a maximum 
benefit period of one year. This means that if he remains off work due to illness, he 
wont be eligible to make another claim until he has returned to work. This is 
confirmed in the title of section 5.11.
Mr J did attempt to return to work in August 2022 but by his own admission, this was 
unsuccessful as he wasnt able to carry out his duties due to his second injury. This 
suggests that Mr J wasnt fit to return to work at the time. So Mr J would need to 
demonstrate, through medical evidence, that he was fit to return to work between 3 
and 5 August 2022 but then became incapacitated on 6 August 2022. BFSL also 
asked for evidence of Mr Js earnings between 3 and 5 August 2022 but I cant see 
that this has been provided. 
Based on the current medical evidence, Im not satisfied that Mr J returned to work 
following the end of his first incapacity or that he only became incapacitated on 6 
August 2022. For that reason, I dont think BFSL unfairly declined the second claim. 
If Mr J has additional medical evidence from his GP or specialist to show that his 
second medical issue only started on 6 August 2022 and that he wasnt incapacitated 
by it before this date, then he should send this to BFSL for consideration. 
However, I do think BFSL could have provided better advice and guidance to Mr J 
about his ability to make a second claim. And it could have been clearer about his 
second medical issue. It said it concluded that the second condition was 
osteoarthritis and said it needed to be satisfied that it wasnt related to the first issue. 
There is no evidence that Mr Js second issue was related to the first issue. And Im 
satisfied that Mr J provided sufficient evidence to show this. So I think BFSL 
confused matters by referring to Mr Js osteoarthritis unnecessarily. And this would 
have caused frustration to Mr J for which I think £250 compensation is reasonable. Both sides have responded to my provisional decision. BFSL has accepted what I have said. 
Mr J has provided further medical evidence and photos in relation to his second incapacity. 
In summary, he has made the following comments: 
He has provided photos and letters to show the injury was separate to his initial 
reason for incapacity. 
He could have provided evidence of an income but BFSL never asked for this. And 
he couldnt provide his back to work status through a GP but this has been 
highlighted as something that should have been done.
The whole point of the complaint is that the injury happened before the end of the 
first claim period.
He was advised to wait for his initial claim to end before making a new claim. 
He was pressured by BFSL to try to go back to work. 
He was told not to worry about income as BFSL could use its discretion and use his 
past income but later decided it wouldnt do this. 
He was unable to work following the operation and was incapacitated until March 
2023. BFSL should have supported him during this time. 
He was given an option to freeze cover but then he would be unable to claim. BFSL 
knew this and this benefitted BFSL which was disappointing and stressful. 
BFSL had no grounds to decline the second claim as he met all the criteria. And it 
should have used its discretion. He feels BFSL has tried to confuse him.
Ive carefully considered all the available medical evidence, circumstances and Mr Js 
submissions. I will respond to the points which I think are key to my decision. I accept Mr J 
has provided evidence to show his second incapacity isnt related to the first one. 
Mr J says he could have provided evidence of an income but BFSL didnt ask for this. And 
that his GP wouldnt provide a fit note. He also says the whole point of his complaint is that 
the injury happened before the end of his first claim period. But his policy doesnt allow 
concurrent claims for different conditions. It is a short term policy. Mr J has been paid the 
maximum amount of benefit following his initial incapacity. And so there is no further cover 
for Mr J under the terms of the policy until he demonstrates that he is fit enough to return to 
work. In relation to the GP note, if the GP doesnt provide official fit notes, Mr J could have 
asked for a letter supporting his return to work and explained this is a requirement of his 
insurance policy. But that is a matter between him and his GP and not something the 
insurance company can be held responsible for. In relation to the income requirements, this 
is something Mr J could have provided to BFSL as part of the appeals process. 
Mr J is unhappy with the advice and guidance he was given. I agree that BFSL could have 
provided better advice and guidance to Mr J and this caused him frustration. I dont think 
BFSL pressured Mr J to go back to work. It explained that he would have to go back to work 
before being eligible to claim again. And BFSL provided information about freezing the policy 
which is an option under the policy. Mr J chose not to freeze his policy as this would limit his 
ability to claim. As the consequences of freezing the policy are clear within the terms, I dont 
think BFSL did anything wrong here.
Mr J says BFSL had no grounds to decline his second claim. But I disagree with him. He 
wasnt eligible to make a second claim under the terms of the policy, as set out above. I cant 
fairly ask BFSL to use its discretion to pay a claim outside of the policy terms. And so I dont 
see any reason to depart from my provisional decision, which I now adopt as my final 
decision. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct British Friendly 
Society Limited to pay Mr J £250 compensation for the frustration caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman