DRN-2451829
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W are unhappy that Integra Insurance Solutions Limited (Integra) declined 
their claim for storm damage under their home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W contacted Integra when a piece of cement fell from their chimney and 
caused damage. Integra sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. It then turned down the 
claim, as it didnt think that the damage was due to a one-off storm event. It thought that the 
damage was due to wear and tear, which wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr W and Mrs W complained to Integra. When Integra replied, it maintained the decision to 
decline the claim. So, Mr W and Mrs W complained to this service. Our investigator upheld 
the complaint. He said that a homebuyer survey carried out for Mr W and Mrs W a few 
months before the claim didnt highlight any issues with the chimney. He said he also hadnt 
seen any evidence of ongoing deterioration. So, he thought it was likely that the damage 
was caused by a storm.
Integra didnt agree. Another investigator looked at the complaint. He also upheld the 
complaint and said that he thought the damage was most likely caused by a storm.
As Integra did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 20 November 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at weather data for the period around the time that Mr W and Mrs W made their 
claim. This showed that winds reached a peak of 58 miles per hour around the time that the 
damage occurred. So, I think there were storm conditions close to or at the time of the 
damage.
Ive also thought about whether the damage is consistent with what a storm might typically 
cause. I think a storm could cause part of a chimney to dislodge. So, I think the answer to 
this question is yes.
So, Ive looked at whether I think storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. Mr 
W and Mrs W had a homebuyers survey carried out a few months before this damage 
happened. The survey said:
There is one chimney stack of brick construction. Flashings where visible are of lead
construction.
Normal weathering is evident but no significant works are currently required  1 rating.
Our investigator asked the surveyor what the rating meant. The surveyor said that he used a 
rating system as follows:
1- no repair is currently needed- property must be maintained in normal way. i.e. would 
require normal decoration & maintenance
2 -repairs are not serious but need work
3-urgent attention required
The chimney was assessed to be in the first category. So, Im satisfied that a recent 
assessment showed that there were no repairs required to the chimney.
Ive also read the survey report carried out for Integra. This listed the cause of the damage 
as:
A pice of concrete has broken of from the concrete slab on top of the chimney. There is a lot 
of moss growth on the slab. (As original.)
The report also confirmed that the overall condition and maintenance of the property was 
good and said NA for a question about whether there was evidence of pre-existing or long 
term damage/ failure/ defective or substandard construction. So, I think that the only findings 
made by the surveyor at the time of the survey was that there was moss growth and that the 
property was in good condition. There was nothing in the report that suggested there were 
long term issues.
While our investigator was looking at the complaint, Integra provided an email from its 
surveyor confirming that the damage to the chimney was due to an ongoing issue and not a 
one off incident. It said that the concrete fell from the chimney due to an ongoing 
deterioration of the concrete, which occurred over time as the result of a natural breakdown 
of materials.
When our investigator wrote to both parties upholding the complaint and explaining his 
findings, Integra replied and said it disagreed. It said that the deterioration of the capping on 
the chimney was:
very likely to have occurred over the winter period, given it is caused by water entering the 
already present hairline cracks which subsequently freeze causing the capping to fail.
I am of the view that the photographs clearly show the growth of moss on the capping, which 
demonstrates it was in need of general maintenance. The repairs required to the concrete 
capping cannot possibly be as a result of a one off incident of storm and it can only have 
occurred due to normal weathering, as described above.
Ive thought about this carefully. The only issue identified by the surveyor and Integra itself 
was that there was moss on the chimney. Integra has since argued that the damage was 
likely caused by water entering the chimney through hairline cracks over the winter period. 
However, neither the surveyor or Integra have provided evidence of the presence of hairline 
cracks. So, although that is a possible explanation for what happened, there is nothing that 
shows that it actually happened in this case. I dont accept that the presence of moss meant 
that there were also hairline cracks present. If there were hairline cracks present, the surveyor could have explained this in his report or when he provided further clarity on his 
findings. But he didnt do so. As a result, I dont think it is fair, or based on evidence, for 
Integra now to argue that there were hairline cracks present and that as these would indicate 
a maintenance issue, that the claim should be turned down as a result.
But, I think there is evidence that the chimney didnt require any work a few months before 
the damage occurred and that, at the time of the damage, the only issue found with the 
chimney was that it had some moss growing on it. As a result, I think it is more likely than not 
that the storm was the main cause of the damage.
So, thinking about all of the above, I currently intend to uphold this complaint and require 
Integra to settle the claim. If Mr W and Mrs W have had the work carried out, I also think that 
Integra should pay interest from the date the invoice was paid, as they lost the use of that 
money from that time. Im also currently of the view that Integra should pay Mr W and Mrs W 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of their claim.
Im aware that there is some doubt about whether Integra was aware of damage to roof tiles 
caused when the concrete fell from the chimney. However, I note that Integra confirmed that 
it hadnt said the roof tiles werent covered as part of the claim and that Mr W and Mrs W 
should submit the quote or invoice for that work to Integra so that it can consider the 
information. 
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 20 December 2020.
Mr and Mrs W said that they hoped Integra would accept the decision and settle the claim 
promptly.
Integra said that it had provided all of its evidence and that it had nothing further to add. It 
requested that the final decision made it clear that the 8% interest only applied to the costs 
of the chimney repairs, as it hadnt received any documentation about the repair to the roof 
tiles.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my provisional decision and uphold this complaint 
for the reasons previously given. Ive noted the comments from both parties, including the 
comment about the interest only applying to the part of the claim that relates to the chimney 
repair.
  
Putting things right
Integra should settle the claim for storm damage. It should pay interest on the cost of 
repairing the chimney if Mr W and Mrs W have already paid for the work to be carried out, as 
they lost the use of that money. It should also pay Mr W and Mrs W £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld. As a result, I require Integra Insurance Solutions Limited to:
Settle the claim for storm damage.
Pay 8% interest on the costs relating to the chimney damage if Mr W and Mrs W have 
already paid for the work to be carried out.
If Integra Insurance Solutions Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W and Mrs W how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr W and Mrs W a certificate showing this if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay Mr W and Mrs W £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr W and Mrs W 
accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman