DRN-3173328
The complaint
Miss D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim for storm damage 
on her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Miss D said her property had suffered from strong winds and storms in the past few years. 
She noticed water damage in the airing cupboard and thought that the roof profile had 
dropped. So she contacted her insurer. But Aviva took a long time to issue its findings and 
Miss D said it unfairly rejected her claim. Shed arranged for a roofer to carry out an 
inspection and they felt it was due to storm damage. So she wants Aviva to consider her 
claim.
Aviva said there were storm conditions around the time Miss D lodged the claim. But after 
inspecting the property it couldnt find any damage to the roof. After reviewing photos 
provided by the independent roofer Aviva said they showed evidence of wear and tear rather 
than storm damage. And it felt itd declined the claim correctly. 
Aviva accepted its findings shouldve been sent to Miss D sooner. Shed only become aware 
of Avivas decision after chasing for a response. And it apologised and offered Miss D £100 
compensation for the delay.
Miss D wasnt satisfied with Avivas response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator looked at all of the information but didnt 
think there was enough evidence to suggest a storm was the main cause of the damage. 
She looked at the surveyors report, but the facias and roof appeared undamaged. She could 
see some moss growth and the chimney flaunching and pointing appeared to be in poor 
condition. And our investigator felt the staining in the airing cupboard looked like itd 
occurred gradually rather than because of a one-off storm event. So she couldnt say the 
storm was the main cause of the damage. And she thought Avivas decision to decline the 
claim was in line with the evidence shed seen.
Miss D didnt agree with our investigator. She felt most roofs were susceptible to moss 
growth. And Aviva had accepted there were storm conditions at the time. So shes asked for 
an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how upsetting this has been for Miss D. Shes been a loyal customer of 
Aviva and she expected her insurer to help when she reported a problem. 
As our investigator has explained, our service considers three main questions when looking 
at this type of complaint. 
The first thing I look at is whether there was a storm at the time in question. If there wasnt a 
storm there cant have been any damage caused by a storm. Miss D says her property had 
been affected by strong winds and storms for some time. And Aviva accepts there was a 
storm around the time she lodged her claim. So Im happy the first question is satisfied.
The second and third question I look at if Im satisfied theres been a storm is whether the 
damage to Miss Ds property is consistent with what Id expect a storm to cause. And if so 
whether the storm is the main cause of the damage suffered. But Im afraid I dont think 
these were satisfied here.
The surveyors report said there wasnt any damage to the soffits and facias and the roof 
tiles were all in place. Although the report said there was no evidence of storm damage to 
the property, it did say there were areas of the roof that were in a poor condition and 
required maintenance. There was some water staining in the airing cupboard, but the 
surveyor felt aging and gradual deterioration rather than damage from a one-off storm event 
was the likely cause.
I think Aviva was entitled to rely on its surveyors opinion to decline Miss Ds claim and I 
dont think it was unreasonable for it to do so. I appreciate Miss D sent photos from a roofer 
who said a section of the tiles was lifting during high winds. But after reviewing the photos 
Aviva still felt there was no evidence of storm damage and any problems pre-existed the bad 
weather. 
Miss D didnt receive an update from Aviva after it received the loss adjusters report. If she 
had, it wouldve allowed Miss D to send the roofers photos for a second opinion much 
sooner. Even though Aviva still felt the photos showed evidence of wear and tear rather than 
storm damage, I think Miss D was put through unnecessary additional stress and uncertainty 
while she waited for a decision.
Aviva has accepted it shouldve updated Miss D sooner. And its paid £100 compensation for 
any trouble and upset caused. I think thats the right decision. Its the sort of amount I 
wouldve asked the insurer to pay if it hadnt already done so. 
But based on everything Ive seen I think Avivas decision not to settle Miss Ds claim for 
storm damage was fair and reasonable. I know Miss D will be disappointed with this 
outcome. But after looking very carefully at everything Miss D and Aviva have said, including 
the roofers photos and Avivas response, Im not persuaded the damage is the result of a 
storm. 
I dont think Miss D has thrown sufficient doubt on Avivas conclusions to make me think it 
should change its opinion. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman