DRN-4164332
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) 
declined his claim under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Hs pet dog went through an operation in September 2022 to amputate its tail. Mr H had 
taken out a pet insurance policy with C&G at the relevant time and which had commenced in 
February 2021 and lodged a claim with the company. C&G declined the claim and said that 
the treatment wasnt covered by the policy. Mr H made a claim on his pet insurance policy 
and was unhappy that the claim was declined. He said that the treatment was carried out for 
the benefit of the dogs health and not for cosmetic or elective reasons. Mr H then made a 
complaint to the company however it maintained its position. In the circumstances, Mr H 
referred his complaint to this service.
The relevant investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint. She said that the policy terms 
made it clear that the insurance company wouldnt cover tail docking and concluded that its 
decision to decline the claim was reasonable and in line with the policy terms. Following 
receipt of further evidence however, the investigator then upheld Mr Hs complaint. She said 
that the evidence from the treating vet persuaded her that tail amputation was necessary for 
the health of Mr Hs dog. She considered that C&G should therefore cover the cost of 
treatment in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
C&G didnt agree with the investigators view. In the circumstances, the matter has been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to determine is whether C&G applied the terms of this pet insurance policy 
in a fair and reasonable manner in declining Mr Hs claim. Whilst this is a finely balanced 
decision, I dont consider that it did, and Ill explain why. In reaching this final decision, Ive 
considered the submissions of both parties as summarised below.
Mr H said that the familys dog had to have his tail amputated. The vet had told him it was 
the worst case of tail fold pyoderma he had ever seen and was starting to grow into the 
dogs rear. This meant that it was constantly infected and could no longer be managed by 
cleaning. The vet advised Mr H that he needed to have the tail amputated for the dogs 
health. Mr H said that the procedure wasnt therefore for cosmetic or elective reasons and 
considered that the policy would cover the cost. Mr H said he wouldnt have put the dog 
through such a traumatic operation for cosmetic reasons or if it wasn't absolutely necessary 
and to allow him to live a healthy life. Mr H said that hed paid for the top premium insurance 
to make sure he always covered in case events like this occurred, as he thought this type of 
dog could have health problems and he didnt want to have this worry of being unable to pay 
outright. He wanted C&G to honour the policy in the circumstances. As to the policy stating 
that tail docking wasnt covered, he thought that it was referring to tail docking for cosmetic 
reasons.
Mr H referred to the vets notes which referred to constant tail fold pyoderma constantly. He 
said he hadnt asked for the surgery. Hed asked the vet asked for his advice, and the advice 
was that the tail needed amputating, as there was nothing else that could be done. Hed 
already been trying to manage the problem with cleaning. Mr H supplied a letter from his vet 
dated November 2022 which confirmed that the condition was a very marked tail fold 
pyoderma. He confirmed to the insurers I can assure your company that [the dogs] surgery 
was strictly for clinical reasons...In a further letter, the vet referred to a very deep pyoderma 
(skin infection) and constant pain from a very irritated skin. He also confirmed that It was 
one of the most severe cases I had to operate on due to the distortion of his tail and how 
severely broken the skin had become. He also confirmed that the surgery wasnt suggested 
by the client.
The clinical notes recorded the following in August 2022; Has tail fold pyoderma constantly 
and owner managing with cleaning. Wants to book for amputation of tail for clinical reasons. 
The next relevant note states Still marked tail fold pyoderma. [Owner] wants to book for 
surgery asap. In September, the clinical notes record After tail amputated, exposed large 
are[a] of skin erythema/ulcerated skin. Finally, towards the end of September 2022, they 
note Skin healing well. Erythema/ulceration of skin improving greatly. [Owner] reports few 
accidents with faeces in the house. Normal anal sphincter tonus on exam, so most likely 
related to discomfort/local inflammation.
I now turn to C&Gs submissions in this matter. It said that the policy terms didnt provide 
cover for costs relating to tail docking or elective treatment. It explained that Mr H had a 14-
day cooling-off period at the beginning of the policy term during which hed been able to 
query or cancel the policy should any of the terms not meet his requirements. Having 
reviewed the claim and associated clinical history, C&G noted the condition from which the 
dog suffered and accepted that the vet had made it clear that Mr H wanted his tail to be 
amputated for clinical reasons. It noted a further visit to the vet who had noted that the owner 
wants to book for surgery asap. It said that prior to August 2022, there were no clinical 
entries confirming that the dog suffered from the relevant condition, nor evidence to confirm 
that attempts had been made to manage the condition. It said, no treatment options have 
been noted by the vet. It appreciated that the clinical notes observed Still marked tail fold 
pyoderma, and the word marked indicated something obvious or noticeable, this didnt 
confirm the length of time the pyoderma had been present.
C&G said that it hadnt been provided with evidence that this was a longstanding condition 
or that other treatments were unsuccessful, it said that it was unable to agree that this was a 
necessary operation and that it wasnt elective. It considered that the claim had been 
correctly declined in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. It considered that the 
evidence indicated that the dog hadnt been given medical treatment for the pyoderma prior 
to the amputation of his tail, and that this indicated that the surgery was elective.
C&G referred to the Code of Professional Conduct issued by the Royal College of Veterinary 
Surgeons which states that clinical records should include advice given and record plans for 
treatment and that a non-recorded conversation would be in breach of the Code. It said that 
insurers were required to review claims based on clinical records. It also maintained that the 
clinical records didnt mention pyoderma or the need for the tail to be amputated. Finally, it 
thought that it couldnt consider the claim as it hadnt been provided with any evidence to 
categorically state this was not an elective treatment.
Having considered the evidence and submissions, the reasoning for my decision is as 
follows. The starting point is the policy itself. I note that Mr H had paid for premium insurance. The policy excluded treatment as follows Any claim for cosmetic, elective, or 
routine treatment or any treatment which is preventive and not treating an illness or 
accidental injury. It also specifically excluded any claim for specific issues such as tail 
docking, even if required as the result of an accidental injury. Cosmetic and elective 
treatment was specifically highlighted in C&Gs insurance product information document. 
Finally, Illness is defined as any disease, sickness, infection or any change to your pets 
normal healthy state... Accidental Injury is separately defined.
Whilst C&Gs final response letter referred to both the elective surgery and tail docking 
exclusions, it indicated that it had declined Mr Hs claim primarily on the basis that it was 
elective surgery, as opposed to on the basis of the exclusion for tail docking. I consider this 
to be significant.
In this case, Im satisfied that the vet considered the amputation to be necessary to relieve 
an underlying condition being a marked pyoderma. This was not a case of tail docking for 
its own sake or tail docking due to accidental injury. Nor do I consider that the procedure 
was elective, bearing in mind its marked or obvious impact on health which, following 
surgery, exposed a large area of ulcerated skin. I consider that this demonstrated the 
seriousness of the underlying condition and necessity of the procedure.
The reason I consider this to be a finely balanced decision however is that tail docking at first 
appears to be excluded from cover, along with other procedures such as dealing with dew 
claws and ear crops. However, in the light of the additional wording even if required as the 
result of an accidental injury, I dont consider that tail docking in the case of an underlying 
illness was clearly and specifically excluded. I note that C&G didnt draw attention to this 
particular exclusion, or appear to heavily rely upon it in reaching its decision. In all the 
circumstances, I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable to now rely upon this 
apparent exclusion. 
Whilst C&G considered that the vets notes suggested an elective procedure due to the vets 
use of wording such as wants to book for amputation,  Im satisfied that the vet then made it 
clear that amputation was necessary for clinical reasons. His further letter of November 
2022 also made it explicit that the surgery was necessary for these reasons. Whilst there will 
be a degree of election in pet surgery as the ultimate decision will usually lie with the pet 
owner, I conclude that the procedure here was necessary for the health of the dog rather 
than being a purely elective procedure.
This is supported by the case note evidence with reference to an on-going condition. The 
records state; still marked tail fold pyoderma. Whilst the notes dont record that the vet had 
said that this was worst case of tail fold pyoderma he had ever seen and was starting to 
grow into the dogs rear, I wouldnt expect advice and discussions to clients to be verbatim 
records and the vet has since recorded this view in correspondence. Whilst I note the 
relevant extract from the relevant code of professional conduct, I consider the case notes to 
be sufficiently clear in recording the condition and the recommended action. 
I conclude that C&G hadnt fairly or reasonably applied the wording of the pet insurance 
policy to decline Mr Hs claim in this instance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and require Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to do the following: - 
- To settle Mr Hs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman