DRN-4183227
The complaint
Mr A complains that he hasnt been provided with the service he should have been in regard 
to the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with Oodle Financial Services 
Limited.
What happened
Mr A entered into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle FS in April 2022. He paid a £25,000 
deposit and was required to make 60 monthly repayments of around £990. At the time of 
acquisition, the car was almost 13 years old and had been driven over 63,000 miles. Mr A 
says that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and that it broke down at the end of 
September. Mr A complains that he wasnt provided with a hire car, had been making 
payments under his agreement even though he hadnt been able to use the car and hadnt 
been provided with the service he should have when dealing with Oodle FS. He said that the 
advisor he spoke with on three occasions was arrogant, demeaning, dismissive, rude and 
abusive.
Mr As complaint about the car not being of satisfactory quality is being dealt with separately. 
Provisional decisions have been issued in regard to this which include findings in regard to 
the refund of payments from when the car broke down. In response to the provisional 
decision the associated costs of storage were also raised, and these have been dealt with as 
part of the satisfactory quality complaint. Therefore, the issues that are being addressed in 
this complaint are Mr A not receiving a hire car and the conduct of the adviser Mr A spoke to 
when trying to resolve the issues with his car.  
Oodle FS issued a final response letter dated 27 January 2023 addressing the service 
issues raised and apologised for the way Mr A was spoken to on certain calls and said 
feedback had been provided. It also acknowledged that call backs didnt take place. 
Because of the service issues it awarded Mr A £300 compensation. In a final response letter 
dated 31 January 2023, Oodle FS said it didnt uphold Mr As complaint about not providing 
a hire car and did not consider that any compensation for distress and inconvenience was 
required. 
Our investigator listened to the calls and while she noted they could have been dealt with 
better she said that Oodle FS had apologised and, in this case, she didnt think it was 
required to do anything further.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. He said that after listening to the calls Oodle FS 
had accepted the conduct of its staff member was grossly unacceptable and that disciplinary 
action would be taken. Given this he said he should receive compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience he was caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As has been explained, Mr A raised a complaint about the car he acquired through a hire 
purchase agreement with Oodle FS not being of satisfactory quality which led to it breaking 
down. The issue regarding satisfactory quality is being dealt with separately and so I wont 
comment on that in this decision. As the complaint about the car being satisfactory quality 
also covers the issues regarding payments when the car wasnt able to be used and storage 
costs, these arent addressed in this decision.
I note Mr As comment about the breakdown experience and that his family was 
endangered. I am sorry to hear of this but as the issue of satisfactory quality and the 
associated issue of the car then breaking down has been considered in the separate 
decision, I havent considered this further. This decision is about the service Mr A received 
when raising his concerns about the car. 
I understand that Mr A was upset by the issues he was experiencing with his car and that he 
felt he wasnt receiving the service he should have been when raising these. Having listened 
to the calls Mr A has noted, I find that both parties could have handled the call better. 
Oodle FSs adviser did talk over Mr A at times and on occasions the tone wasnt what it 
should have been, but Mr A was very frustrated and didnt at times allow the adviser to 
speak. Oodle FS said in its final response letter that feedback had been provided and it also 
acknowledged that call backs hadnt been provided when they should have been. It awarded 
£300 compensation for the service issues raised. In this case I find that this is a reasonable 
outcome and I do not find that Oodle FS is required to do anything further in regard to this 
issue.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman