DRN-4252993
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) has failed to make 
her sufficiently aware of the charges that it was deducting from her pension savings. And 
she says the firm has acted unfairly by deducting transaction charges and advisor fees.
What happened
Mrs L holds pension savings with Standard Life. She receives annual statements on those 
savings from the firm that detail both the value of her pension savings and any charges or 
deductions that have been levied over the past year.
In June 2022 Mrs L was sent her annual statement. Mrs L thought that the charges shown 
on that statement were higher than in the past so she got in touch with Standard Life to ask 
for some more information. Standard Life told Mrs L that the deductions comprised fund 
management charges plus transaction charges. And it provided Mrs L with further 
information about the transaction charges that were applicable to each of the funds in which 
her pension savings were invested. Standard Life told Mrs L that although the statement 
showed an advisor charge being paid, this was actually a charge being levied due to the 
nature of the product she held and the investments she had made. She was told however 
that Standard Life stopped collecting that charge in August 2021.
Mrs L was unhappy with the information shed been given. In particular she noted that the 
charges information was inconsistent between her online statement and the annual 
statement shed been sent. She said that transaction charges had not previously been 
levied, and in fact Standard Life had said that she wouldnt pay any charges for buying or 
selling her investments. And she said that she had never used Standard Life, or any other 
advisor, to provide ongoing support for her pension investments.
Standard Life provided Mrs L with further information about the charges, and showed that 
the charges she had paid had actually reduced from those the year before. But Standard Life 
accepted that it hadnt explained the charges well enough, or in a timely manner. So it paid 
Mrs L £150 for the trouble and upset shed been caused. Mrs L remained unhappy with 
Standard Lifes explanation so brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators has looked at Mrs Ls complaint. He didnt think that the charges 
Standard Life had deducted had been inappropriate or out of line with its terms and 
conditions. And although he agreed that Standard Lifes communication about the charges 
could have been improved, he thought the compensation Mrs L had already been paid was 
sufficient. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs L didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs L and by Standard Life. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Businesses are expected by the regulator to ensure that they provide detailed information to 
consumers about any charges that they are paying on their pension investments. As time 
has gone on, the charges detail that has been disclosed has become greater. But that can 
sometimes lead to situations where conflicting, or confusing, information is provided as 
different reporting methods show information at different stages of development. And, as 
I will now go on to explain, that is what I think underpins Mrs Ls complaint.
The information that Standard Life has provided shows that the charges Mrs L paid on her 
pension savings actually fell when comparing 2020-21 to 2021-22. Most of that fall was due 
to the withdrawal, in August 2021 of the charges for being invested in the Standard Life 
Active Retirement Funds (shown on the statement misleadingly as advisor charges), but the 
overall fund administration charges also fell a little. But the breakdown of the fund 
administration charges shown in 2022 gave greater detail than in the past of what those 
charges comprised.
In particular Mrs L has highlighted a charge Standard Life described as being a transaction 
charge. That wasnt shown separately on her statements and so I can understand why its 
inclusion in Standard Lifes later explanations might have caused Mrs L some concerns. And 
the way in which that charge was set out for Mrs L caused further confusion. So I think it 
would be helpful here for me to provide my understanding of that charge, and why it doesnt 
contradict Standard Lifes statement that Mrs L wouldnt be charged for buying or selling her 
pension investments.
The funds in which Mrs Ls pension savings are invested are what are known as actively 
managed funds. In simple terms that means the investment managers responsible for those 
investment funds will pick individual investments (within agreed parameters) that they think 
will outperform other investments in the market. So, when each of those investments are 
combined, it is hoped that the overall fund will produce an enhanced return for investors that 
hold it. 
But in order to achieve that spread of investments, and to choose investments expected to 
outperform the market at any time, it is necessary for fund managers to regularly review, and 
alter, the underlying investments. Doing so naturally incurs dealing costs that act as 
something of a drag on the overall performance. So it seems right to me that, where 
possible, those costs should be detailed as part of the expenses of running the investment 
fund. These costs have always been a part of the expenses of the fund, it is just that they 
are now able to be shown separately.Standard Life has told Mrs L that the terms of her pension plan mean that she doesnt pay 
any fees for buying or selling investments. Standard Life offers consumers using its pension 
plan a large range of different investment funds into which their pension savings can be 
invested. And switches between those investment funds do not incur any dealing charges. 
But those charges are very different from the dealing costs incurred by the individual 
investment managers when running their funds. I dont see any contradiction between what 
Standard Life has told Mrs L about her transaction costs, and those incurred by the 
investment fund managers.
Standard Lifes Active Retirement products, that Mrs L was using, were designed for 
consumers who werent receiving support from a financial advisor. Those products attracted 
a service charge that Standard Life collected monthly from a consumers pension 
investments. It is those charges that were shown as advisor charges on Mrs Ls pension 
statement. Although I entirely accept that the labelling of that charge was misleading, I am 
satisfied that Standard Life had the right to collect it under the terms and conditions of 
Mrs Ls pension plan.
There is no doubt that Standard Lifes communications to Mrs L about the charges have 
fallen short of what it, and Mrs L, might reasonably expect. It seems that Standard Life 
acknowledges those deficiencies and is taking steps to address them. For example I have 
seen an internal Q&A document that it has prepared for its advisors so they can better 
answer consumers questions such as those posed by Mrs L. I accept that on later calls 
Mrs L says that Standard Lifes advisors still appeared to be unaware of that briefing 
document. But whilst that is disappointing, and no doubt something that Standard Life will be 
keen to correct, I dont think it means the information Standard Life has provided to us and 
Mrs L is untrue or inaccurate.
Mrs L has been caused some upset by the misleading communications, and no doubt been 
put to some inconvenience in needing to query matters with Standard Life. I think that the 
compensation that Standard Life paid to Mrs L at the outset of her complaint is reasonable in 
the circumstances here. And I am satisfied that the fees and charges Standard Life has set 
out on Mrs Ls statements are a fair reflection of the terms and conditions of her pension 
plan and the investments she holds. So, whilst I appreciate my decision will be disappointing 
for Mrs L, I dont think Standard Life needs to do anything further in relation to the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any further award against 
Standard Life Assurance Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman