DRN-2728815
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs R have travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account. Theyd 
booked a package holiday to Italy and they were due to travel to travel on 11 April 2020. 
However, as a result of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advising against all but 
essential travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs Rs trip was cancelled. So on 18 
March 2020, they made a claim on their travel insurance policy. Theyve told us Aviva 
acknowledged the claim.
A couple of weeks later, Mr and Mrs R got in touch with Aviva to chase up their claim. Aviva 
said it hadnt received their claim form, so Mr and Mrs R completed another one and sent it 
in. Following Mr R chasing Aviva for updates on the claim, it wrote to Mr and Mrs R on 24 
April 2020 to say that their claim settlement would be paid within three to five working days.
However, Aviva reviewed the claim again. And it wrote to Mr and Mrs R on 1 May 2020 to let 
them know that it wouldnt be settling it. It said the cancellation section of the policy only 
covered non-refundable losses, which a policyholder couldnt get back from elsewhere. It 
told Mr and Mrs R that as theyd booked a package holiday, their travel provider was liable to 
refund their full costs under the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements 
Regulations 2018 (PTR). So it said Mr and Mrs R would need to try and recover their 
cancellation costs through their travel provider.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with Avivas decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They felt that Aviva had offered to pay their claim and that they had accepted, 
which meant that Avivas decision not to settle their costs meant it was in breach of its 
contract with them. They also felt that Aviva had wasted around two months during which 
they couldve sought a refund from their travel provider. And they considered that Aviva 
should compensate them for the distress its handling of the claim had caused them. They let 
us know that their travel provider had refunded them the full amount of their claim.
Our investigator thought it had been fair for Aviva to turn down Mr and Mrs Rs claim, based 
on its policy terms. But she thought Aviva had had enough information upfront and during its 
calls with Mr R to be aware early on that Mr and Mrs Rs trip was a package holiday. So she 
thought it shouldve directed them to try and obtain a refund from their travel provider and 
avoided further delays. She also took into account Mr and Mrs Rs disappointment when 
they found out that their claim wouldnt be paid, despite having been informed that it would 
be. She felt that it would be fair for Aviva to pay Mr and Mrs £75 compensation to reflect the 
trouble and upset theyd been caused by its handling of their claim.
Aviva agreed with the investigators view and told us it would pay £75 into Mr and Mrs Rs 
account.
Mr and Mrs R didnt think the compensation was enough to reflect their wasted time, stress 
and anxiety. They said theyd made many calls to chase up progress, which werent 
returned. Theyd then had to spend a lot of time trying to get their travel provider to refund 
their costs. They maintained that Aviva was in breach of contract, as it had made them an 
offer, which theyd accepted, before reneging on that offer.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Avivas agreement to pay £75 to recognise the trouble and upset it 
caused Mr and Mrs R by its handling of their claim is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs policy, the circumstances of their claim and the 
information they were given by Aviva to decide if it handled the claim fairly.
Was it fair for Aviva to turn down the claim?
First, Ive carefully considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs policy because 
this forms the basis of their contract with Aviva. The cancellation section of the policy covers 
travel, accommodation and other excursion costs which a policyholder has paid out and 
cant get back if the FCO has advised against all but essential travel to their destination. So I 
think the claim would fall for consideration under this section of the policy.
But I also think the policy makes it clear that Aviva will only pay for costs that a policyholder 
cant get back from elsewhere. The policy includes a specific exclusion for costs which can 
be recovered from a policyholders travel or accommodation provider. So Ive thought about 
whether it was fair for Aviva to conclude that Mr and Mrs Rs trip was a package holiday and 
that they should be able to recover their costs from their travel provider.
Generally, a package holiday would be considered to be a holiday contract that includes two 
or more travel services, which are combined for the purposes of the same trip. The travel 
provider is liable for the performance of these services. Ive looked closely at Mr and Mrs Rs 
booking invoice. I can see that they booked their flights; accommodation and transfers 
through their provider. So I think it was fair for Aviva to treat the trip as a package holiday.
The PTR provide protection for consumers who buy package holidays. Effectively, they say 
that the travel provider is responsible for providing a full refund for holidays which cant be 
provided. On this basis, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down Mr and Mrs Rs claim 
because they hadnt tried to recover their cancellation costs from their travel provider in line 
with the PTR. Im pleased to learn that Mr and Mrs R have since been able to recover their 
costs from their travel provider.
Did Aviva handle the claim promptly and fairly?
Based on all Ive seen, I dont think Aviva did handle Mr and Mrs Rs claim as promptly as it 
could. I also think the way it handled the claim led to Mr and Mrs R suffering unnecessary 
additional trouble and upset on top of the inevitable upset of needing to make a cancellation 
claim.Aviva has sent us both its contact notes and recordings of its calls with Mr and Mrs R. I think 
that it had enough information from Mr R early on to be reasonably aware that theyd booked 
a package holiday. This means I also think its call handlers had an opportunity to direct Mr 
and Mrs R to their travel provider so that they could request a refund under the PTR. I 
appreciate Aviva experienced some delays in reviewing Mr and Mrs Rs claim forms, a) 
because it seems it mislaid the original copy and b) because of the delays caused by the 
number of claims it was receiving. But the claim form Mr and Mrs R sent in stated that their 
holiday had been a multi-centre holiday and they specified that itd included flights, hotels, 
transfers and some meals. So it shouldve been clear to the reviewer that the holiday was a 
package holiday and that Mr and Mrs R would need to approach their travel provider.
Instead, Aviva told Mr and Mrs R that their claim would be paid and specified the claims 
payment amount. So I dont doubt how upset and disappointed Mr and Mrs R mustve been 
when Aviva wrote to them around a week later to explain that the payment had been 
cancelled and that theyd need to approach their travel provider instead.
Ive borne in mind though information set out on the claim form. The first notice is 
immediately above the names of those making a claim and says Important in bold. This 
notice says:
IMPORTANT: If you are claiming for cancelling or cutting short your trip, you should
contact your travel agent, airline or tour operator in the first instance to try and obtain a
refund.
This information is repeated in section 3  Types of Cost, after policyholders are asked to list 
their irrecoverable costs. So I think Aviva took reasonable steps to make it clear that 
policyholders ought to try and recover their costs from their travel provider before making a 
cancellation claim.
I dont think Aviva handled the claim as promptly as it couldve done. I think it couldve told 
Mr and Mrs R that their claim wasnt covered a few weeks earlier than it did. This wouldve 
meant they wouldnt have understood their claim would be met or been delayed in pursuing 
their claim with their travel provider.
However, it doesnt seem to me that Mr and Mrs R have lost out financially as a result of 
Aviva incorrectly telling them their claim would be paid. I say that because they were able to 
recover the money from their travel provider. And also because, as Ive explained, I think it 
was reasonable for Aviva to direct Mr and Mrs R to make a claim under the PTR.
So in the round, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Rs position and the time theyve spent 
dealing with this matter, I think £75 is a fair award to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
theyve suffered as a result of the way Aviva handled their claim. Im pleased that Aviva 
agreed to pay this settlement and it should now make payment if it hasnt already done so. 
Based on all Ive seen, Im not telling Aviva to pay anything more.
  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs R £75 compensation if it hasnt already 
done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman