DRN-3861970
The complaint
Mrs C and Miss C complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc refuses to refund the money they lost 
to an investment scam. 
Mrs C and Miss C are represented by a third party but as Miss C had most of the dealings 
with Barclays, for ease of reading, Ill refer to her alone in this decision. 
What happened
Miss C has explained that in 2018 and 2019 she made payments from her Barclays account 
to fund what she thought was a legitimate investment with a company I shall in this decision 
call K. 
The relevant payments (scam payments) from Miss Cs Barclays current account were 
made by way of bank transfer and are listed below.
Payment 
number Date DescriptionAmount 
(£) Total (£)
1 01/08/2018 Transferwise £2,000 £2,000
2 01/08/2018 Transferwise £2,000 £4,000
3 21/03/2019 Transferwise £20,050 £24,050
4 21/03/2019 Transferwise £10,000 £34,050
5 22/03/2019 Transferwise £10,000 £44,050
6 23/04/2019 Transferwise £5,000 £49,050
7 23/04/2019 Transferwise £10,000 £59,050
Total £59,050 £59,050
Miss C got in touch with Barclays on 21 January 2021 to report shed been scammed. 
Barclays raised a claim with the beneficiary bank on the same day and in absence of a 
response, assumed no funds remained due to the length of time that had passed. Ultimately, 
Barclays didnt reimburse her. Remaining unhappy, Miss C referred her complaint about 
Barclays to this service. As our Investigator was unable to resolve the matter informally, the 
case has been passed to me for a decision. 
I note Miss C also made a payment from her credit card account with Barclays, for the 
avoidance of doubt, I am only dealing with the current account scam payments as part of this 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Prevention
Its common ground that Miss C authorised the scam payments in question here. She was 
tricked by scammers into instructing Barclays to make the payments. So although Miss C 
didnt intend the money to go to scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations and 
the terms and conditions of her account, Miss C is presumed liable for her loss in the first 
instance. 
Miss C didnt pay the scammers directly and instead sent the funds to her own Transferwise 
account, from there the funds were sent to the scammers. So I dont think the payee ought to 
have caused particular concern to Barclays. That said, taking into account the law, 
regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good industry practice, there 
are circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank to take additional steps or make 
additional checks before processing a payment to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud and scams. But there is a balance to be struck 
between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption 
to legitimate payments.
The first two payments
In terms of prevention, given the size of the first two scam payments and the general 
operation of Miss Cs account, Im not persuaded there would have been anything 
sufficiently suspicious about these transactions for Barclays to have been obliged to block 
the payments pending enquiries with Miss C before letting them through. The payments 
were being made to a legitimate payment institution and Ive noted Miss C made bank 
transfer payments for sums larger than the individual scam payments here, so despite Miss 
Cs suggestion that these payments should have warranted an intervention, I dont think 
Barclays ought to have reasonably suspected she may be the victim of fraud or a scam. 
Ive also noted Miss Cs comments about previously being the victim of a scam but from the 
evidence provided to our Investigator, Ive not seen that she notified Barclays of this until 
after all the scam payments were made. So, I dont find there was anything to warrant 
Barclays stopping the first two payments. 
The third payment
Barclays says the third payment (£20,050) was made in a Barclays branch and the notes 
recorded at the time also indicate this. Miss C states she did not make the payment in a 
branch. I dont need to make a finding about whether or not this payment was made in a 
branch as Im satisfied there was a conversation between Miss C and Barclays about the 
payment based on notes recorded at the time. Barclays adviser states they had a scams 
conversation with Miss C and she advised she was sending the money to her trader in 
Hungary. There are no further notes recorded about this conversation, so Im unable to 
determine whether a meaningful scam warning was provided. Given the size of the payment 
which was unusual for Miss C, I think there ought to have been some probing questions, 
along with a meaningful scam warning. So, Ive thought about how that conversation ought 
to have gone in light of Miss Cs testimony.  
I would have expected Barclays to query what it was Miss C was doing, who it was she was 
paying, how shed come across the investment, how long shed invested with the company, 
whether shed been able to access any money and whether shed carried out any due 
diligence checks. So Ive considered how Miss C wouldve responded to these questions. 
Firstly, I have no reason to doubt that Miss C would have fully explained what it was she was 
doing, so even though she was sending the payment to her own account with Transferwise, I 
think she would have likely explained that the payment was for investment purposes and she 
was sending the payment overseas from her Transferwise account. In Miss Cs testimony, she explained that she was proactively searching for an investment 
and took an online course offered by K. Miss C stated she was scammed before, so initially 
declined to open an account with K as she was suspicious. Miss C said when she started 
trading with K she was convinced her account was doing well and daily phone calls 
persuaded her to invest more. Miss C said she queried why she needed to send the money 
to different places and K convinced her this was needed for different trades. Miss C also 
queried why K was based in Switzerland when they initially stated their company was 
registered in Cyprus and they advised they had offices all over. Miss C followed up with 
further due diligence checks and saw that Ks parent company was based in Cyprus in line 
with Ks explanation. Miss C also said the rate of return promised was plausible. 
Its clear Miss C had her own concerns about investing with K and took steps to reassure 
herself that K was legitimate. I think if Barclays had directed Miss C to carry out her own 
checks and queried more about K, shed have likely explained shed carried out her own 
checks and had been trading with K for almost a year. 
I dont think Miss C expected instant access to her investment. I say this because she didnt 
notify Barclays to the scam until almost two years after her final payment (from her Barclays 
account). So even if Barclays had queried whether shed been able to withdraw funds from 
her investment, I dont think this was an immediate expectation of Miss Cs. 
There was also no credible adverse information available about K that would have 
concerned Barclays. I think K had built a level of trust with Miss C by the point of the third 
payment, that I dont think Barclays would have been concerned shed potentially fallen 
victim to a scam. Because of this, I dont think Barclays would have had cause to prevent 
Miss C from making the payment in accordance with her instruction. And Im satisfied any 
meaningful warning wouldnt have had an impact on Miss Cs decision to invest as shed 
already alleviated her initial concerns about K.
Payments four to seven
In light of payment three and the conversation that I think was likely to have happened, I 
dont think the remaining scam payments would have warranted any further checks by 
Barclays. I think Barclays would have satisfied itself at the point of the conversation at 
payment three that Miss C was not falling victim to a scam and so, wouldnt have paused 
further reasonable payments to the same payee. 
Payment four wasnt particularly unusual in light of payment three and by the point of 
payments five to seven, the payee was an established one and those payments were in 
keeping with what was normal account activity for Miss C. So I dont think any of the 
remaining payments warranted further intervention from Barclays. 
Recovery
Having decided the above, I could only uphold this complaint if I thought Barclays 
unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds (or some of them) and that this caused Miss C 
loss.
As these were push payments, the only potential avenue for recovery of the funds was 
through Barclays best endeavours, upon Miss C notifying it shed been scammed, to 
recover these payments from the beneficiary bank. However, its important to highlight that 
Miss C made the scam payments to her own Transferwise account for the purpose of 
moving the money on from that account. Sadly, Transferwise doesnt appear to have responded to Barclays request to recover the 
funds. But I dont think this makes a material difference as Ive explained already, the 
beneficiary here was Miss Cs own account, so its unlikely any of the scam payments would 
have remained in this account. There was also quite a delay between Miss Cs payments 
and her being able to notify Barclays shed been scammed, Im therefore not surprised 
Barclays was unfortunately unable to recover any funds. So I dont think I can say Barclays 
unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds or caused Miss C loss in this regard.
I appreciate Miss C has lost a substantial sum of money here and has asked for 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused by Barclays. But I find K rather than 
Barclays responsible for Miss Cs stress and inconvenience. For the reasons Ive explained, 
I do not think Barclays could have prevented or recovered the scam payments, so I make no 
award for compensation here. 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathy for Miss Cs loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman