DRN-2205212
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Premier Insurance Consultants Limited provided poor service when 
arranging a motor insurance policy and shouldnt have charged a cancellation fee.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P applied for a policy online through Premier on 6 October 2019. Mr P says he 
was asked to call Premier the next day to check through the details and was then asked to 
supply documents for him and Mrs P, to validate the policy. Mr and Mrs P had already paid 
the full premium, although the policy wasnt due to start until 28 October 2019. But as they 
thought the request for documents was excessive, they decided to cancel the policy. 
Mr P told us the premium refund wasnt provided for four weeks - and a £60 cancellation 
charge was deducted from it by Premier. When Mr and Mrs P complained, Premier said 
theyd agreed to its terms, including its cancellation charge. Mr and Mrs P disputed that, and 
they didnt think the charge was fair, as it amounted to almost 10% of the premium. 
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. He said Premier had acted in 
line with its terms and conditions. He said similar cancellation charges by brokers are 
common, to cover the work theyve done. He didnt think it was unreasonable or unusual for 
Premier to request the documents it did in order to validate the policy. And he said Premiers 
terms stated that a refund of premium could take up to eight weeks, as the money had to be 
returned to Premier by the insurer before it could be passed on to a consumer. 
Mr and Mrs P said it wasnt explained online that Premier would need the documents it later 
required - and that had it been explained, they wouldnt have gone ahead with the purchase. 
They said the policy wasnt valid without the documents, which were never supplied. They 
also said Premier didnt say initially that there would be a cancellation charge. They disputed 
that its terms were agreed at the point of sale and said the sum it charged was excessive. 
As the investigators view of the complaint didnt change, it was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common practice for brokers to ask for documents from consumers in order to validate a 
policy, and its often done after the policy has been set up online. I dont think Premier did 
anything wrong in asking Mr and Mrs P to supply the documents it needed. They would have 
confirmed the details already provided and ensured any future problems were avoided. 
In my opinion, Premier wasnt required to warn Mr and Mrs P in an online message that it 
would require standard documents from them. I think most consumers expect to be asked 
for evidence in support of their application for insurance. In my opinion Premier didnt make 
an unusual or unreasonable request. And its terms of business say the documents they were 
asked for may be required. 
We think its fair for a broker to charge a cancellation fee that reflects the work it has carried 
out. Premier set up the policy and then had to go through the cancellation process. The fee it 
charged is within the range of charges we think is reasonable. But we dont think its fair to 
make any charge at all unless a consumer has been made aware of it in advance.
Premier says Mr and Mrs P agreed to its terms and conditions at the point of sale  and that 
they would not have been able to proceed online had they not done so. But Mr and Mrs P 
say the businesss terms werent available at that point. Since then Premier has given us 
screen shots showing that consumers must tick a box online to confirm theyve read and 
agree to its terms of business before a payment can be taken. So I think Premier has shown 
that its terms were available to view when Mr and Mrs P bought the policy. Its charges are 
set out of the first page of its terms. 
Its not unusual when a broker sets up a policy prior to its start date to take the payment for it 
and pass it on to the relevant insurer. Although Mr and Mrs P had to wait almost four weeks 
to get the premium back, the terms and conditions explained that it might take up to eight 
weeks, and why, which I think was reasonable. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs P didnt think it was fair to be charged anything when the 
policy was cancelled before it began. But Premier provided a service to them as a broker 
nonetheless, and I think its shown that its charges were available for them to view at the 
point of sale. As I dont think Premier acted unreasonably, I cant uphold their complaint.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman