DRN-3896326
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC charged two monthly payments for a travel 
pack hed previously cancelled.
What happened
Mr G had a travel pack on his Barclays account for which he paid a subscription of £18 per 
month. Mr G cancelled the travel pack, but Barclays continued to charge the £18 
subscription amount to his account for the next two months. Mr G wasnt happy about this, 
so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Gs complaint. They apologised for charging the two payments of £18 
that they shouldnt have and reimbursed the two payments back to Mr Gs account. Mr G 
wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt Barclays should pay Mr G £25 
compensation for the trouble and upset hed incurred. Mr G didnt feel our investigators 
finding went far enough, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a business acknowledges that it made a mistake, as Barclays have done here, it 
would be expected by this service that the business would take the corrective action 
necessary to put its affected customer back into the financial position they should have been 
in, had the error not occurred. 
Im satisfied that Barclays have done that here. And I say this because Barclays have 
reimbursed the incorrectly taken £36 back to Mr Gs account.
However, while Barclays apologised in their response to Mr Gs complaint for what had 
happened, they didnt offer any compensation to Mr G in light of the inconvenience and 
upset this matter may have caused him. Although they did subsequently accept the 
recommendation put forwards by our investigator to pay such compensation to Mr G in 
recognition of the trouble and worry hed incurred at the amount of £25.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, and Im aware that Mr G is seeking a much 
higher compensation award here. But the £25 as recommended by our investigator, which 
Barclays have already agreed to, does feel fair to me, given the full circumstances of this 
complaint. As such, my final decision here will be that Barclays must pay that £25 
compensation amount to Mr G.
Mr G has explained that hes seeking compensation of at least £1,500 for Barclays 
incorrectly taking the two £18 payments as they did. But this requested amount seems 
grossly disproportionate to me in consideration of what actually happened, and I dont feel 
that Mr Gs expectations in this regard are reasonable or fair. 
I say this having considered the impact of what happened here on Mr G, including Mr Gs 
own testimony, but also having reviewed Mr Gs bank statements for the period in question, 
which Im satisfied dont indicate the kind of severe impact that may have led me to consider 
a compensation amount approaching what Mr G has requested. 
As such, Im satisfied that £25 compensation is a fair and reasonable amount here, given 
what happened  the incorrect taking of two £18 payments. And Im also satisfied that this 
£25 compensation amount is in alignment with the general framework by which this service 
considers compensation amounts for distress and inconvenience, further information about 
which can be found on this services website. 
All of which means that while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Gs favour, Ill only be 
doing so on the basis that Barclays must make a payment of £25 compensation to Mr G. I 
realise this might not be the outcome Mr G was wanting, but I trust that hell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £25 to Mr G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman