DRN-4346050
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that Accredited Insurance (Eurpoe) Ltd 
(Accredited) unfairly declined a vehicle damage claim following the theft of its vehicle.
Mr M, who is a director of M, brings the complaint on Ms behalf.  
What happened
M took out a Commercial Fleet Insurance Policy. In August 2022 Ms car was stolen and 
later recovered damaged, so it made a claim on its insurance. 
Accredited appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. M told the loss adjuster that the 
vehicle keys were left on the windowsill in the office. M accidently left the window open 
during the night and as a result the keys were stolen, and the vehicle taken. A couple of 
teenagers were later arrested and charged for the theft. Ms vehicle was recovered but it had 
sustained damage for which M made a claim on its policy.  
Accredited rejected Ms claim. They said M had failed to safeguard the vehicle. They relied 
on the reasonable care term in Ms policy which said that M must take all reasonable steps 
to protect its vehicle against loss or damage and maintain it in a safe and roadworthy 
condition.
M disagrees and believes Accredited has treated it unfairly. M would like Accredited to 
accept its claim.   
Our investigator recommended that Ms complaint should be upheld. He explained that 
Accredited needed to show that M had acted recklessly for it to rely on the reasonable care 
condition to reject Ms claim. In our investigators opinion, Accredited hadnt shown this, and 
he didnt think M had acted recklessly. He recommended that Accredited reassess M's claim 
in line with the remaining policy terms.  
Accredited disagreed with our investigator that the reasonable care term hasnt been applied 
fairly, so the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. 
Ive read and carefully considered everything M and Accredited have said. However, my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. 
There is no dispute the theft of the vehicle took place. The general condition Accredited have 
relied on in Ms policy says:
H. Care of your vehicle
You must take all reasonable steps to protect your vehicle against loss or damage 
and maintain it in a safe and roadworthy condition
Accredited argues that the window was open and the keys were left in an area which was 
visible from outside, therefore reasonable steps were not taken to safeguard the vehicle. 
M has confirmed that it was normal practise for the keys to be left on the windowsill in the 
office. On a warm day, the window is usually open during the day and the last person leaving 
the office would close it. On this particular day the window was accidently left open 
overnight. 
In order to apply an exclusion for reasonable care, an insurer has to, in effect, prove a 
policyholder has been reckless. The test for recklessness was laid down by the Court of 
Appeal in the case of Sofi v Prudential.
In this case, I dont think Accredited has shown recklessness. I say this because Im satisfied 
M accidently left the window open overnight which was a mistake, I dont think it made a 
conscious decision to leave it open.  
Our investigator told Accredited that M said the window was locked in position and couldnt 
be opened any further and also that the keys were out of reach. Accredited said that this 
information hadnt been given to the loss adjuster when investigating the claim but in any 
event, they hadnt accepted Ms explanation or changed their stance on the claim. Ive 
considered this, but I dont think it matters whether the window was locked in position or not 
because its not in dispute that the window was left open by M which resulted in the keys 
being obtained by the thieves.
Putting things right
Given the reasons above, I dont think M acted recklessly and because of this, I dont 
think Accredited was fair to apply the reasonable care condition to Ms claim. 
To put things right, I think Accredited should now reassess Ms claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms complaint against Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman