DRN-3840944
The complaint
Mr S complains about Nationwide Building Societys handling of an ISA transfer.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr S instructed a transfer of an ISA from Nationwide to another business. He 
asked for £27,500 to be transferred, as the maximum he could transfer into the ISA for that 
year. The transfer was refused though, so Mr S spoke to Nationwide and the other business 
involved to try to see what had happened.
Nationwide said that the other business instructed the transfer and that it did so for a total of 
£47,500  which exceeded the relevant amounts that could be transferred. So Nationwide 
declined the transfer on that basis. The other business maintained that it instructed a 
transfer for £27,500 and says it contacted Nationwide about this. The other business said 
that Nationwide agreed that the problems were because of issues with its systems.
Mr S complained about both businesses, but they maintained their positions that neither had 
done anything wrong. So Mr S brought his complaints to this service. One of our 
investigators considered this complaint against Nationwide and felt that it had likely 
misinterpreted the transfer instruction from the other business and that the information 
provided by that business showed what Mr S wanted to do. They said that it was most likely 
that a processing or technical error with Nationwide led to the problems Mr S faced here. 
Our investigator recommended that Nationwide paid £175 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr S here. Mr S accepted this but Nationwide didnt respond, despite our service 
asking for a response a few times. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I note that Nationwide hasnt provided a response to our investigators 
findings. That means Ive decided this case based on the information that I already have on 
the file. Our investigator explained what the evidence from the other business showed, but 
Nationwide hasnt disputed this or provided any evidence to the contrary in response.
Based on what we do have, I agree that the evidence here does support that the instruction 
from the other business was intended to transfer the £27,500 that Mr S wanted to. It may 
well be that this was received by Nationwide and interpreted in a different way by them. But 
we have no clear evidence to support how that was received by Nationwide on its systems, 
or to show why this would have been a fair interpretation in the circumstances. Nor has 
Nationwide responded to our investigators findings that this was likely an unfair 
interpretation of the instruction.
So, based on the evidence I do have here, I think this supports that its more likely than not 
that Nationwide interpreted the instruction in a way that caused an unfair outcome for Mr S in 
the individual circumstances of his complaint.
In these circumstances, I think its fair that Nationwide compensates Mr S for the distress 
and inconvenience its caused here. Mr S has been confused by this situation and has 
clearly been frustrated when trying to get answers. Nationwide has already paid £50 for 
issues with its communication  but taking into account what Ive said elsewhere in this 
decision, I agree with our investigator that an extra £175 is fair in the circumstances and I 
note that Mr S is happy with this too. So its this that Nationwide should pay Mr S.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr S £175 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman