DRN-3070660
The complaint
Mr D says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to him irresponsibly. He says the 
business kept lending to him even though he paid the loans early. He thinks this wasnt right. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about eight loans Mr Lender provided to Mr D between July 2016 and 
March 2020. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in the table 
below. The loans were due to be repaid monthly. 
loandate 
startedamount instalments date repaid
1 21/07/2016 £300 4 05/11/2016
2 30/12/2016 £300 3 28/04/2017
3 16/07/2017 £500 6 07/11/2017
4 27/11/2017 £350 6 01/01/2018
5 20/02/2018 £400 6 24/02/2018
6 24/02/2018 £250 3 28/04/2018
7 31/05/2018 £1,000 12 12/06/2018
significant break in lending
8 20/03/2020 £1,000 12 25/02/2021
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint.  He thought that Mr Lender had done enough 
before it approved loans 1 to 4 and loan 8. But he thought that proportionate checks 
wouldve shown that Mr D was having problems managing his money for loan 5. And for 
loans 6 and 7 it looked likely that Mr D was reliant on the lending. 
After some correspondence Mr Lender agreed with what the adjudicator said. It made an 
offer to pay compensation on this basis. 
Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. In particular he said that the was borrowing 
significant amounts at the time he took loans 3 and 4. This should have raised red flags with 
Mr Lender and it shouldnt have lent. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Mr Lender accepted our adjudicators opinion about loans 5 to 7. I agree that Mr Lender 
should pay compensation for these loans and I think the offer it has made is reasonable. Ive 
included it in my putting things right section below. I wont consider these loans in detail. 
They are something I will take into account when considering the other loans, he took. For 
completeness, Ive included what Mr Lender has already agreed to do below. 
Ill consider loans 1 to 4 and loan 8 in more detail below. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mr D provided when he completed his applications for 
these loans. Mr D said he had a monthly income of between around £1,500 to £1,750. He 
had regular monthly expenditure of between around £1,000 and £1,250. 
Loan 8 was taken a significant time after loan 7 had ended so it was reasonable for Mr 
Lender to think that his circumstances had improved. At this point in time he declared an 
income of around £2,000 with an expenditure of £1,250. 
The repayments to all of these loans varied but they were generally between £100 and £200 
a month. So, having looked at all of this information I think it wouldve been reasonable for 
Mr Lender to think that these loans were affordable for Mr D. 
The crux of Mr Ds objection to the lending is that he feels Mr Lender should have made 
more in-depth checks. Had it done this, it wouldve seen he was in financial difficulty due to 
his other short term and high cost loans. But given the amounts borrowed compared to his 
declared income, it was early in the initial lending relationship (or at an early point after a 
long lending break), I dont think its reasonable to say Mr Lender should have looked into his 
finances in more detail than it did. I also havent seen any further information that shows its likely Mr Lender was made aware 
of any financial problems Mr D mightve been having at the time. Or anything that wouldve 
prompted it to investigate his circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Mr 
Lender to rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Mr Lender did for loans 1 to 4 
and loan 8 were proportionate. And I think its decision to lend for these loans was 
reasonable. Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint about them. 
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not approved loans 5 to 7. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr D may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr D in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mr Lender shouldnt have given Mr D loans 5 to 7.
A) Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr D 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should pay Mr D the total of A plus B.
D) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Ds credit file in 
relation to loan 5. The overall pattern of Mr Ds borrowing for loans 6 and 7 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from 
Mr Ds credit file. If Mr Lender has sold any of the loans Mr Lender should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax Mr Lender has deducted, if he ask for 
one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ds complaint.
PDL Finance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman