DRN-2547589
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited incorrectly told her she 
wouldnt have to pay her excess when she made a claim under his car insurance policy. 
All reference to the insurer Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Miss W was unfortunately involved in an incident with another vehicle. She reported the 
incident to her insurer, Advantage. Advantage settled Miss Ws claim as a total loss and paid 
a settlement sum to the finance company for Miss Ws car. 
Advantage incorrectly told Miss W that it wouldnt deduct the excess from the settlement as it 
was a non-fault claim. But it did. Miss W complained to Advantage. She wanted it to honour 
what it told her and pay the excess to the finance company, thereby reducing the balance 
she owed.
In October 2020 Advantage apologised for incorrectly advising Miss W that the excess 
wasnt due, as it was. For its error, it made a final offer to Miss W of £75 compensation. It 
said the third party was still disputing liability, so it continued to work to settle the claim in 
Miss Ws favour. 
Miss W remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator explained that under the policy Miss W has with Advantage, the excess was 
correctly owed irrespective of fault when she made a claim. Since bringing her complaint to 
us, the claim has since been settled as a non-fault claim. The investigator explained that 
Miss W can now look to recover the excess from the third party insurer (TPI). 
Miss W didnt agree. In summary she says if Advantage had given her correct information 
about the excess, this would have been relied on as evidence. But because Advantages 
error is in her favour, we have dismissed the error and this isnt just. 
Miss W says the claim has been settled as a non-fault claim as she knew it would be - and 
so the TPI should have met the costs of the excess. Because they didnt, she has had to set 
up an arrears plan with the finance company for the balance owed and this has impacted her 
credit file, which she says will be impacted for life. Miss W says she hasnt received any 
compensation from Advantage.
So Miss W wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive no doubt that being involved in an incident is an upsetting and stressful experience. 
What Ive considered is how the insurer in their role dealt with the claim, whether this was 
reasonable and in line with the policy. And where things went wrong, if the insurer did 
enough to put things right. 
Ive taken an impartial and even handed approach to the information provided by both 
Advantage and Miss W. 
Miss Ws policy with Advantage isnt unusual in that it says an excess is payable as the first 
part of any claim. As Miss Ws claim was settled as a total loss, Advantage paid a settlement 
sum to the finance company, having an insurable interest in the car. 
The finance agreement Miss W has is separate to her insurance contract with Advantage. 
Advantage met its obligation to settle the claim when it paid the finance company.
I understand how strongly Miss W feels about the error Advantage made when it told her it 
wouldnt deduct the excess from the settlement sum. Theres no dispute that the information 
Miss W was given was incorrect. She says that instead of owing the finance company a 
balance of £66.47, she owed a balance of £640 more. She said she didnt have the funds to 
pay this and so had to set up an arrears plan with the finance company.
However, the policy is the contract between Advantage and Miss W. And so this is the 
agreement we would expect Advantage to abide by. And this says that Miss W owes the 
excess of £640 in the event of a claim. This is irrespective of fault. But where a claim is 
eventually settled as a non-fault claim, the non-fault party can then look to recover the costs 
of the excess from the at fault party. Sometimes if a third party admits fault from the outset, 
an insurer can decide to waive the excess. But that wasnt the case here as the third party 
initially disputed liability
I can understand the upset Miss W felt when Advantage deducted the excess when it told 
her it wouldnt. I think that Advantages error meant it failed to manage Miss Ws 
expectations. For the distress and inconvenience this caused, we would expect Advantage 
to compensate Miss W. In this case, I think the compensation of £75 it offered and its 
apology is fair and reasonable for the loss of expectation. 
I understand how disappointed Miss W is with Advantages handling of her claim. But I think 
Miss W was always responsible for the balance due to the finance company in her 
circumstances. And I think Advantage correctly deducted the excess from the settlement 
sum it paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I think the compensation 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited has offered of £75 is fair and reasonable to resolve 
Miss Ws complaint. 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Miss W accepts my final decision (if it hasnt already paid it). If it pays 
later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Geraldine NewboldOmbudsman