DRN-2145669
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R (the complainants) say Brewin Dolphin Limited (Brewin) did, mainly, as 
follows:
Mishandled a request, in February 2019, to remit £3,000 from their investment 
account to Mr Rs bank account. [issue 1]
Conducted a bed and ISA transaction in their daughters account, contrary to a 
longstanding family instruction against such a transaction. [issue 2]
Mismanaged their portfolio by failing to sell holdings in Carillion, Vodafone and 
Hammerson over the course of 12 to 18 months during which they continued to lose 
value; this was done contrary to a previous downward trend in the share prices for 
these holdings and the foreseeability of their continuing loss of value. [issue 3]
Proceeded with a meeting at their home, and to their surprise and inconvenience, 
contrary to Mr Rs express instruction to postpone the meeting. [issue 4]
Mr R leads the complaint. The complainants claim a refund of management fees and 
compensation for investment losses, based on the above issues.
What happened
Brewin disputes the complaint, but Mr R considers that it has not properly addressed the 
relevant issues. The matter was referred to this service and was considered by one of our 
investigators. In the main, she concluded as follows:
There is a lack of evidence to sustain issue 1  that is, a lack of evidence that Mr R 
expressed dissatisfaction at the time about any delay in the remittance  and without 
such evidence it cannot be meaningfully determined.
Issue 2 is beyond the remit of the complaint, as presented by the complainants, 
because it relates to their daughters account, to a matter arising from that account 
and to an account that is not jointly held by either of the complainants; so it would be 
for her to pursue the matter individually if she wishes, but it cannot be considered as 
part of the present complaint.
With regards to issue 3, Brewin had a discretionary management role over the 
portfolio; there is no evidence that it acted in anyway (in terms of management of the 
portfolio, its high risk profile, its objectives or its contents) to breach the agreed 
mandate for that role; its responsibility was towards the portfolio as a whole (not 
individual holdings in isolation) and in the absence of a breach of its mandate the 
performances of the highlighted holdings are not enough to conclude that it 
mismanaged the portfolio.
Evidence supports Mr Rs claim about a postponement in issue 4, but evidence also 
shows that further discussions happened in this respect and Brewin then gave him 
notice that it will be continuing with the relevant meeting  which Mr R does not 
appear to have received prior to the meeting  so it acted reasonably by providing 
such notice.
The complainants disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
the main, they said:
The investigator has misstated that they seek compensation for financial losses  in 
response, the investigator referred to content within their complaint submissions 
which expressly sought such compensation.
They chose not to complain about issue 1 at the relevant time because they put it 
down to human error; they have no evidence on the issue; but it remains the case 
that they expressed dissatisfaction about the matter so Brewin cannot claim to be 
unaware of that expression  in response, the investigator repeated that there 
remained a lack of evidence on the matter, that she enquired into telephone 
recordings related to it but Brewin had none to provide and that she does not have 
enough information or evidence to reach a meaningful conclusion on the matter.
It is unclear why issue 2 cannot be treated as part of the complaint  in response, the 
investigator explained that the complainants jointly held their investment account so 
matters arising in this respect can be addressed, but they are not joint holders of their 
daughters account so matters arising from her account are separate and are beyond 
the present complaint.
With regards to issue 3, they have no complaint about the portfolios risk profile or its 
equities contents or compliance with its objectives, the complaint is that Brewins 
inaction in response to poor performances of the three holdings (and foreseeability of 
those performances) was unreasonable, especially as there is evidence of Brewin 
being proactive towards selling another holding in comparable circumstances  in 
response, the investigator retained her initial view on the matter and commented that 
speculation applies to the complainants idea of how Brewin should have reacted to 
the performances of the three holdings; this service does not assess investment 
performance; so we would not make assumptions about the prospect of performance 
recoveries at the time.
Brewin was given no cause to believe the meeting in issue 4 would proceed and     
Mr R made it clear that it should be postponed; the meeting was pointless given that 
its subject matter depended on a response from Brewins Client Services Team 
which was still outstanding at the time; and if Brewin believed the postponement had 
been rescinded the account manager ought to have sought clarification from Mr R, 
but that did not happen  in response, the investigator maintained her finding on this 
issue.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Issue 1
This issue was raised in Mr Rs complaint letter to Brewin in July 2019 but, as the 
investigator said, there is no evidence that it was raised as a complaint around February 
2019 when the alleged incident occurred. This creates a problem in terms of determining the 
present claim that Brewin committed a wrongdoing in the matter, because there is no 
evidence of the matter being raised in those terms at the time and no evidence of the 
circumstances relevant to it  other than evidence of the remittance process itself, which falls 
short of illustrating the allegation that it was mishandled.
Even if I accept that Mr Rs telephone conversation with Brewin at the time included 
reference to a form of dissatisfaction about a delay, two key points arise  firstly, there is no 
evidence of a financial loss arising from the alleged delay; and, secondly, consideration of compensation for trouble and upset caused by the alleged service failure lacks evidence that 
a service failure was actually committed and, given the absence of a complaint at the time, 
such consideration also lacks sufficient evidence of any meaningful trouble and upset 
experienced by the complainants.
Overall and on balance, I agree with the investigators conclusion that there is insufficient 
evidence and information to properly determine this issue.
Issue 2
For the reasons given by the investigator  which I endorse and incorporate into this 
decision  issue 2 is beyond the present complaint and/or beyond this services remit in 
addressing the present complaint.
Issue 3
I understand Mr Rs arguments on this issue and I consider that they have been made 
sincerely, with conviction and with acknowledgement of Brewins discretionary management 
role over the portfolio. He has helpfully clarified that the following are not in dispute:
Brewins responsibility for the discretionary management of the portfolio as a whole.
Brewins management of the portfolio in line with the agreed mandate  in terms of 
the portfolios objectives, its high-risk profile and its components.
The crux of the complaint in this issue appears to be the allegation that Brewin applied poor 
judgement in the management of the three cited holdings  which it ought not to have done, 
which no reasonably minded discretionary portfolio manager would have done and which, as 
a result, was negligent and unreasonable on its part. I do not say that the complainants have 
presented their claim in this precise fashion, but I consider that this is essentially the sum of 
the submissions they have made on the matter.
Of course, a discretionary management arrangement does not automatically give a portfolio 
manager unfettered freedom to manage the relevant investments. The opposite is commonly 
the case, whereby the portfolio managers discretion is qualified and defined (and sometimes 
even limited) by the mandate agreed with the portfolios owner(s). It is for this reason that the 
investigators treatment of this issue made references to the mandate for the complainants 
portfolio and references to the lack of evidence that Brewin did anything to breach that 
mandate.
The mandate for the portfolio is a key element of the context in which any alleged 
unreasonableness or negligence should be considered. An important observation in this 
respect relates to analysis evidence that Mr R has highlighted and to the wider evidence 
about the prospects of the three holdings around the time he says action should have been 
taken  all of which he says Brewin should have used to foresee continuing future problems 
for the relevant companies and should have used as a basis to sell the holdings (and reduce 
exposure to the risk of such problems).
The type of risk management that can reasonably be expected for a portfolio with a 
mandated high-risk profile would not be the same as the type of risk management to be 
expected where the mandate features a different and lower (or more cautious) risk profile. 
The complainants portfolio had an agreed high-risk profile. This means the notion of high-
risk speculations about the prospects of the three holdings during the period in question 
would not have been inconsistent with the mandate for the portfolio. In hindsight, the outcome for the holdings is known. However, at the relevant time the 
outcome was unknown. The markets cannot be predicted with certainty, so even in the face 
of analysis and wider evidence that Mr R says made a particular outcome more likely (than 
not), it remains the case that the outcome could not have been predicted with certainty at the 
time. Whilst a cautious approach could have been to liquidate the holdings, Brewin was not 
obliged to use such an approach given that the portfolio had a high-risk profile and given that 
its responsibility was not limited to the three holdings in isolation but was based on the 
portfolio as a whole.
It appears that the holdings were retained on a speculative basis and I acknowledge the 
complainants discontent with this. However, overall and on balance it was not unreasonable 
or negligent for Brewin to have taken such an approach with their portfolio given that the 
approach matched its high risk profile; and given evidence that the portfolio as a whole 
continued to be managed positively (and was around 3% ahead of its benchmark after the 
12 to 18 months that has been cited). Mr R argues that Brewin took a cautious approach 
towards the liquidation of a particular holding in comparable circumstances. I am not 
persuaded that this establishes a case for issue 3. The point remains that it was within 
Brewins mandated discretion to retain the three holdings, on a speculative basis, as it did.
Issue 4
For the reasons given by the investigator  which I endorse and incorporate into this 
decision  I do not uphold the complaint about this issue. A misunderstanding appears to 
have occurred whereby Brewin believed the idea of postponing the meeting had been 
reversed and, as such, its official attended the meeting. Mr R makes a fair point that if this 
was Brewins understanding it ought to have verified it with him, but that appears to be 
exactly what Brewin did by sending him notice that the meeting would be proceeding. 
Unfortunately, he did not receive the notice prior to the meeting, but had he done so his 
response would have provided such verification. I do not consider that Brewin conducted 
itself wrongly in this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Rs and Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman