DRN-3113287
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC sold him an unsuitable investment in a stocks 
and shares ISA.
What happened
In 2001 Mr R visited a Barclays branch to deposit a cheque and remembers being asked if 
he wanted to speak to someone about investing the money. He says he was advised to 
invest £7,000 in a fund within an ISA, and in 2003 he surrendered the investment and 
received around £4,500. 
In 2020 he spoke to a claims management company (CMC) about the investment and they 
raised a complaint with Barclays on Mr Rs behalf. The CMC said that at the time of the 
advice Mr R had recently received compensation from an accident and was still receiving 
treatment for his injuries. Hed also recently started a new job, so they said it was too soon to 
have advised him to invest so much, and he was advised to take an unsuitable amount of 
risk. Barclays replied, explaining that there was no evidence any advice was given, and Mr R 
had signed a declaration confirming he hadnt been given advice, so they didnt uphold that 
part of his complaint. However, they offered £100 for delays in dealing with his complaint.    
As Mr R remembers being given advice, he brought his complaint to our service. He 
remembers speaking to a member of staff in a meeting room in branch, who told him that he 
would receive a higher return if he invested his money, rather than putting it in his bank 
account. He remembers the adviser highlighting the positives and giving him marketing 
material about the ISA. He says the adviser completed most of the application form and he 
merely signed it. 
Mr R says he wasnt asked how he planned to use the funds, or what his attitude to risk was. 
He says the adviser didnt adequately explain the level of risk involved, or that there were 
other products which would have been more suitable. Had he been asked, he would have 
invested some of the money in a low to medium risk product, and the rest in an account 
without any risk. At the time, he believed that the adviser was acting for him and was giving 
him advice that was in his best interests.
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and found that there wasnt enough 
evidence to conclude, on balance, that advice had been given. Mr R remained unhappy and 
maintained that he remembered being told the investment was a good opportunity. As no 
agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons.
Mr R has provided detailed submissions setting out his recollections of events, which Ive 
considered carefully. As his recollections contradict what Barclays has said happened, I 
need to decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened, based on the balance 
of probabilities. 
I must take into account the fact the sale happened more than 20 years ago, and that 
recollections can fade over time. I dont doubt that Mr R sat down with a member of staff in 
branch  what I need to decide is whether there is enough evidence to conclude that the 
discussion amounted to regulated advice. Theres no documentary evidence that supports 
any advice having been given to Mr R, and usually when advice is given, there would be a 
variety of documents setting out the details of the discussion and the advice given. 
Mr Rs recollections support the idea that no personal advice was given. Hes said himself 
that there was no discussion of his objectives, or attitude to risk, which are staples of the 
advice process. The only document we have from the sale is the application form. Directly 
above Mr Rs signature, it states in bold: I understand that I am making this investment 
without advice.  
Id like to clarify for Mr R, that promoting an investment, including giving general information 
about the merits of putting his money to work in an investment as opposed to a bank 
account, is a separate and distinct activity from giving a personal recommendation to invest. 
There are rules that firms have to follow when giving regulated advice  but they are limited 
to when firms make a personal recommendation for a specific investment. I acknowledge 
that Mr R may have felt encouraged by Barclays to invest  but that isnt the same as being 
given personalised advice. 
When thinking about whats fair and reasonable here, Ive thought carefully about what Mr R 
remembers being told about the benefits of the investment and whether his recollections 
show a personal recommendation was given. As set out above I think its fair to say that his 
recollections support the idea that no regulated advice was given. When coupled with the 
other evidence, particularly the clear declaration he signed, on balance I dont think Mr R 
was given personal advice to invest  or that Barclays unfairly gave him the impression that 
they were giving a personalised recommendation.  
Though I dont think advice was given, Barclays was still required to ensure that the 
information they gave Mr R was clear, fair and not misleading  and that he had enough 
information to be able to make his own decision about whether the particular investment was 
right for him. Mr R has confirmed that he was given marketing material in the meeting  
though he says he didnt take this home. However, I think its likely hed have been sent 
documents after the sale once the investment had been made  even if he didnt take any 
home from the meeting. If he wasnt clear about how the investment worked, or if he had 
questions, he could have asked Barclays, or sought independent advice.  
Unfortunately, Barclays has confirmed they no longer have any of the documents that Mr R 
would have seen at the time of the sale, other than the application form. So, I dont know 
how they would have described the features of the investment or the level of risk involved. 
Mr R has said the adviser focused on the benefits of investing, telling him it was a good 
product and the best thing for him to invest it. Im mindful of the time that has passed  and 
that I am not able to take into account all of the information hed have seen. In order to fairly 
say Barclays had done something wrong, Id need further documentary evidence of the 
information he was given, that shows it was promoted in an unclear or misleading way. 
Without that, I dont think Mr Rs recollections alone are enough to say that Barclays misled 
him about the potential performance of the investment. In summary, I think its more likely than not that this was a non-advised sale, and so I dont 
think Barclays are responsible for the suitability of the advice. Though I think there is enough 
to say Barclays promoted the idea of this type of investment to him, I think its likely they did 
so in a fair and reasonable way, especially because they were clear about the fact advice 
wasnt being given. I dont think it would be fair to say Barclays gave him unclear or 
misleading information about the ISA. Overall, Im satisfied that Mr R made his own decision 
to invest and so it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to hold Barclays responsible for the 
consequences of that investment. 
I note Barclays has made an offer to pay Mr R £100 in relation to the delay in dealing with 
his complaint. Mr R has made no submissions about this to our service. If he now wishes to 
accept this offer, he should contact Barclays directly.
   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman