DRN-2042436
The complaint
Mr M has complained, via a claims management company (CMC), that Lloyds Bank Plc 
(Lloyds) mis-sold him fee-paying Select, Silver, Gold, Platinum and Club Lloyds Platinum 
packaged bank accounts.
Hes given a number of reasons why he believes the accounts were mis-sold including that 
he wasnt given information about the account charges. He says he never really wanted or 
understood a packaged bank account. He says that he didnt register or use any of the 
benefits the accounts provided  which is proof that they exceeded his needs.
What happened
Lloyds said that our service is unable to consider Mr Ms complaint about the sale of the 
Select, Silver, Gold and the first Platinum account, because it said hed complained too late 
about them. Our adjudicator considered what Lloyds and Mr M had said and they agreed 
hed complained too late about those packaged accounts.
The CMC accepted the adjudicators view, so an adjudicator then assessed Mr Ms 
complaint about the sale of the Club Lloyds Platinum account, which was sold to Mr M in 
2015. They concluded that it had not been mis-sold.
The CMC disagreed with the adjudicators findings about the sale of the Club Lloyds 
Platinum account. So the complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
As all parties have agreed that our service is unable to consider the complaint about the 
earlier packaged accounts, this decision will only address whether the Club Lloyds Platinum 
account, sold in 2015, was mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website. And Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having done so I dont 
think the Club Lloyds Platinum account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
When the account was sold to Mr M in 2015, Mr M had held a fee-free account since 2011. 
And Mr M had held a variety of packaged bank accounts prior to the fee-free account too. 
The application form that Lloyds has provided also indicates that the Mr M was made aware 
of the monthly fee for the account and that other accounts were available, including ones 
without monthly fees. Therefore Im satisfied that when Mr M agreed to upgrade his account 
to the Club Lloyds Platinum package, he likely did so with the knowledge that fee-free 
accounts were available and that it was an optional upgrade. So I think overall Mr M was 
given a fair choice.
Mr M says that the account was recommended to him. But Lloyds says it was a non-advised 
sale. Looking through the application forms, they do say that Lloyds had not given Mr M any 
advice and that the account was essentially chosen by Mr M. But I can also see that Mr Ms 
banking and insurance needs were discussed in some detail and that the varying levels of 
cover provided by the Silver and Platinum accounts were discussed with him. Given this, I 
can see why Mr M felt that the Platinum account had been recommended to him, on account 
that it suited his needs. However, even if I thought that the account was sold on an advised 
basis, I still dont think it was mis-sold.   
At the time, the Platinum account cost £17 per month (the Club Lloyds bolt-on was free 
providing Mr M met the fee-waiver criteria) and provided worldwide family travel insurance, 
mobile phone insurance and breakdown cover. It also included other benefits, such as 
preferential debit card charges on foreign transactions, up to £300 interest and fee-free 
overdraft benefit, plus lower interest rates on balances overdrawn by more than that amount. 
At the time it was sold to him, I understand Mr M was occasionally travelling abroad, drove a 
vehicle and had a mobile phone. I understand that Mr M also had a planned overdraft limit in 
place too. And it looks like Mr M would also have been able to benefit from the features 
provided by the Club Lloyds bolt-on too  for example I can see he chose to receive cinema 
tickets. Given all of this I think that recommending the Club Lloyds Platinum account to Mr M 
was not unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr M has said that the benefits on the Platinum account exceeded his needs. But the sales 
documentation state that Mr M chose the Platinum package over the cheaper Silver package 
because it provided better levels of breakdown cover. So I cant conclude that the Platinum 
package did exceed his needs.
As well as making sure it was right for him, Lloyds also had to provide Mr M with the 
important information about the account, so that he could decide for himself if it was worth 
having.
Mr M has said that he didnt really understand what a packaged account was or what he was 
agreeing to. However, as hed held a number of packaged accounts prior to 2015, I think by 
2015 he did understand what a packaged account was. 
Mr M has also said that he didnt register or use any benefits provided by the account. But 
Lloyds has provided evidence to show that Mr M registered phones and submitted multiple 
claims on the mobile phone insurance provided by the Club Lloyds Platinum account. This 
clearly shows that Mr M was given at least some information about the benefits during the 
sale, given that he knew how to register his handsets and who to contact to make a claim.
Mr M says he didnt have a need for all of the benefits provided by the account. But as it was 
sold as a package, Mr M was unable to pick and choose what it came with. It does seem 
however, that Mr M was told how much the account would cost, including the extra amount 
the Club Lloyds bolt-on would cost if he didnt meet the fee-waiver criteria. And although 
cheaper accounts were available, the sales documents suggest that both the Silver and 
Platinum accounts were discussed with Mr M (both of which he could have with the Club 
Lloyds bolt-on) and Mr M chose the latter. So I cant reasonably conclude that Mr M was 
somehow misled into thinking that the Club Lloyds Platinum account was his only fee-paying 
option.
I cant say for sure if Mr M was presented with all of the important information about the 
account - although the sales documentation does suggest it was. But looking at Mr Ms 
circumstances, Ive not seen anything that makes me think he wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to the account had he been given more information about it.Therefore, I dont think the Club Lloyds Platinum account was mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think the Club Lloyds Platinum account was 
mis-sold. I therefore do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman