DRN-2869557
The complaint
Mr W complains about an entry Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) made on his 
credit file. 
What happened
Mr W applied online to open a savings account with Nationwide. Mr W then discovered a 
note on his credit file saying Victim of Impersonation so he complained to Nationwide as he 
wanted this removed. Nationwide responded and said, as part of the account opening 
process, they carry out various checks, one of these being to ensure the person opening the 
account is in fact who they say they are. They said, this is to prevent members being victims 
of various types of scams or fraudulent activity, such as impersonation. Nationwide said, as 
Mr W opened the account online, they need him to present identification face to face in one 
of their branches, providing proof of name and proof of address. They said, once these have 
been provided and satisfied, they will then be able to remove the information held on Mr Ws 
credit file and the account can then be opened.
Mr W explained to Nationwide hes disabled and was also shielding due to Covid-19. 
Nationwide then agreed to Mr W sending the identification documents by email. Mr W sent 
this and Nationwide then removed the marker on Mr Ws credit file. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W. He thought Nationwide hadnt acted unfairly in 
making the entry on Mr Ws credit file. Mr W disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr W will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
I should say at the outset that this service doesnt have power to require a business to 
change its processes. Or to direct what documents it should require in seeking to verify a 
customers identification. I can see Mr W applies online to open a savings account with 
Nationwide. Nationwide say they had a query relating to some information provided by Mr W 
so they decided further identification was needed which is why they asked Mr W to 
present this at the branch. Nationwide say they are well within their rights to ask for 
additional identification to ensure the person who is opening an account is the person they 
say they are.    
I understand that it can be inconvenient to be asked to provide additional information. But I 
dont find that Nationwide did anything wrong in requiring Mr W to verify his identity before 
allowing him to open the account. Its in all our interests that security checks are enforced to 
reduce the likelihood of someone using another persons identity to open an account. 
I can see Nationwide had concerns Mr Ws identity was being impersonated so they file an 
entry on the Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System (Cifas). They file a record for Victim 
of Impersonation which is intended to protect the innocent victim  in this case Mr W - from 
being further impersonated. It also allows Cifas members the option to contact
the innocent party when they receive an application in their name, in order to confirm a 
genuine application. So, I do wish to reassure Mr W that the Cifas entry isnt an allegation 
that he has carried out any fraudulent activity  instead, its a process designed to protect 
him should someone try to make an application using his details. 
That said, I do understand why this worried Mr W. Entries on his credit file make reference to 
ID fraud so I acknowledge why this upset Mr W given that he was the customer who applied 
for the account and not someone impersonating him. But, Nationwide didnt know that at the 
time and thats why they asked for identification documents. While this meant the Cifas 
marker remained on Mr Ws credit file until he provided identification documents, I cant say 
Nationwide acted unreasonably here. 
I can see Mr W feels Nationwide have breached the Equality Act 2010 and also failed to put 
in place reasonable adjustments for him. I think Nationwide did make reasonable 
adjustments for Mr W here to help with the account opening. I can see they initially ask for 
identification documents to be brought into branch but when Mr W explains his reasons for 
being unable to do this, they accept the documents by email. At this point they remove the 
Cifas marker and also confirm to Mr W that he can proceed with the opening of the account. 
In summary, I understand why the information on Mr Ws credit file worried him but this was 
to protect Mr W given Nationwides concern. So, I cant say Nationwide made an error here.       
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman