DRN-2082119
The complaint
Mr D has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account called a Plus account. He paid a monthly fee for the account and received several 
potential benefits in return. 
What happened
Mr D has banked with HSBC for quite a long time. In 2002, he opened a fee-free account 
and in August 2008, HSBC sold him the Plus account. He changed back to a fee-free 
account during 2019.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator originally 
thought that HSBC had treated Mr D fairly, but after further investigation agreed with Mr D 
that HSBC had mis-sold him the Plus account and recommended that it should refund him 
all the fees he paid for the account, plus interest. 
HSBC didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
the case again. So, it has come to me to review.
(While Mr D held the Plus account, HSBC changed its name to an Advance account. It also
changed the circumstances under which customers would have to pay fees. However, for
simplicity and consistency, I have used the term Plus throughout this decision).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Ds case. Ive looked
into everything that Mr D and HSBC have told us or sent us about the case, and Ive decided 
to uphold it. Ill explain why.
During our investigation into this case, there has been some confusion about how HSBC 
came to sell the Plus account to Mr D. HSBC originally said that it didnt know how it made 
the sale, but more recently it has told us that it has found some records from 2008 which it 
says show that it did so during a meeting at one of its branches. On our questionnaire, Mr D 
said he bought the account over the phone call; but as the records which HSBC has found 
recently seem to date from the time in question, I think they are probably correct, so I have 
assumed that HSBC sold the account during a meeting at one of its branches. 
In 2008, HSBC (along with other banks), was allowed to sell packaged bank accounts in two 
ways. It could do so on an information-only (or non-advised) basis or as an advised (or 
recommended) sale. In both situations, it had to tell customers about an accounts costs and 
benefits clearly and fairly and give them a choice about buying it; and in an advised sale it 
also had to check if an account was a reasonable match for a customers needs and 
circumstances. 
HSBC has told us that in 2008 when it sold packaged bank accounts through its branches, it 
usually did so on an information-only basis, and in this case, I accept that it probably didnt 
make a personal recommendation, so I have assessed this complaint as a non-advised sale. 
HSBC has told us that it sold the Plus account to Mr D fairly, that it gave him a choice and 
that he bought it because he wanted some of its benefits. 
At the time, the benefits included non-banking features such as worldwide travel insurance 
and banking features such as rebates of some interest on HSBC credit cards, and better 
interest rates on some type of savings than HSBC usually offered to customers with fee-free 
accounts. 
Mr D has told us that HSBC led him to believe that it was withdrawing his fee-free account 
and that he had to change accounts. Hes said that he never travelled abroad, and that 
HSBC didnt tell him about any of the banking benefits. Hes said that he never wanted or 
needed the account and wouldnt have paid the frees if he knew he could have kept his fee-
free account. 
 
Firstly, I should clarify that in 2008, HSBC wasnt withdrawing fee-free accounts from its 
customers and nor has it done so since. Along with several other banks, it has continued to 
offer them. But the crux of Mr Ds complaint is that HSBC led him to believe he could no 
longer have such an account. 
Obviously, I cant tell what HSBC said or didnt say to Mr D during the meeting, so I have 
considered the evidence that I do have, including what I know about Mr Ds circumstances in 
2008, to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
HSBC has accepted that Mr D never travelled abroad. However, it has pointed out that he 
could have claimed on the travel insurance in the UK and may have wanted the account for 
this protection. However, I think this is unlikely. Mr D did travel in the UK, but I dont think he 
did so with sufficient frequency to make him want to pay the monthly fees for insurance 
cover in the UK. I dont think he would have wanted this benefit if HSBC had explained it to 
him clearly.
In recent correspondence, HSBC has also pointed out that around three months after it sold 
the Plus account to Mr D, it gave him a rebate of interest on his credit card of just under ten 
pounds. It thinks this could have been an additional feature that was attractive to him. 
However, at that time, the normal monthly fees for the account were over twelve pounds. So, 
I doubt that the possibility of rebates on this scale were sufficient to make Mr D want to pay 
the monthly fees. 
HSBC has also pointed out that later on, Mr D gained some extra interest on his savings 
through having the account, and I accept that this may well have been true. However, as 
with the rebates on Mr Ds credit card, I doubt that in 2008 these possible savings looked 
likely to be either certain enough or large enough for Mr D to want to buy the Plus account 
for them. 
I have also considered the other benefits of the Plus account in 2008 to see if there were any 
which Mr D would have found particularly attractive for his lifestyle and financial situation, but 
I havent found any. Furthermore, as the Plus account came as a package, Ive also 
considered if its likely that Mr D would have found the total range and mix of benefits 
attractive, even though he didnt have a significant need for any of them individually; but I 
think this is unlikely.So, if HSBC had explained things properly to Mr D, and given him a clear choice, I can see 
no reason why he would have wanted to switch accounts and pay the monthly fees for the 
Plus account rather than receive the banking services he wanted from a fee-free account. 
Its now well over a decade since HSBC sold the Plus account to Mr D, and I cant tell for 
sure what HSBC got wrong. It may have misled him about the benefits, or it may have failed 
to make that it clear that he still had a choice, or it may have done both, or it may have done 
something else, but I think its highly unlikely HSBC met all of its obligations to Mr D when it 
sold him the account. Had it done so, then I think he would have kept his fee-free account. 
In correspondence with us, HSBC has pointed out that after 2008, it sent Mr D several
documents about the Plus account. I fully accept that it did this. However, by that time HSBC
had already sold the account to Mr D, and I dont think these documents rectified the
mistakes HSBC made earlier. Similarly, it has also mentioned that shortly after it sold the 
Plus account to Mr D it added a car breakdown service to the benefits. Again, I accept this to 
be true, but as it happened after Mr D already had the account, I dont think its particularly 
relevant to the way HSBC sold it to him. 
So, in summary, it seems to me that there were some significant failings in the way HSBC 
sold the Plus account to Mr D and Im satisfied that in his case they amount to mis-selling. It 
follows that HSBC should put things right for Mr D by paying him appropriate compensation.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr D, HSBC should return him to the financial position he would have
been in if it had never sold him the Plus account.
HSBC should therefore:
refund Mr D all the fees he has paid for the Plus account, including the renamed and 
restructured account,
add interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the 
date Mr D paid the fee until the date it makes the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if he asks for one.
If HSBC can show that Mr D gained financially from the banking benefits that came with the
Plus account (such as the credit card rebates), then it may deduct the relevant amount from
the compensation it works out as above. If it chooses to do this, then it must set out its
calculation clearly and simply for Mr D, so he can follow what it has done.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am upholding Mr Ds complaint about HSBC UK 
Bank Plc. It should now put things right for him by paying the compensation I have described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman