DRN-2874740
The complaint
 Mrs P complains Gresham Insurance Company Limited (Gresham) declined her contents 
insurance claim after her flat was broken into.
What happened
  While Mrs P was out her flat was broken into. She called the police and was given a Crime 
Reference Number and police and forensics officers attended her address. The police 
advised she changed her lock. Mrs P called a locksmith who advised while her front door 
wasnt obviously damaged the lock looked as though it may have been tampered with. Inside 
Mrs Ps flat her bedroom door, which had been locked, was forced open and the door frame 
was broken having been pulled off the wall. Mrs P thinks the thief or thieves may have 
gained access to the communal areas of her building when a cleaner entered.
Inside Mrs Ps bedroom she had £600 in cash and approximately $150 Canadian dollars 
which was taken, along with her birth certificate which was with the money.  
Mrs P contacted Gresham who said they wouldnt cover the loss as there was no evidence 
of force or damage to the front door of her flat. Gresham also wouldnt cover the cost of 
replacing her lock as they said this should be covered by the building insurance.
Mrs P complained to our service and our investigator upheld her complaint. Gresham 
disagreed with this and requested the case be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I am very sorry she has experienced her home being broken into, which must have been a 
deeply distressing event.  
Both Gresham and Mrs P agree her flat was broken into, Gresham arent querying the 
veracity of the claim, but rather whether it is covered by Mrs Ps policy. And both Gresham 
and Mrs P agree her locked bedroom door was broken, and Gresham dont dispute her birth 
certificate, $150 CAD and £600 GBP were stolen. 
The key element in question is whether Mrs Ps policy covers her loss  when there was no 
obvious sign of damage to her front door. Gresham says not  unless someone has broken 
into or out of the home by using force and violence or has got into the home by deception.
First I have thought about whether deception was used to gain entry to Mrs Ps flat. As Mrs P 
was not home when her flat was broken into, she wasnt the victim of deception. However 
we dont know how the thief or thieves gained access to the building itself. They may have 
used deception, or they may have got inside by another means. We cannot know. Next I 
have turned my attention to whether force was used to gain entry to Mrs Ps home. 
Ive considered a judgment by the court on  what was force and violence in the context of 
entering somewhere without violence but using violence as the person or persons moved 
about inside. I think it would be helpful here to quote what the judge in this case said about 
forced and violent entry;
 that by the words actual forcible and violent entry it was intended to mean an entry 
effected by the exercise of force in a manner that was not customary in order to overcome 
the resistance of the usual fastenings and protections in the premises. If a person turns a 
key he uses force but not violence. If he uses a skeleton key, he uses force but not violence. 
If on the other hand instead of using a key he uses a pick-lock, or some other instrument, or 
a piece of wire, by which as a lever he forces back the lock, it appears to me that he uses 
force and violence, and in the present case both force and violence were used.
I think there are some very strong similarities here to the theft from Mrs Ps flat. We know 
someone used her front door to enter the flat, even if there were no signs of violence. To 
open the front door they would have had to turn or push the handle and pushed the door to 
open it. This would have left no marks or damage, but is force. Therefore, I am satisfied 
force was used to enter Mrs Ps property. We cant say whether violence was used on the 
front door as we cant say whether or not a wire or skeleton key or similar was used.
However I am satisfied force and violence were used to enter Mrs Ps bedroom as there is 
clear evidence of this from the broken door frame which has come off the wall. 
Given force was used to enter the property and both force and violence used while the 
intruder/s were inside I agree with our investigator and uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Gresham also refused to pay for a replacement lock for Mrs Ps front door as they said this 
should be covered by the buildings insurance, however the buildings insurance is provided 
by the freeholder and doesnt cover individual front doors. I think Gresham should cover this 
as it part of Mrs Ps property and the inner workings of the lock would not have been 
accessible from outside the property without deliberate use or force or violence as outlined 
above.
   
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint for the reasons outlined above. 
Gresham Insurance Company Limited should reimburse her for the cost of the new lock and 
locksmith call out fees, for the theft of the money inside the bedroom (£600 and $150 CAD) 
using the exchange rate on the day of the theft and the cost of replacing her birth certificate 
in addition to the cost of repairing the damage caused to the bedroom door and doorframe.
I also think Gresham should provide a distress and inconvenience payment of £100 in 
recognition of the difficulties Mrs P has encountered bringing this claim
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2021.
 
Sarah Scott
Ombudsman