DRN-2839436
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc closed her accounts. She feels that shes been 
treated unfairly.
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs S paid in a cheque to cover a water bill for £232.17. However, when 
the cheque was paid in the cashier recorded the amount as £232.18.
Mrs S wrote a letter of complaint to the bank about the lack of accuracy. Lloyds 
acknowledged that it had made an error and paid Mrs S £30.01 to apologise.
Mrs S visited the branch in March 2020 to pay in funds. Whilst in the branch, Mrs S was 
approached by the manager, who asked to speak to Mrs S privately. The manager told Mrs 
S that she wanted to discuss the letter of complaint that Mrs S had written, because she felt 
that it contained unacceptable language. The discussion became heated and the manager 
told Mrs S not to visit the branch again.
The following day, Mrs S found that she was unable to use her bank card. She later 
discovered that it had been blocked. Mrs S later received a letter from Lloyds saying that 
following the incident in the branch it was closing her accounts.
Mrs S made a further complaint to Lloyds about the incident in the branch and about her 
accounts being closed.
Lloyds investigated and said that whilst it remained of the view that an incident of abuse had 
occurred which allowed it to close Mrs Ss account without notice, it hadnt intended to close 
the account without giving notice of one month. It acknowledged that as a result of the block 
on the accounts, Mrs S hadnt been able to access her accounts for around 2 weeks. To 
apologise, Lloyds paid Mrs S £400 for distress and inconvenience, £30 to cover call costs, 
£20 to cover travel expenses and £13 to cover deprivation of funds.
Mrs S remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator said she understood how upsetting the incident had been for Mrs S but felt 
that Lloyds hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably, and that it had closed the accounts in line 
with the terms and conditions.
Mrs S didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S doesnt think that Lloyds treated her fairly when it closed her accounts. She disputes 
Lloyds version of events surrounding the incident in branch and doesnt think that the 
language she used in her letter of complaint was inappropriate.
Ive looked at Mrs Ss letter of complaint. In doing so, Im not going to repeat the relevant 
extracts from the letter in this decision. However, having read the letter, I can see that some 
of the words used relate to the physical appearance of a member of the banks staff. I 
appreciate that Mrs S has said that she didnt intend to cause any offence. However, I think 
Mrs S ought reasonably to have known that making comments about someone personal and 
physical appearance was likely to cause offence and upset. So, I understand why the branch 
manager felt that the language was inappropriate and tried to discuss this with Mrs S.
Theres a dispute between Mrs S and Lloyds as to what happened when the manager spoke 
with Mrs S in branch. Because I wasnt present, I cant be certain of who said what. Its not in 
dispute that the discussion became heated and Mrs S was asked to leave the branch.
Lloyds has explained that the rationale behind its decision to close the accounts was due to 
the incident which took place in branch. Ive thought about whether Lloyds acted fairly in 
reaching that decision. In doing so, Ive had regard to the terms and conditions of the 
account. These say that Lloyds can close an account provided that it does so in a manner 
which is reasonable in the circumstances. In certain circumstances, the terms and conditions 
allow accounts to be closed without notice. This includes circumstances where a customer 
has behaved improperly.
Its not possible for me to say, based on the available information, whether Mrs S behaved 
improperly during the incident in branch. But as Ive already said, I think some of the 
language used on Mrs Ss letter could be considered to be offensive. Ultimately, it is Lloyds 
decision to close an account if it thinks a customer has behaved improperly. Further, Lloyds 
can close an account  with notice  if it wants to. 
I can see that in this case that although Lloyds gave Mrs S notice of its intention to close her 
accounts, it also placed a block on her accounts which meant that she wasnt able to operate 
them during the notice period. Lloyds has acknowledged that it shouldnt have done this and 
has paid compensation to Mrs S, which I think is a fair and reasonable resolution to this 
aspect of the complaint. 
Based on everything Ive seen, and whilst I appreciate that Mrs S found the closure of her 
accounts upsetting, Im unable to say that Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably. So, I 
wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman