DRN-4225976
The complaint
Mr D and Ms M are unhappy with how Astrenska Insurance Limited (Collinson) handled their 
claim. 
What happened
Mr D and Ms M had an annual travel insurance policy underwritten by Collinson, a trading 
name of Astrenska. Unfortunately, they had to cancel a planned holiday due to serious ill 
health. So they made a claim on their policy. 
Collinson accepted the claim and agreed to settle. But Mr D and Ms M were unhappy with 
how the claim had been handled. They said it had taken too long to settle the claim and they 
had concerns about the process and the customer service they received during their claim 
journey. So they complained. 
Collinson acknowledged there had been failings and paid Mr D and Ms M £70 
compensation. They remained unhappy so they brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think the compensation did 
enough to put things right. She upheld the complaint and recommend Collinson pay an 
additional £100 compensation to recognise the impact of the delay and poor customer 
service. 
Mr D and Ms M said they agreed with the outcome, although they felt the award was a small 
punishment for Collinson and didnt put right the impact, time, and distress theyd been 
through. 
Collinson didnt reply. So the case was passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Collinson has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. This means Collinson 
must progress claims in a timely manner and not cause any unnecessary or avoidable 
delays.
Mr D and Ms M made their claim on 13 September 2022 and the claim was settled on 30 
November 2022. I understand why Mr D and Ms M wanted their claim to be settled as 
quickly as possible, but overall, I dont think two and a half months is unreasonable. An 
insurer needs time to review the claim and can request further evidence if necessary. 
However, I think Collinson would have been able to settle this claim sooner if theyd been 
better with their communication. They should have clearly set out the information they 
needed when the claim was first submitted. Mr D and Ms M were already going through a 
difficult time, and I think Collinsons poor claims handling exacerbated this. Its clear that 
Collinsons lack of communication and requests for the same documentation caused upset 
to Mr D and Ms M. 
They have explained the importance of the claims processing being hassle free and without 
delay during such a hard time in their lives, and I dont think thats an unreasonable 
expectation in the circumstances. Mr D and Ms M shouldve been able to contact their 
insurer by phone and their calls shouldve been answered in a timely manner, instead of 
waiting in an unreasonable call queue. 
Collinson said that their service levels were affected due to a surge in claims and calls 
around this time. But that it isnt Mr D and Ms Ms fault. Collinson couldve managed their 
expectations regarding the claims journey and timescales better. Had Collinson provided 
better communication and meaningful updates, I think additional stress and inconvenience 
for Mr D and Ms M wouldve been avoided. 
For the reasons set out above, I dont think the £70 compensation already paid by Collinson 
is enough to reflect the additional stress they caused to Mr D and Ms M at an already difficult 
time. I think a total of £170 fairly acknowledges the inconvenience and upset the claims 
process caused Mr D and Ms M.
I note the comments that this compensation award doesnt feel like a big enough punishment 
for Collinson. But our role isnt to punish a business for their wrongdoing. If we find there has 
been a failing, we ensure the business takes reasonable action to compensate their 
customer for the impact of that failing. 
Mr D and Ms M asked that Collinson review their claims process for large claims prompted 
by a serious medical condition, because they dont think the process is fit for purpose. 
Although this isnt something we can ask them to do, Collinson did say theyd provide 
feedback to the relevant areas to try and avoid similar issues. I think this is reasonable, 
alongside the compensation Ive set out above. 
Putting things right
Astrenska Insurance Limited (Collinson) needs to put things right by: 
Paying Mr D and Ms M an additional £100 compensation for the poor claims handling 
and communication during the claims process and the additional distress this 
caused. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and direct Astrenska Insurance Limited (Collinson) to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman