DRN-4191030
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) settlement 
of their claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K made a claim in September 2019, against the policy for some stolen jewellery. 
Following our services involvement RSA was instructed to settle the claim. However, Mr and 
Mrs K referred a further complaint to our service because of the way they said RSA were 
attempting to settle the claim. 
In particular, Mr and Mrs K said that RSA had capped the limit of some jewellery sets to 
£10,000 and they felt that the delay in settling the claim had meant that they had lost out on 
the full value of the items. 
Mr and Mrs K asked for RSA to reconsider the settlement it offered. But as RSA would not, 
they referred this new complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be partially upheld. 
She said that RSA were fair to limit the jewellery sets to the policy limit for unspecified 
jewellery. And that it was fair to consider the jewellery sets as sets and not individual pieces. 
But she said that the delay in paying the claim meant that Mr and Mrs K were without the 
settlement longer than they shouldve been. So, she recommended that RSA pay interest at 
eight percent from 13 May 2020 until 24 August 2022 (the date the settlement was made), a 
total of 248 days. 
Mr and Mrs K accepted the view. RSA did not. It said that when the original complaint was 
dealt with and the decision was upheld by our service, the ombudsman did not include any 
recommendation for interest to be paid. It said that it then reconsidered the claim and made 
the offers. If interest was to be recommended, our service ought to have recommended this 
on the original complaint. It was now unfair to effectively, retrospectively add interest. So, it 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will partially uphold this complaint. And I hope my findings explain why I 
think this is fair. 
There are two main issues of this complaint the first relates to the policy limit on unspecified 
items. The second relates to the amount of interest that RSA has been recommended to 
pay, as Mr and Mrs K were without the settlement longer than they shouldve been.
Dealing with the first issue. I have looked at the policy terms and conditions and it states that 
for unspecified items, there is a policy limit of £10,000. It seems that some of the jewellery 
which are described as sets, exceeded this limit. 
Mr and Mrs K said that the jewellery shouldnt have been considered as sets and should be 
considered as individual pieces. And had they been considered as individual pieces, then 
they would come within the policy limit. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ks comments as they themselves referred to the jewellery 
as sets and purchased them as sets. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to have 
considered them as sets. And as there was a policy limit in place, I dont think RSA were 
unfair to follow the terms and conditions of the policy and apply the limit to those unspecified 
items. 
Ive next considered the second issue of complaint relating to the recommended interest. 
RSA said that when the original complaint that had been with our service was resolved, the 
ombudsman failed to award interest at that time. So, it was unfair for our service to 
recommend interest now. Ive had a thought about this, and I do think that we are able to 
consider interest now. And Ill explain why.
My colleague directed RSA to reassess the claim  not to settle it. There was the potential 
that such a reassessment of the claim might not have led to settlement. However, RSA has 
now settled the claim  albeit sometime after it ought reasonably to have done so. Therefore, 
I find its reasonable for RSA to now pay Mr and Mrs K interest to recognise the time they 
were without access to money they were entitled to.
The next issue that Ive considered is whether we should award interest, which includes the 
period when we were considering the previous decision. I think we can because, as Ive 
said, we are saying that RSA should have dealt with the claim differently from what it did 
initially. And if RSA had assessed the claim fairly, Mr and Mrs K wouldve received indemnity 
then. 
With this in mind, Ive looked at whether it is fair to recommend the interest award from 13 
May 2020. I think it is, so Ill explain why. 
Ive already explained the reason behind not awarding interest on the previous decision. To 
reiterate, it was because we told RSA to reconsider the claim. It did so and decided that the 
claim should be paid. But, had RSA reviewed the claim earlier in the way it shouldve done, a 
reasonable offer wouldve been made much sooner. 
So, having reviewed the dates, Mr and Mrs K originally submitted the claim to RSA on 7 
September 2019. RSA took around 248 days (after we had told it to reconsider the claim 
from the final decision). So, its reasonable to assume that RSA would have taken 248 days 
to review the claim.
The next step would be to backdate the 248 days, from the date that Mr and Mrs K logged 
the claim with RSA. Because, if things had gone as they should, and RSA didnt unfairly 
decline the claim, it would have likely taken RSA 248 days to make an acceptable offer. So, 
248 days from 7 September 2019 (the date the claim was logged) is 13 May 2020. But I 
should make it clear that the interest calculation ought to be based on the settlement figure 
that RSA arrived at in 2019, rather than 2022. In other words, RSA should calculate the 
settlement based off the 2019 value and then add 8% interest from May 2020 onwards. Consequently, Mr and Mrs K wouldve likely had the benefit from this date, which is why 
interest ought to be payable from this date. And as I think RSA made a reasonable offer on 
24 August 2022, the interest should be limited to this end date. 
So, taking everything into account, as RSA were unreasonable to decline the claim and 
delayed Mr and Mrs K in receiving the settlement, Mr and Mrs K had lost the benefit of 
having the settlement sooner. As a result, I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Putting things right
I direct RSA to put things right, as I set out below. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and direct Royal and 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs K 8% simple interest, from 13 May 2020, until the settlement offer was 
made on 24 August 2022, based on the 2019 settlement figure.
If Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs K how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs K a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman