DRN-3932440
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the service provided by Fresh Start UK Debt Management Ltd and 
the advice to take out and retain a Debt Management Plan (DMP).
 
What happened
In 2006 a business Ill call P arranged a DMP for Mrs C in respect of debts in her name. P 
later went into administration and Fresh Start took over responsibility for providing debt 
advice and administration to Mrs C. 
In 2019 Mrs Cs account was passed to Fresh Start after P went out of business. Fresh Start 
completed annual reviews of Mrs Cs circumstances and financial position. In August 2019 
Fresh Start assessed Mrs Cs circumstances and advised her to consider bankruptcy but 
she chose to let the DMP remain in place. Similar advice was given in 2020, 2021 and 2022 
but Mrs C didnt proceed in line with Fresh Starts recommendations. During the annual 
reviews, Mrs C provided information about serious health problems she suffers with and 
gave Fresh Start consent to record the details on its system. 
Last year, a family member acting on Mrs Cs behalf complained to Fresh Start about the 
advice to take out a DMP in 2006 and maintain it in the years that followed. Fresh Start 
issued a final response and explained that the original advice to enter a DMP had been 
given by P in 2006. Fresh Start said it wasnt responsible for the advice given by P. Fresh 
Start said it had carried out reviews of Mrs Cs circumstances each year from 2019 and 
recommended other suitable solutions for dealing with the debts each time. But Mrs C didnt 
proceed with the advice provided and continued to make payments towards the DMP. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Cs complaint. They thought Fresh Start had 
dealt with Mrs Cs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mrs Cs 
representative asked to appeal and asked whether there was recourse to hold Fresh Start 
liable for the advice provided by P in 2006. The representative also said Fresh Start had 
continued to make money from Mrs C despite being aware shes vulnerable. As Mrs Cs 
representative asked to appeal, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I understand Mrs Cs representative feels the advice to proceed with a DMP in 2006 was 
wrong for her circumstances. I take their point, but Fresh Start has only provided debt advice 
to Mrs C since 2019, after P went into administration. Weve asked Fresh Start to confirm the 
basis on which it took over from P. And its confirmed that it didnt assume liability for advice 
given by P before it went out of business. 
We recently contacted Fresh Start to get a copy of the reassignment documentation 
completed when DMPs were transferred from P to Fresh Start. I wont quote the full details 
here as theyre commercially sensitive. But the information provided shows Fresh Start didnt 
take on liability for the original DMP advice provided by P to Mrs C in 2006. Im very sorry to 
disappoint Mrs C but Fresh Start isnt responsible for the advice given by P. And that means 
we arent able to award compensation on the basis of the advice P gave in 2006 and 
subsequent years. 
Mrs Cs representative has told us she thinks the DMP was the wrong solution for their 
circumstances. From 2019, Fresh Start completed reviews of Mrs Cs circumstances each 
year and reached the same conclusion. Each time Fresh Start reviewed Mrs Cs 
circumstances it advised her to consider different options, including bankruptcy. Fresh Start 
noted Mrs C doesnt have assets and that by proceeding with bankruptcy she would be 
discharged from her liability for the debts included after a year. 
Ive looked at the annual reviews Fresh Start completed. During each review, Fresh Start 
asked for information about Mrs Cs circumstances and finances. Mrs C disclosed personal 
information about her health problems and Im satisfied Fresh Start was aware of her 
vulnerable situation. Whilst I understand Mrs C suffers with serious health problems, the 
information available shows Fresh Start took that into account when making its 
recommendations. And Im satisfied Fresh Start made reasonable recommendations for 
Mrs C to consider other options including bankruptcy as an alternative to continuing with the 
DMP each time it completed an annual review. 
Ultimately, Mrs C hasnt taken up Fresh Starts recommendations. Whilst Fresh Start can 
advise customers, it cant force them to follow the recommendations made. In place of 
agreement to proceed with an alternative option, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Fresh 
Start to assess the affordability of the continued DMP to ensure payments remained 
affordable. I havent found that Fresh Start treated Mrs C unfairly. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs C and her representative, but as Im satisfied Fresh Start 
dealt with the complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint about Fresh Start UK Debt Management 
Ltd. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman