DRN-1339158
 
The complaint
Mr N says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him a regular payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy to cover his credit card repayments.
What happened
Mr N applied for a credit card in September 1999 by completing an application form and 
sending it to Capital One in the post. At the same time he took out a PPI policy to cover his 
credit card repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ns complaint should be upheld because he thought Mr 
N wouldve understood he had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided 
a useful benefit.
Mr N disagrees. He says he didn't need the policy as he had good sick pay and other means 
to pay his card if needed. He says Capital One should have taken greater care advising him 
as the policy wasn't correct for him.
Both parties do not agree so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ns complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint and i will explain why.
I looked at whether Mr N was given a choice to have the PPI policy. Capital One has given 
us a copy of the application form Mr N completed. 
I can see that PPI is put across as optional on the form. It says please enrol me in Capital 
Ones Payment Protection Scheme and then next to this it gives the option to select PPI 
and also gives the option to not have it. I can see on Mr Ns application form a tick has been 
placed next to the option to have it. 
I think because Mr N selected to take PPI with a tick he understood he had a choice in taking 
the policy and wanted the cover. If Mr N didnt want to take out PPI he couldve ticked next to 
the option declining the policy. 
Mr N says Capital One should have taken greater care in advising him that the policy wasn't 
for him. But i can see that PPI was taken out through the post, so I dont think Capital One 
advised Mr N to take it. What this means is that Capital One didnt recommend PPI to Mr N, it just gave him information about it. This information needed to be given in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so, he could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if Capital One did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if 
Capital One did give all the information Mr N needed to make an informed choice on taking 
out the policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy for the following reasons:
He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr N says he had 6 months sick pay. When I consider this, I 
think the policy wouldve helped him in an extended time of need, so I dont think his 
circumstances at the time wouldve put him off buying it. 
Mr N says he had family that would have helped and also a car he could've sold but 
again I don't think that either would have given Mr N enough reassurance that would 
have put him off from not having the cover provided by the PPI policy. 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr N, and he could cancel 
the policy if he no longer wanted it.
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr N on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to him.
I know this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr N but in conclusion, I do not uphold 
his complaint.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr N's complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman