DRN-4330950
The complaint
Mr B and Ms S complain that National Westminster Bank Plc declined to refinance their joint 
overdraft into a personal loan.
What happened
Mr B and Ms S have a joint current account with NatWest. It has an overdraft limit of £5,500, 
and lately the account balance has been overdrawn by almost this amount. They complain 
that they are being charged about £150 a month in interest, and they feel trapped. They say 
they cant afford to pay off the overdraft balance all at once, or reduce it by much each 
month.
In 2022, they asked NatWest to refinance their overdraft as a personal loan with a fixed 
interest rate. They pointed out that they have had loans with NatWest before, and have paid 
them back. But NatWest told them that they did not meet its lending criteria. It suggested 
some alternative solutions, and recommended that they consult a debt advice charity. But it 
warned them that a debt management plan would affect their credit files.
Mr B and Ms S are adamant that they do not want their credit scores to be affected. Being 
dissatisfied with NatWests answer, they brought this complaint to our service. They said that 
they had spoken to NatWests financial difficulties team, and that in that phone call they had 
been told to ask the complaints team for a personal loan, but then the complaints team had 
repeated that they could not have a loan. They said they had been told this was because 
they live abroad.
One of our investigators considered this complaint, but she did not uphold it. She said that 
the bank had done nothing wrong. As Mr B and Ms S had not met NatWests lending criteria, 
it had not been obliged to give them a loan. There had been nothing in their account history 
to suggest to NatWest that they were in financial difficulty, since they had often cleared the 
overdraft balance or significantly reduced it, and had a healthy and regular income. The 
bank had been entitled to charge them interest and charges and had done so fairly. She 
suggested that if they are in difficulty, then they should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with the bank.
Mr B and Ms S did not accept that opinion. They re-iterated that a call handler at NatWest 
had encouraged them to apply for a loan. They said that they hadnt asked for the overdraft 
in the first place, but that it had been unilaterally imposed on them in 2011 when NatWest 
had closed their charge card account.  They argued that living in their country of residence 
had not disqualified them from previous borrowing, and so it was unfair that the criteria had 
changed so as to disqualify them now. They said that the fact they had been regularly paying 
a large amount of interest should indicate that living abroad did not make them a risky 
proposition. They asked for an ombudsman to consider their case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Before I do that, I must say that the events of 2011 are too long ago for me to consider them 
under the rules which set out my jurisdiction. So in this decision, I am only considering the 
events of 2022 and 2023.
NatWest is entitled to review and change its lending criteria from time to time. So just 
because Mr B and Ms S have had loans with that bank before, does not mean that they 
automatically qualify for one now. I think they realise that already, and are just complaining 
about how this has affected them. I think they have made a sensible point about the fact that 
they have been able to keep up payments on their overdraft notwithstanding that they live 
abroad, and in support of that argument I can see that they have generally been keeping 
within the overdraft limit (and on the rare occasions when they did not, they only exceeded it 
by a small amount and they promptly brought the balance back below the limit again, usually 
the next day). However, it is still for NatWest to decide for itself what its lending criteria are, 
based on its commercial judgement, and these do not have to be limited to affordability, but 
can also include other matters concerning its risk appetite.
I dont know whether, or to what extent, their country of residence was a factor in the banks 
decision, but I have no reason to doubt what Mr B and Ms S have said they were told about 
that by the banks call handlers. I note that country of residence is not a protected 
characteristic under the Equality Act 2010 (not that they have argued that it is, but that is 
really the only basis under which I could otherwise have considered interfering). I think that 
is a matter which the bank is entitled to have regard to, and to give such weight as it 
chooses.
I dont think its likely that the bank told Mr B or Ms S that they should apply to its complaints 
team for a loan, and I think this might be an error of recollection or perhaps a 
misunderstanding, since complaints teams dont make lending decisions. But assuming that 
the general gist of that conversation is accurate (and just that an application to some other 
department is what was meant), the lending decision would have been a matter for the 
department to whom the application was to be made; the call handler they spoke to was 
presumably trying to be helpful, but did not have authority to actually make that decision. 
Again, I think that Mr B and Ms S already know that too, and they are not suggesting 
otherwise, but I mention it here to explain that the decision whether to give them a personal 
loan still had to be made in accordance with the banks lending criteria and not on the basis 
of advice by someone who was not otherwise involved in that decision.
Turning to what should happen now, the real difficulty in this case is that Mr B and Ms S 
insist (understandably) that they do not want their credit files to be affected. Unfortunately, 
that rules out most of the available solutions, such as suspending interest and charges for a 
period (which I might otherwise have told NatWest to consider doing).
One solution which would not involve NatWest applying negative markers to their credit files 
is the one it recommended in its final response letter: reducing the overdraft limit 
incrementally over time (for example, by £500 a month) and keeping the balance within the 
adjusted limit until it has been brought down to a suitable level. I suggest they consider that.
I am unable to say that NatWest has failed in its duty to deal with Mr Bs and Ms Ss financial 
difficulties positively and sympathetically, because trying to avoid doing anything that would 
affect their credit files ties the banks hands to a considerable degree. The bank did suggest 
one way to help, and also pointed them towards debt advice charities who could give them 
independent advice; I think that is as much as it could do in the circumstances.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman