DRN-1467638
 
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance renewal for 
his buildings insurance policy. 
 What happened
Mr W insured his house with Triton for five years. His policy was due for renewal in early 
September 2019 and, because he hadnt received any paperwork from Triton, he emailed 
them in August 2019 asking for his renewal information. Triton replied to say Mr Ws 
paperwork would be with him shortly. When the paperwork hadnt arrived the day before    
Mr Ws renewal date, he arranged his buildings insurance with another provider. 
Mr W complained to Triton but didnt receive a response. While he was waiting for Triton to 
respond to him, Mr W received a letter from his previous insurer indicating Triton had set 
some policies up in error. 
As Triton didnt respond to Mr Ws complaint, he brought it to our service. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint. She accepted that Mr W had minimised the impact to himself by 
arranging a new insurance policy prior to the expiry date of his policy through Triton, but she 
felt the situation would have caused Mr W some inconvenience. She asked Triton to pay    
Mr W £100 in compensation. 
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mr W has provided. I find his 
information plausible and persuasive.
Mr W acted diligently by chasing Triton for his renewal information, and for ensuring he didnt 
remain without insurance cover in force once it was clear to him that Triton werent going to 
respond. So, the impact of Tritons actions on Mr W is minimal.  
However, Triton havent responded to Mr Ws complaint or concerns. And it would have 
been distressing for Mr W to receive a letter from his previous insurer suggesting his cover 
may have been placed in error. Thankfully, Mr W hadnt needed to make a claim on his 
insurance policy. But receiving that letter and Tritons lack of communication throughout the 
process has caused Mr W inconvenience. Because of this, its reasonable for Triton to pay Mr W £100 compensation. I think this amount fairly recognises the inconvenience and upset 
caused in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mr W £100 compensation for the upset hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 February 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman