DRN-4183801
The complaint
Mrs M complains as an Executor of the estate of Mr P about Ageas Insurance Limiteds 
(Ageas) decision to decline a claim under the late Mr Ps buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M says she walked into her late parents property and noticed significant damage which 
had been caused by leaking water. Mrs M reported this to Ageas, who initially sent Mrs M an 
email containing a link to a video which said her claim had been accepted. Ageas then later 
declined the claim. Mrs M complained about Ageas decision and about them back-tracking 
on their decision. Ageas responded and explained they were treating the incident as an 
escape of water. They said an endorsement was added to the policy after Mrs M made them 
aware the property would be unoccupied. They explained this removed cover for certain 
events  and this included escape of water. Ageas acknowledged an automated email was 
sent to Mrs M after she reported the claim, and the opening dialogue wouldve led to 
confusion. Ageas accepted there was misinformation here and apologised. 
Our investigator looked into things for the estate of Mr P. He thought Ageas hadnt acted 
unfairly in declining the claim and the apology was fair for the misinformation. The estate of 
Mr P disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs M will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is the late Mr Ps buildings insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms 
and conditions and defines water leakage as Water leaking from or freezing in any fixed 
domestic water or drainage installation, heating installation, washing machine, dishwasher, 
water bed, fish tank, refrigerator or deep freeze cabinet. Beside the definition is a section 
which sets out what isnt insured, and this says The damage when your home is unoccupied 
(for 60 days or more in a row) I can see, after Mrs M reported to Ageas that Mr P had 
passed away and the property was unoccupied, they added an endorsement to the policy. 
This says When your home is unoccupied for 60 days in a rowthe following cover is 
excluded from all sections of the policy:escape of water 
The first point Ive looked at is whether its reasonable for Ageas to treat the incident as an 
escape of water. I can see, when Mrs M first reported the claim to Ageas, they made a note 
which says Mrs M went to her late parents property to check on it and discovered a water 
tank pipe in the loft had burst, and she believes this was due to freezing. Ageas maintain the 
appropriate peril here is escape of water, but I can see Mrs M believes this should fall under 
water damage resulting from a burst water pipe  which she believes shouldnt be excluded 
under the policy. 
Looking at the perils listed in the policy booklet, and in applying the claim circumstances to 
this, I dont think its unreasonable for Ageas to take the view that the claim falls within the 
water leakage peril. I cant see theres any dispute that the property was unoccupied for 60 
days in a row prior to Mrs M noticing the incident. And that being the case, I dont think its 
unfair for Ageas to rely on the endorsement here to support their decision to decline the 
claim. The endorsement does specify that an escape of water event would be excluded from 
all sections of the policy if the property has been unoccupied for 60 consecutive days.
 
I note Mrs M says the endorsement set out a long list of restricted areas of cover, and given 
how long it was, whether the list was provided in writing or read out over the phone, no areas 
of cover stood out as being significantly more important than the other. Mrs M believes the 
term escape of water was hidden amongst this long list. I do acknowledge Mrs Ms points, 
but Ive seen the endorsement and its set out in a section on its own and is preceded by a 
statement which explains that an endorsement is a clause that changes or applies conditions 
to the cover provided. It goes further to say Please read these carefully so that you 
understand fully how they affect the cover provided by your insurance. If you do not comply 
with the terms of the endorsements this may restrict or invalidate your insurance in the event 
of a claim. So, I think Ageas have acted reasonably here in ensuring that attention was 
drawn to the endorsement. I do acknowledge Mrs M believes the escape of water term was 
hidden amongst a long list. I can see this was second on the list of areas of cover affected 
by the unoccupancy terms. So I dont believe it was hidden, but even if I dont take into 
account where it featured in the list, I still think the preceding statement made it clear that it 
would be important to review all areas of cover on the list as these would be excluded under 
the unoccupancy terms. 
Mrs M says Ageas, in their complaint response, refer to a description of water leakage 
which they say is commonly known as escape of water. Mrs M says this is an admission by 
Ageas that they dont have a description for the escape of water term included in the 
endorsement. Mrs M also says the broker, in their complaint response, have referred to the 
policy booklets definition of water leakage as being the definition of escape of water.    
Mrs M says this is a false statement as the policy booklet doesnt contain a definition for 
escape of water. Mrs M says, given theres no specific and separate definition for escape 
of water in the policy booklet, there is no means to establish whether the escape of water 
term in the endorsement covers water damage resulting from a frozen or burst water pipe. 
Mrs M says her understanding of the term escape of water would be that it relates to, for 
example, leakage from a dishwasher or washing machine which would cause relatively 
minor damage. 
I acknowledge the points made by Mrs M, and I agree the endorsement refers to escape of 
water and theres no definition for this specific term in the policy booklet. However, given the 
policy booklets definition of water leakage, I believe its reasonable to infer that this is what 
the endorsement refers to when listing escape of water. Im further persuaded its 
reasonable to infer this as the policy booklet does make numerous references to escape of 
water. These references relate to an explanation of the excess payable in the event of a 
claim. 
So, given that the policy booklet makes it clear theres an excess payable for this type of 
claim, its clear this is an insured peril thats covered by the policy  and I believe its 
reasonable to infer this term relates to the water leakage definition. That being the case, I 
dont believe its unfair for Ageas to treat the incident circumstances as an escape of water 
event as listed in the endorsement. 
I can see Mrs M believes the incident should be treated as a flood  and therefore covered 
by the policy. The policy booklet defines a flood as Water that comes suddenly into your 
buildings from outside, and which enters at the ground floor or below. Mrs M believes this applies here as the burst pipe in the loft led to water suddenly coming into the building from 
outside and below ground floor level. Mrs M says water damage resulting from a burst water 
pipe should be classed as a flood. Looking at the definitions and applying the incident 
circumstances, I dont think Ageas are acting unfairly in not treating the event as a flood. The 
water has entered the property from a burst pipe in the loft, and not from outside. And the 
definition of water leakage includes water leaking from any fixed domestic water installation. 
Mrs M says insurance is taken out to cover for events such as water damage, so she 
believes its unfair for Ageas to simply remove cover for certain perils. I do acknowledge the 
points made by Mrs M but its for an insurer to decide what risks theyre prepared to cover. In 
this case, there was already an exclusion in place, as set out in the policy booklet, relating to 
the property being unoccupied. But, after being informed by Mrs M about the property being 
unoccupied, Ageas decided to apply an endorsement when evaluating the risk this 
presented. Its not uncommon or unusual for insurers to apply such endorsements where 
they take the view the risk profile has changed following a change in circumstances. I do 
understand Mrs Ms concerns about an insurer removing cover for an event, but I dont 
believe this is motivated by Ageas wanting to decline a claim, but rather to reflect the change 
in risk presented by a property being unoccupied for a period of time. 
I acknowledge Mrs Ms points that Ageas shouldve provided more help and support, for 
example, by giving information on protecting an unoccupied property by turning off the water 
supply. I understand why Mrs M feels this information wouldve been beneficial, but I dont 
believe it would fall to Ageas to provide such guidance. I note Mrs M says Ageas gave her 
details of another insurer who provided cover after the Ageas policy expired. She says the 
other insurers policy included a requirement to leave the main incoming water stop tap 
turned off. Ageas say they dont market themselves as an unoccupancy insurer and I 
understand the other insurer offer policies specific to these circumstances. So, just because 
the other insurer set out requirements likely to prevent damage, it doesnt mean Ageas have 
acted unfairly in not providing similar guidance or requirements. 
Mrs M also feels the 60 days timeframe for the endorsement to apply is unfair as, in the 
case of bereavement, its likely that family members will be dealing with a range of matters. I 
do acknowledge Mrs Ms point and how dealing with matters such as probate might lead to a 
family members attention being drawn away from other matters. But, as mentioned above, 
its for an insurer to decide what risks theyre prepared to accept, and its not unreasonable 
for an insurer to apply a timeframe when considering the application of any endorsements. 
So I cant say Ageas have acted unfairly in applying a 60 day timeframe.             
I note Mrs M feels Ageas have back tracked and changed their decision after informing her 
theyd accepted her claim. Mrs M refers to a video Ageas sent to her saying Starting with 
the good news, that based on what you told us weve accepted your claim. I can see when 
Mrs M reported the claim Ageas sent an acknowledgement by email. This email says Ageas 
recognise that making a claim can be daunting, so they attach a link to a video that guides 
customers through the next steps of the claim. Ageas say, while this video is intended to be 
generic and is designed to help customers understand the claim process, they accept the 
opening dialogue will have caused confusion and apologise for the miscommunication. 
I can see from the claim notes that Ageas did then explain the claim had been declined 
together with the reasons. So, I think an apology is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.       
Mrs M does have my sympathy, and Im very sorry to hear about her personal 
circumstances. I acknowledge the last 20 months have been very difficult for her on a 
personal level. I understand it has been very stressful for Mrs M in dealing with her parents 
estates, putting the property up for sale and then having to deal with a claim involving 
significant damage to the property. I wish to reassure Mrs M Ive read and carefully 
considered everything she has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I 
need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman