DRN-4104852
The complaint
Mrs O is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) allowed a payment to leave her account
What happened
Mrs O said that she had £40 taken from her bank account by a merchant she had previously 
used. She was unhappy that the money had been taken and that the bank didnt ask her to 
verify the payment before it left her account. She believes the merchant has acted 
fraudulently. 
Monzo explained to Mrs O that it hadnt done anything wrong. It said the transaction had 
been made via manual entry, which it is allowed to process. It also said that as she had 
previously given her account details to the merchant, it wasnt considered fraud but said that 
it could raise a good and services dispute, known as a chargeback. It said she would need to 
provide evidence that she had tried to resolve the dispute with the merchant directly first as 
cases like this can only be raised once and without evidence of direct contact, it was unlikely 
to be upheld. 
Mrs O was unhappy with this so brought the complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into things but didnt think Monzo had done anything wrong. Mrs O remained unhappy so 
ask for the case to be passed to an ombudsman so the case was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Generally speaking, the bank is liable for transactions that are not authorised, and account 
holders are liable for transactions that are authorised.
As part of my investigation, I needed to determine if Mrs O had consented to the payment 
instruction. From what Ive seen in the case file, it looks like she did consent to the 
transaction but then later cancelled the appointment. As a result, it looks like the transaction 
was authorised therefore the bank cannot be held liable. 
I can see from the submissions provided by Monzo that the transaction was made via 
Manual Entry. This means that the merchant manually entered the card details for the 
payment to go though. Manual Entry payments are often processed when the customer is 
not present, for example when paying over the phone etc. These payments require no 
authorisation from the customer as they're processed 'offline' and the full card details must 
be known by the merchant to process payments in this way. This is something that banks 
are allowed to process so I am not able to uphold on this point.
A way banks can sometimes try to resolve the issue is by proceeding with a chargeback. 
However, in this case, Monzo decided not to progress with the chargeback because a 
requirement for it to succeed, is that the consumer must have attempted to resolve the 
matter with the merchant first. They provided details of how to do this and then send this 
proof to Monzo, so it could continue its investigation. I can see from the submissions that 
Mrs O was reluctant to do this. And without evidence that she had done so, theres no 
reasonable chance for the chargeback to succeed. I therefore think it was reasonable for 
Monzo to not attempt a chargeback at this time. 
I understand that Mrs O has since contacted the merchant. If she is unhappy with how 
Monzo continued its investigation after she made it aware of the contact with the merchant, 
she is free to raise a further complaint. This is classed as a new event, one which Monzo 
has the right to investigate if it ought to have done something differently. If Mrs O is not 
happy with its response, she is free to bring the complaint to us for our consideration.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman