DRN-4245363
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc didnt credit his account with money paid in.
What happened
Mr M explains that he was in hospital. And he asked his brother to pay in £500 to his 
account in cash using a deposit machine on 28 February 2022. There was a problem, and 
he says £200 of the money had been taken by the machine but wasnt credited to his 
account. He asked for this to be corrected.
Santander had issued final response letters saying that it wouldnt be upholding his 
complaint. It said that there had been no discrepancy with the machine involved on 24 March 
2022. It asked that Mr M clarify with his brother what had happened and supply any 
evidence to support the claim.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said that the cash deposit 
machine audit indicated a problem with returning notes at 9:44pm on 28 February 2022. It 
didnt specify the number of notes involved but this was consistent with Mr Ms testimony 
about what happened. And Santander had offered to refund this money after his complaint 
was referred to this service. He also thought that Mr M should be paid £100 for the 
inconvenience caused by the time taken to resolve the matter. Santander agreed to pay this.
Mr M didnt agree that this was sufficient. This didnt take into account the number of visits 
made to a branch and the related inconvenience of following this up. He wanted £200 more 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note from the information provided by Mr M that this matter was reported on his behalf to 
branch staff. And the missing money hadnt been credited. So, a complaint was raised 
through a branch on 24 March 2022.
On 31 March 2022 a member of the complaints team spoke to Mr M, and Ive listened to a 
recording of that conversation. The member of staff at first said that she was going to refund 
the amount of £200 as a gesture of goodwill. Unfortunately, Mr M then said that this wasnt 
the issue. It was that he needed to pay in £500 a month to his account to be paid interest. 
And he gave her the impression that of the £500 only £300 had been paid in. That led 
Santander to understand that he was talking about events on 24 March 2022 when £300 had 
been credited. Although Mr M wanted Santander to speak again with his sister it was unable 
to discuss the complaint over the phone with her as she was then not with him. On 29 June 
2022 it did speak to his sister as he was present with her. It clearly didnt resolve matters 
and still wanted information from his brother about what happened.
There has been confusion. Mr M didnt make the deposit himself due to illness and wasnt 
sure about what happened when he spoke to Santander. But the position had been made 
clear to branch staff when the dispute was initially raised. And an opportunity to resolve 
things based on the same cash machine audit that Ive now seen was missed.
I need to say that Mr M is the complainant here and any award for inconvenience would be 
made based on what happened to him and not his representatives. I also understand though 
the added inconvenience for him of this matter not being resolved as he was in hospital. I 
know he wants further compensation. Ive taken into account our published guidance and 
applied my own judgement. Having done so I think that the total amount offered of £300, and 
I understand already paid on 31 March 2023, is reasonable. So, Im afraid I wont be 
increasing.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in the sense that Santander UK Plc should credit 
him with the deposit of £200 and pay him compensation of £100 making a total of £300 and 
as it says it has already now done.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman