DRN-4339594
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money he says he lost to a scam. E is 
representing Mr M in this complaint.
What happened
On 6 June 2018, Mr M went into branch to make a payment of £20,050 to an unregulated 
property scheme (that I will refer to as W) from his Santander bank account. Mr M 
complained to Santander through E in 2022.
E says the transaction should have been flagged on Santanders fraud detection system for 
two reasons. Firstly, the payment was for a large amount of money. And, secondly, that Mr 
M had made a payment to a new payee. E went on to argue that Santander had breached its 
duty of care by failing to question the payment and, if it had done so, Mr M wouldnt have 
gone ahead with the payment  so the loss would have been prevented.
E has also raised a further point about the director of W and stated Santander ought to have 
been privy to this information and as such didnt act upon it.
Santander has said in its final response letter to Mr M that these types of claims would 
usually be part of the Authorised Push Payment Contingent Reimbursement Process, but 
the claim does not meet the requirement under the CRM code, as the payment was made 
before the code came into effect. It also said that there is no evidence that Mr M raised a 
claim with Santander to investigate this payment and concluded it was responsible for the 
loss Mr M suffered.
So, Mr M and E remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought that 
the payment didnt stand out as being particularly unusual or concerning, so, it wouldnt have 
flagged on its fraud detection systems. E didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman to be considered.
I issued my provisional findings on 25 August 2023. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for different reasons, which I will 
explain. Before I do so, I would like to say that I've taken into account Es very detailed 
submissions about what happened at the time. I hope E and Mr M doesn't take it as a 
discourtesy that I don't reply to every point made. The purpose of my decision is to explain 
my findings on the issues I consider key in the complaint.
Firstly, I agree with Santander that this complaint cant be considered in light of the 
Contingent Reimbursement Mode (CRM Code). I say this because the payment in question 
happened in 2018. So, the transaction took place before the CRM code came into effect. So, 
our service cant consider the complaint in line with CRM.
Its not in dispute that Mr M authorised the payment in question. He went into branch on 6 
June 2018 and transferred £20,050 to a payment service provider. While I understand that 
Mr M didnt intend for his money to go to the potential scammer, under the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017 Mr M is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance as the payment 
was authorised by him. This remains the position unless there is sufficient evidence that 
Santander should have fairly and reasonably done more to protect him.
To put it another way, Santander has a responsibility to monitor accounts and payments and 
one of the reasons for this is to prevent fraud and scams. Santander need to have systems 
in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate its consumers 
are at risk of fraud, amongst other things. That said, it would clearly be an onerous 
requirement for Santander to question every payment and I consider it to be appropriate for 
a customers previous account activity among other factors to be taken into account when 
deciding whether a payment does, or does not, present a heightened risk.
As Mr M and his representative has said he did fall victim of a scam Ive considered whether 
Santander ought to have consider this payment as being so unusual or uncharacteristic that 
it should have given the bank sufficient grounds to suspecting potential fraud.
E has said that it feels Santanders fraud detective systems ought to have triggered for two 
reasons; the first being that the payment Mr M made was large and uncharacteristic. 
Secondly, it says Mr E had set up a new payee. Having reviewed the evidence, I am minded 
to agree. I say this because the payment Mr M made was substantial, it was an international 
transfer, which is unusual for Mr M and I have also considered that a new payee was set up 
on Mr Ms account. As such, I think it is reasonable to conclude that this ought to have 
triggered Santanders fraud detection system.
Due to Mr M completing the transaction in branch and the passage of time thats since 
passed, there is limited evidence from the time the transaction was made. And Mr M cant 
exactly recall what was discussed on 6 June 2018. However, having considered the system 
notes provided by Santander, I can see that the notes say: Transferring to investment 
company  customer said it wasnt a cold call. This indicates that Santander did query the 
transaction in question with Mr M and some further questions about the transactions were 
asked.
However, as explained above, due to the payment being significant, in my view, it would 
have been proportionate for Santander to have asked Mr M to provide further details (for the 
avoidance of any doubt, I am not suggesting Santander didnt do this but due to the lack of 
evidence from both parties, it is unclear). The types of questions I would have expected it to 
ask are who the money was being transferred to; why the payment was being made (which 
we have evidence it did ask); how he came across W (again evidence to suggest some 
discussion was had around this point); his previous investment experience and what 
research he had undertaken about W.
I have considered Mr Ms answers to the limited questions we have evidence of Santander 
asking. Mr M indicated it wasnt a cold call and made it clear it was for an investment. And 
while E has raised many points as to why Santander ought to have been aware this was a 
potential scam, the fact remains that W didnt enter into liquidation until 2020, i.e. two years 
or so after Mr M made this payment. So, there wasnt any significant concerns raised about 
W until some years after the payment was made or sufficient information in the public 
domain for Santander to be concerned about W.
I appreciate that E has said there was information available about the director of W (which E 
says would have indicated Mr M was exposed to potential financial harm). However, as E 
will be aware, the director of W changed his name. And just as Mr M wouldnt have necessarily been able to establish this if he had completed his own independent research, I 
cant conclude it is reasonable that Santander ought to have been aware of this either. E has 
also mentioned that W had a Santander account, as such it ought to have been aware. 
However, bank staff at that time would not have been expected to have checked such 
details. So, I think this is an unrealistic expectation to require from Santander. 
I have also considered the fact Mr M was provided by W with a comprehensive information 
memorandum about the investment. And while its not uncommon for scammers to provide 
these comprehensive documents (which the banks are aware of), this along with the fact 
there was limited information about W being a potential scam, leads me to believe that any 
further intervention from Santander would not have resulted in Mr M doing anything 
differently.
This is supported by the fact that when Mr M was asked how he was contacted, he didnt say 
that he had received cold calls (as E has stated to our service). So, despite being given an 
opportunity to inform Santander that he had been approached by the potential scammer and 
there being a natural gateway to provide this information, Mr M did not reveal this.
Therefore, Santander wasnt given critical insight into what was really happening, denying it 
an opportunity to probe further. So, assuming Santander didnt ask the questions I would 
have expected it to, I cannot safely say if it had Mr M would have given answers which 
alerted Santander he was at risk of becoming victim of a potential scam.
E submits that W, or intermediaries acting on its behalf, did not act in accordance with 
relevant regulations (for example by breaching rules around the marketing of unregulated 
investments) and this might have been established by the bank. I think, in these 
circumstances, thats an unrealistic expectation of the kind of warning the bank ought to 
have given and, set against the weight of evidence at the time that W was operating 
legitimately would, in any case, be unlikely to have deterred Mr M from going ahead.
I have gone on to consider if Santander took reasonable steps to recover the funds for Mr M. 
However, Santander has said Mr M hasnt raised the issue with its disputed transaction 
team. Which has denied Santander the opportunity to attempt to recover the funds. I am also 
mindful that the transaction happened in 2018 and the complaint was raised with Santander 
in 2022 and due to the circumstances of the complaint, on balance, I think it is highly unlikely 
Santander could do anything further to recover the funds as it is unlikely the funds would 
have remained.
Consequently, despite my natural empathy for the situation Mr M finds himself in, having lost 
a considerable amount of money, I am currently not persuaded that Santander taking 
different actions would have prevented Mr M from making the payment, or incurring the loss 
that ensued. It follows that, as things stand, I do not consider it fair or reasonable to require 
Santander to do anything further.
So, it follows that my provisional finding was that I didnt uphold the complaint.
Both parties had an opportunity to respond to my provisional findings but didnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded or provided further comments for me to consider, my findings 
remain the same as I set out in my provisional findings.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman