DRN-4337888
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the service Astrenska Insurance Limited provided when carrying out a 
boiler service under his home emergency insurance policy.
Any reference to Astrenska includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mr W had a home emergency policy underwritten by Astrenska which included an 
annual boiler service. In December 2020, an Astrenska engineer serviced Mr Ws 
boiler. 
In 2022, Mr W changed boiler service provider. An engineer from the new provider 
serviced his boiler and told Mr W there was an issue with the condensate pipework.  
Mr W complained to Astrenska saying he considered its engineer to have carried out 
a sub-standard service because they failed to identify the issue with the pipe. 
In reply Astrenska said it was satisfied its engineer had serviced the boiler 
satisfactorily, and that it hadnt left Mr W in a dangerous or unsuitable situation. 
However, it offered £30 to recognise it had given some incorrect information when 
initially handling Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W remained unhappy and so brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it and didnt uphold it. Because Mr W disagreed, the complaint has been 
passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigators outcome  Ill explain why. 
The issue here is whether Astrenskas engineer failed to identify a problem with Mr 
Ws condensate pipe and if they did, whether this amounted to them failing to provide 
a satisfactory boiler service and in turn, not meeting their obligation under the policy.
The parties seem to agree that it would be beneficial for Mr Ws condensate pipe to 
be installed in line with current standards. But Astrenska says this doesnt mean the 
engineer failed to carry out a satisfactory service in 2020. It has said that whilst the 
condensate pipe might not be fitted in line with current standards, that doesnt mean 
it posed a safety risk at the time of the service. It added that how the pipe was 
installed may have met gas safety regulations at the time of installation, but that this 
has since changed.  
Mr W has shared a copy of the engineers job sheet from 2022 which refers to the 
condensate pipe, but I note this contains no further detail to substantiate Mr Ws 
position that Astrenskas engineer had failed to carry out a satisfactory service in 
2020 and put him at risk. 
Furthermore, the new engineers job note suggests there were no safety issues with 
the boiler in its current form as it passed the safety summary and maintenance 
check. Theres also nothing to indicate the condensate pipe prevented the boiler 
from passing the service  suggesting the pipe wasnt identified as a defect. So, Im 
not persuaded I have sufficient evidence to show Astrenska failed to fulfil its 
obligation under the policy, and I wont, therefore, be directing it to reimburse Mr W 
the cost of his policy.
Its worth highlighting that whilst Mr W argues his premium should be refunded 
because in his opinion hes paid for a sub-standard boiler service, his premium 
wasnt just for a stand-alone boiler service, but rather included other insurance cover 
such as heating, plumbing, and wiring cover, which was reflected in the cost of his 
premium.  
With regards to compensation, I must keep in mind that the concerns Mr W had 
about his policy being invalidated and the potential difficulty of making a claim if his 
boiler was found to be defective - didnt materialise. Whilst I appreciate these were 
genuine concerns  and my intention isnt to diminish these  it wouldnt be 
reasonable to direct Astrenska to pay compensation for a situation which hasnt 
occurred and from which theres been no impact. 
So, I dont consider it fair and reasonable to direct Astrenska to pay compensation 
beyond what it has already offered which is £30 to recognise its initial investigation 
into Mr Ws complaint could have been handled better. Compensation of this amount, 
coupled with the timely action Astrenska took when reinvestigating Mr Ws concerns 
satisfies me it has done enough in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
Astrenska Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £30 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Astrenska 
Insurance Limited should pay Mr W £30.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman