DRN-4009729
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (C&G) 
has made a number of deductions from the amount he has claimed under the insurance 
policy for his pet dog.
 
What happened
When Mr Ts pet dog, who Ill refer to as A, became unwell in April 2022, Mr T took her to 
her vet. She was found to have a splenic mass. This required A to undergo a splenectomy. 
This vet couldnt operate, so A was taken to a larger surgery who quoted £10,000 but who 
then decided they couldnt operate on A either. A was then driven to a third vets who were 
willing to operate and who quoted £4,000. After payment of a £250 deposit, the vets final bill 
came to £4,250. The maximum payable under Mr Ts policy for veterinary treatment is 
£4,000, and Mr T assumed that that C&G would pay this.
However C&G identified a number of items in the vets invoice which it considered should be 
deducted from the amount of Mr Ts claim. In its final response letter to Mr T some 22 weeks 
after hed submitted his claim, C&G  referred to the terms of Mr Ts policy and to the 
limitations on what can be claimed for. These were:
1. Items where an item is specifically excluded from cover
Warming blanket £61.68
2. Items where a specific financial cap is stated in the policy.
Hospitalisation over 1 day £178.88
The policy says it will pay up to £100 per 24 hours for Hospitalisation. As the vets had 
charged £278.88 for this C&G deducted £178.88.
Consultation fee over £200 £230.00
The policy says it will pay up to £200 for Referral Consultation fees. As the vets had 
charged £430, C&G deducted £230.
3. Items where the following term is referred to.
General Exclusions
 Vet Fees will only be paid if they are: - Reasonable; and Essential for Your pets 
health and well-being. We may limit any payment to a maximum mark-up of 100% for 
veterinary Treatment, medication and dispensing fees.
General anaesthetic over £250 £389.62
C&G says it will pay up to £250 for General Anaesthetic as this is what it considers 
reasonable. As the vets had charged £639.62 for this it deducted £389.62.
Fluid therapy £222.82
Lab interpretation over £25 £105.75
C&G says it will pay up to £25 as this is what it considers reasonable.
Medications over 100% mark- up £12.92
4. Items where the following term is referred to.
What is not insured?
Any miscellaneous costs that do not directly relate to the Treatment of an Illness or 
Accidental Injury, including but not limited to single use items, non-medical items, 
cleaning supplies and other such costs that a Vet may charge but are not directly 
related to the actual Treatment of Your Pet.
Consumables £200.45
Surgical pack/ drape pack fees  £180.57
Waste disposal £12.05
In July 2022, C&G paid £2,703.89 towards Mr Ts claim. It then paid a further £294.80. This 
left Mr T with a shortfall of £1,296.11.
Mr T brought a complaint to this service in November 2022. He said that there remained 
£1,546.11 outstanding to As vet and that this was causing him financial problems as well as 
considerable stress and upset. He wanted C&G to pay the remaining  £1,296.11which would 
take the total paid by C&G up to the policy limit of £4,000. He says hes been treated very 
unfairly by C&G as he couldnt be expected to know the detail about what C&G would or 
wouldnt pay for and in the circumstances there was no time to pick and choose a vet based 
on the fees they would charge.
Our investigators view was that whilst some deductions were reasonable as the amount 
deducted was specified in the policy, Mr T wouldnt have been aware of other deductions or 
potential treatment caps, which was unfair. She considered that it was reasonable for C&G 
to make a deduction for hospitalization costs in excess of £100 and a buster collar as these 
items were reasonable and had been fairly applied. She recommended that C&G pay the 
other deductions it had made.
In response to our investigators view, C&G agreed to pay further sums in respect of As fluid 
therapy and anaesthetic, but maintained that the other deductions were in accordance with 
the policy terms.
As C&G doesnt agree with our investigators view as to the other deductions, Mr Ts 
complaint has been referred to me as an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint in relation to a number of the deductions 
that C&G has made and Ill explain why.
Ive considered the terms of Mr Ts policy. I agree with our investigator that its reasonable 
for C&G to deduct from any claim made the cost of items that the policy states are subject to 
a specific exclusion or a specified cap and provided that cap has been reasonably applied. 
I therefore consider that it is reasonable for C&G to deduct the cost of the following and for 
the reasons given:
Warming blanket   The policy states under What is not insured? Any claims for buster 
collars, medical vests, and boots (including warming blankets)  Hospitalisation over £100  The policy states, under What is not insured?  Any claim 
where ..hospitalisation costs exceed £100 per day
Consultation fee over £200 - The policy states, under What is not insured?  Any claim 
where the cost of a referral consultation exceeds £200 
Waste disposal  I consider it reasonable for C&G to exclude this as being not directly 
related to the actual Treatment of Your Pet
I dont consider it reasonable for C&G to deduct the cost of the following and for the following 
reasons :
Medication over !00% mark up - I consider that this charge is Reasonable; and Essential 
for Your pets health and well-being. I consider it is for C&G to provide evidence as to 
why this charge is unreasonable in the circumstances. There is no evidence as to what 
As vet paid for this medication and therefore the mark-up applied.
Lab interpretation over £25  I consider that this charge is Reasonable; and Essential for 
Your pets health and well-being. . I consider it is for C&G to provide evidence as to why 
this charge is unreasonable in the circumstances.
Consumables  I consider it unreasonable for C&G to say that these dont directly relate 
to As treatment
In - patient examinations  I dont consider this should be added to hospitalisation costs. I 
consider its reasonable to assume that examinations wouldve been necessary wherever 
A was whilst she was receiving treatment.
Surgical pack/ drape pack fees - I consider it unreasonable for C&G to say that these are 
not directly related to the actual Treatment of Your Pet.
I believe that C&G has agreed to pay the following but for the avoidance of doubt I will 
express my opinion on their inclusion in the list of items that I dont consider it reasonable for 
C&G to deduct for the reason given:
Fluid therapy - I consider that this charge is Reasonable; and Essential for Your pets 
health and well-being.  I consider it is for C&G to provide evidence as to why this charge 
is unreasonable in the circumstances. 
General anaesthetic - I consider that this charge is Reasonable; and Essential for Your 
pets health and well-being.  I consider it is for C&G to provide evidence as to why this 
charge is unreasonable in the circumstances.
I also consider that the unreasonable delay in C&Gs handling of Mr Ts claim has led to 
considerable stress and upset and I agree with our investigator that C&G should pay Mr T 
compensation of £200. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im partly upholding Mr Ts complaint. I require Casualty & 
General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited:
1. to reassess Mr Ts claim deducting only the costs that I have stated above to be 
reasonably deductible, and the policy excess. 2. to pay Mr T the amount so calculated less any sums already paid to him.
3. to pay Mr T simple interest on the sum payable at 8% calculated from the date Mr T 
submitted his claim to the date that payment is made to him.
4. to pay Mr T £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman