DRN-4186358
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service received from Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd under his 
home emergency policy.
Helvetia are the underwriters of this policy ie the insurer. Novus Underwriting acted on 
Helvetias behalf. Therefore, any reference to Helvetia includes the actions of Novus 
Underwriting.
What happened
Mr S has a home emergency policy with Helvetia. The policy covers plumbing repairs, 
amongst other services.
In September 2022, Mr S made a claim as there was a leak from the hot water tank.
Helvetias engineer attended the same day, but couldnt carry out a repair as parts were 
needed. The repair was completed 12 days later. Mr S was without hot water in that time. 
Helvetia offered Mr S £80 compensation for this, which he accepted.
During the initial repair it was found that the property had a faulty stopcock which needed to 
be replaced (though it wasnt causing any leaks). A number of visits were needed to resolve 
this issue, as an engineer later found that both stopcocks at the property were faulty, and an 
industrial stopcock was needed for the downstairs supply. Again, parts needed to be 
ordered.
Mr S says that the engineer caused a leak from the main stopcock during one of the visits. 
He notified Helvetia of this on 26 November 2022. The repair was carried out on 15 
December 2022.
Mr S then told Helvetia about a further leak under the kitchen sink. This was repaired a few 
days later.
Mr S complained to Helvetia about the service it had provided. He thought the repairs had 
taken too long to complete, there had been multiple visits involved that had caused him 
disruption, and the engineer had caused a leak. He also thought Helvetia hadnt been 
proactive about the matter, and hed had to continually chase it for updates.
Helvetia accepted its service could have been better, and offered Mr S a further £95
compensation by way of apology (bringing the total compensation to £175). Mr S didnt 
accept this offer, and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator agreed that the repairs had taken too long, but thought the compensation 
Helvetia had offered was reasonable.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 June 2023. Heres what I said:
Helvetia has already accepted that Mr S was caused disruption by the multiple engineer 
visits, and that the repairs took too long. Though as our investigator has pointed out, some of 
the delays were due to Mr Ss availability. He also says he had to continually ask Helvetia for 
updates. Im satisfied the compensation Helvetia has offered for this inconvenience was 
reasonable.
However, Mr S also says that Helvetias engineer caused one of the leaks, which Helvetia 
hasnt disputed. As I understand it, the engineer carried out work in an attempt to replace the 
faulty stopcock. The stopcock wasnt leaking previously, but started leaking after the 
engineers visit. It therefore seems reasonable to assume that this was caused by the 
engineer.
Mr S has explained how this leak impacted him. He says he had to manage the leak by 
constantly needing to go outside to the street to shut the water on and off via the mains 
when it was needed (to limit the damage caused by the leak).
I find that Helvetia should pay Mr S an additional £150 compensation to recognise the 
inconvenience he was caused by this. This takes the total compensation to £325.
Mr S says he wants his premiums refunded. However, hes had the benefit of the policy, so I 
dont require Helvetia to refund the premiums paid.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments before I made my final 
decision. 
Both parties responded to confirm they accepted my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings, Im satisfied that Helvetia should pay 
Mr S total compensation of £325, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd to pay 
Mr S total compensation of £325 (less any amount already paid). Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 July 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman