DRN-4281574
The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, who Ill call Moneybarn.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I dont think this car has been of unsatisfactory quality. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr G. The car here was about 
seven years old and had already completed a little over 80,000 miles.
An old car with a high mileage will not be expected to be as good as a newer car with a low 
mileage, but it should still be fit for use on the road, in a condition that reflects its age and 
price.
Mr G says that the rear brakes were in an unsatisfactory condition when the car was 
supplied. He says the drum shoes had worn far too fast and must have been failing when he 
took receipt of the car. Brakes are a wear and tear item and needed to be in a roadworthy 
condition when the car was supplied. Im persuaded they were as they passed the MOT 
carried out when Mr G took receipt of the vehicle. I also note that Mr G was able to complete 
over 8,000 miles in the car before the rear brake disc problem occurred. I dont think its 
likely he would have been able to do that if the brakes were in an unacceptable condition at 
the inception of the deal. 
Mr G also says the business should have replaced the cam belt when the car was supplied. 
He says the cam belt change was due at 80,000 miles (the business say that was 90,000 
miles) but, regardless of whether that change should have been completed in services 
before the car was supplied to Mr G, I havent seen any evidence that the car was supplied 
with a full service history. In those circumstances, I dont think the supplier had to ensure the 
cam belt was changed, and Im not persuaded it was supplied in an unsatisfactory condition.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman