DRN-4515664
The complaint
Mr B, Mrs B and Miss B are unhappy with how Great Lakes Insurance SE handled a claim 
on their travel insurance policy. 
For ease Ill refer to Mr B and his family.  
What happened
Mr B and his family had a travel insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes. Theyd 
booked a family holiday abroad that included a nine-day adventure tour of the country  
participating in physical activities such as hiking on various different tours. 
They had a connecting flight on their outward journey. After departing on their first flight Mr B 
suffered a medical emergency on the plane - he lost consciousness and suffered seizures. 
An off-duty doctor on the flight assisted him and suspected he had suffered a stroke. When 
the flight landed Mr B was taken to hospital and stayed there for the rest of the day having 
tests. As a result, his family missed their connecting flight to their adventure tour destination. 
The doctors concluded Mr B had suffered convulsive syncope. They discharged him and Mr 
B says they were satisfied he could continue with his trip if he felt well enough. He called 
Great Lakes to let them know. However, when Mr B began to feel ill again, he called Great 
Lakes the next day to say he was too unwell to continue with his tour and hed be returning 
home with his family in a few days. 
Mr B continued to feel tired when he returned home and booked an appointment with his 
GP. He also made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the curtailment of his trip and the 
additional costs hed incurred. Great Lakes declined cover. They said the curtailment hadnt 
been medically necessary based on the advice from the doctor abroad. And although Mr B 
provided additional medical evidence from his GP, to support he was unable to continue on 
his planned adventure tour trip due to fatigue, Great Lakes maintained their position. 
The complaint was referred to this Service. Our investigator considered what had happened 
and upheld it. He was persuaded the GP evidence showed the curtailment was medically 
necessary. He asked Great Lakes to reconsider the claim and pay £200 compensation to Mr 
B and his family for their poor communication during the claim. 
Mr B accepted this outcome. Great Lakes disagreed. In summary they said: 
The evidence from the GP doesnt provide any diagnosis for Mr B or follow up 
investigation for an underlying condition. 
The customer could have chosen to rest and recuperate once at this holiday 
destination  he didnt have to take on high altitude trekking.
The case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that the insurer has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Claims handling 
Mr B is unhappy about Great Lakes delays and communication throughout the claim. Its not 
in dispute the claim couldve been handled better and that Great Lakes communication was 
poor at times  they left questions unanswered and there were missed opportunities to 
provide meaningful advice. 
The situation would have been particularly worrying given Mr Bs health episodes were 
suspected strokes and he couldnt be sure if his onward travel and additional costs would be 
covered, due to a lack of response from Great Lakes. So I agree that £200 compensation is 
reasonable here to reflect the additional stress and frustration caused by Great Lakes during 
what was an already difficult time for Mr B and his family. 
Claim decline 
On balance, following the addition medical evidence provided by Mr Bs GP, I dont think it 
was reasonable for Great Lakes to continue to conclude that the curtailment wasnt 
medically necessary. Ill explain why: 
I appreciate why Great Lakes initially placed weight on the treating doctor abroad. He 
said Mr B was fit to continue with his trip if he didnt suffer any symptoms within 24 
hours. But I agree with the investigator that Mr Bs symptoms had clearly worsened 
by the next day. He contacted Great Lakes to explain his change in health and that 
he felt too unwell to continue on to his adventure tour trip. And I think it was unfair 
that Great Lakes then failed to advise him he needed to seek a further medical 
opinion in the circumstances. 
The additional medical evidence provided by Mr Bs GP says he would have been 
advised not to continue with an adventure tour holiday because he was suffering 
from fatigue following two episodes of convulsions - so he required rest. Fatigue is a 
common symptom after convulsion syncope so Im persuaded by this evidence. And I 
think its likely, if M B had been seen by a medical professional again when his 
symptoms had worsened, hed have been advised not to continue with his planned 
trip and walking excursions.
Great Lakes has commented that the evidence from the GP doesnt provide any 
diagnosis for Mr B or follow up investigation. But I dont think it needs to. In their 
professional medical opinion, the GP has explained they wouldve advised rest for a 
patient who was suffering from fatigue, rather than trekking at altitude. And we know 
that Mr B had planned an adventure tour that included trekking amongst other 
physical activities. So I think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes not to have given 
this additional medical evidence more weight. And it was unfair they continued to 
conclude it wasnt medically necessary for Mr B to curtail his touring holiday. 
I note Great Lakes have said Mr B couldve chosen to rest once he reached his destination and not participated in physical activities. But, as explained above, the 
purpose of the majority of his trip was a nine-day tour of the country with his family 
which included walking excursions (amongst other activities). So I dont this is a fair 
and reasonable conclusion by Great Lakes in these circumstances. 
Summary 
Its clear the holiday was important to the family and I think Mr B wouldve continued with the 
planned tour trip if he hadnt felt unwell again following his discharge from hospital. And Im 
persuaded by the evidence from Mr Bs GP that its most likely curtailment was medically 
necessary for that type of trip due to his fatigue.  So I think Great Lakes unfairly considered 
the claim. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE need to put things right by:
Reassessing the claim, against the remaining terms of the policy
Pay £200 compensation for the impact of their delays and poor communication 
during the claim
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE and direct them to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, Mrs B and 
Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman