DRN-3736111
The complaint
 Miss K, and Mr W complain that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) closed a Junior 
ISA(JISA) but didnt refund interest on the account. They would like the interest refunded.
What happened
Miss K says she opened a JISA in 2018 for her son who also had a Child Trust Fund 
(CTF) which matured in June 2021. At this point Miss K requested the CTF money be 
transferred into the JISA.
She says NS&I didnt transfer the money into the JISA as it said that a child couldnt have 
both a CTF and JISA open at the same time. It transferred funds back to where they 
originated from but didnt pay back interest accrued on the JISA.
Miss K says the CTF wasnt opened by her. And she opened the JISA online as a 
savings account . She didnt feel the CTF was relevant, so made a genuine mistake 
having both a CTF and JISA at the same time.
NS&I explained that, as HMRC rules state that a CTF and JISA cant be open at the same 
time it had to put this right . It did so by cancelling the interest in the JISA account as that 
account shouldnt have been opened and therefore no interest should have accrued. It did 
pay a total of £100 compensation for not actioning instructions in relating to a Childrens 
Bond
I issued a provisional decision n in which I concluded:-
There was no dispute that Miss K opened a JISA whilst her son already had a CTF 
which she wasnt allowed to do. Also, that the money from the accounts has been 
accounted for but the interest on the JISA hasnt been paid.
Although the CTF was  opened automatically Miss K  was aware of the fund since 
she asked for funds to be transferred from it. Whilst she might not have been 
aware of the terms and conditions of the CTF from the documentation I saw I 
found there was sufficient information so show both accounts couldnt be held at 
the same time
I appreciated that Miss Ks son  lost the interest that accrued on his JISA which he 
wouldnt have done had Miss K opened a deposit account  that is not a JISA. But 
having looked at the government information on JISAs and CTFs  I couldnt  say 
that NS&Is actions were wrong. It was  clear a child couldnt have both at the 
same time.
I didnt see how  NS&I could have done anything else other than to close the 
original JISA and not to pay the interest as Miss Ks son wasnt eligible for the 
account and therefore wasnt eligible for the interest on it. 
Tax  rules meant it wasnt  possible to refund the interest lost on the account.
NS&I had already paid Miss K a total of £100 compensation for issues relating to 
not actioning instructions on a Childrens Bond. I didnt believe the compensation 
related to the issues around the CTF and JISA.
I didnt think it was  reasonable to tell NS&I to pay compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both NS&I and Miss K have responded to my provisional decision.
NS&I accepted my provisional decision and gave no further comments for me to consider.
Miss K accepted my provisional decision covered the main points of her complaint. 
However, she said she understood the  £100 compensation  was in relation the initial 
handling of her  query as she had to keep repeating the same information to different 
members of NS&I staff.. She didnt feel compensation was paid for problems with the CTF 
transfer.
I have considered Miss Ks points and reviewed the original information I had. My 
understanding is still that the compensation was paid due to the problems with not actioning 
Miss Ks instructions on a Childrens Bond for which I felt NS&I appropriately paid Miss K 
£100 as there was some delay in carrying out her instructions. 
However, I think the main issue here is that NS&Is customer service fell short of what Miss 
K might reasonably expect and, as a result , in my view it paid an appropriate level of 
compensation.
As Miss K made no other comments for me to consider I have reviewed my provisional 
decision and am still of the view that NS&Is actions were reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman