DRN-3672169
The complaint
The estate of Mr S complains that Vitality Life Limited unfairly declined a claim and avoided 
Mr Ss policy. 
Mrs S, who is represented, brings the complaint as administrator of the estate. I shall refer to 
the representative as R throughout. 
What happened
In October 2019, Mr S took out a life insurance policy with Vitality through a financial advisor. 
In the absence of any health disclosures, the application was accepted immediately and 
cover commenced. 
Very sadly, in April 2021 Mr S died. Later that month Mrs S made a claim on the policy. 
After reviewing the claim, Vitality said Mr S hadnt answered questions correctly during the 
application process. It considered these to be qualifying misrepresentations and said that, 
had Mr S answered correctly, it would not have offered cover. Vitality avoided the policy and 
refunded the premiums Mr S had paid. 
R, on behalf of the estate, brought this complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint, saying she thought Vitality had acted fairly in declining the claim and avoiding the 
policy.  
R didnt agree with the investigator, highlighting differences between medical and ordinary 
language, and saying Mr S had answered accurately to the best of his knowledge. He asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be very unwelcome news 
for Mr Ss family. Ill explain my decision.
Firstly, Id like to offer my condolences to Mr Ss family. I appreciate this has been an 
extremely difficult and distressing time for everyone.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Vitality has said Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he applied for the policy. Its relied on answers he gave to questions about his medical 
history on the proposal form, submitted electronically to Vitality by the financial advisor. Mr S 
answered no to the following questions:
Have you smoked or used tobacco products in the past 12 months? This includes 
cigarettes, cigars or pipes and any nicotine replacement therapy. 
In the last 5 years have you had raised blood pressure or raised cholesterol, Deep 
Vein Thrombosis, disease or disorder of the blood vessels including the aorta and 
arteries of the leg or neck or any condition affecting the blood such as anaemia or 
thalassaemia?
Within the last 2 years have you been advised to have or undergone any 
investigation such as blood tests, scans or biopsies? If so, for what condition or 
suspected condition?
When assessing the claim on Mr Ss policy, Vitality received medical records from his GP. It 
became aware that in August 2019, Mr S had consulted a pharmacist at his surgery 
regarding heartburn. The history notes from that consultation record that Mr S is a smoker 
and under the plan section it says, advised on smoking and food, - main trigger factors. 
I find that the smoking question was clear and given the medical evidence, it was reasonable 
for Vitality to conclude that Mr S had failed to answer the question correctly and to treat the 
misrepresentation as a qualifying one. 
In September 2017, Mr S was seen by a doctor at his surgery. The notes record that on 
examination, his blood pressure was 152/92mmHg and a diagnosis of Hypertension, stage 1 
is given. Mr S was referred for further tests - an ECG, blood and urine tests and a 24-hour 
blood pressure monitor.  
In a follow-up appointment later the same month, Mr Ss GP advised him about lifestyle 
changes. And in a further follow-up in October 2017, the 24-hour blood pressure reading 
was recorded as 135/98mmHg and other tests were noted to be normal. The diagnosis of 
Hypertension was recorded and under the section plan, the GP notes advised stage 1 
hypertension, lifestyle measures reinforcedannual review for bp.  
I find that the questions asked were clear and in light of the medical evidence it was 
reasonable of Vitality to conclude that Mr S failed to answer the questions correctly. Im not 
persuaded by Rs arguments that Mr S wouldnt have understood the medical language 
used. Given the medical evidence of Mr S receiving lifestyle advice and the referral for 
further tests - including the wearing of a blood pressure monitor - Im satisfied it was fair for 
Vitality to conclude Mr S ought reasonably to have been aware that his blood pressure was 
raised. But even if I were wrong about that, I consider Mr S should then have answered the third 
question regarding additional investigations/tests positively. Although the initial consultation 
and referral was more than two years before the policy was taken out, the 24-hour blood 
pressure monitor and consultation to discuss the results of the test were within the two-year 
period. Consequently, I think Vitality acted fairly in treating the misrepresentations as 
qualifying ones under CIDRA.
 
Vitality has provided evidence of its underwriting criteria to show what wouldve happened 
had Mr S answered the questions correctly. Ive noted that cover would still have been 
offered in relation to the smoking non-disclosure, but smoker rates wouldve been applied at 
+75%. 
However, had Mr Ss raised blood pressure been disclosed, Vitality has shown it would not 
have accepted the application at that stage but would have requested an up-to-date reading. 
The additional investigation/tests question would also have resulted in a postponement for 
an up-to-date blood pressure reading. Based on an actual reading provided by Mr S in 
November 2019 of no less than 177/125mmHg, and applying its underwriting criteria 
retrospectively, Vitality has said that cover would have been declined. 
Ive noted that in its claim decline letter of November 2021, Vitality concluded there was not 
sufficient care taken when applying for cover. And in a response to an enquiry from our 
investigator in July 2022, Vitality said the misrepresentation was treated as deliberate. 
Mr S was sent welcome information directing him to his online account where he could view 
his policy documents and check that all the information hed provided was correct. Im 
satisfied he had the opportunity to do this and to advise Vitality of any inaccuracies. In all the 
circumstances I dont think Vitality was wrong to conclude that Mr S had made a deliberate 
misrepresentation. 
Vitality has shown that this made a difference and had it known Mr Ss full medical history it 
would not have offered a policy. Under CIDRA it was entitled to avoid the policy. I note that 
Vitality refunded the premiums paid, something it didnt need to do where the 
misrepresentation was deliberate. 
In light of everything, I think Vitality has acted fairly in declining the claim on Mr Ss life policy 
and I dont think it needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold the estate of Mr Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman