DRN-2214012
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A, trading as G, complain that Builders Direct SA unfairly declined a claim under 
their commercial insurance policy. References to Builders Direct in my decision include their 
agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A held a commercial insurance policy insured by Builders Direct. When their 
business had to close in line with the national governments measures to control the spread 
of Covid-19, they made a claim under the business interruption section of their policy. 
Builders Direct said Mr and Mrs A werent covered. They said this was because Covid-19 
wasnt one of the prescribed diseases listed in the exhaustive list of 'Notifiable Diseases' 
within the Policy. They explained, Notifiable Disease is a defined term within the policy. It is 
not a generic term which encompasses all notifiable diseases. They said it wasnt their 
intention to include cover for diseases which became notifiable at a later date. 
Mr and Mrs A disagreed. They said their policy covered them for business interruption 
caused by an infectious disease, or by closure of their business by the government due to 
an outbreak of one. So, they referred their complaint to our service. 
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. He acknowledged the impact the 
Covid-19 pandemic has had on their business, but he thought Builders Direct had acted 
fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining their 
claim. 
He said thered been no physical loss or destruction or damage caused by an event set out 
in the operative cover or which prevented or hindered access to the business premises. He 
also said they wouldnt be covered under the Infectious Diseases part of the policy 
because it covered only the specified list of diseases included within the policy, not all 
notifiable diseases. He didnt think Builders Direct had intended to cover all notifiable 
diseases. 
Responses to the view
Mr and Mrs A asked for their case to be reconsidered because of the significant impact the 
Covid-19 restrictions have had on their livelihood. They said they should be covered 
because, an infectious disease is an infectious disease no matter what its name is and the 
policy couldnt have specified Covid-19 because it didnt exist when the policy was written. 
They also referred to court rulings in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) test case, 
which they said should mean their claim is paid. 
Builders Direct agreed with the investigators view. However, having checked Mr and Mrs As 
policy schedule again, they explained theyd made an error and that Mr and Mrs A didnt, in 
fact, have the policy extension which included cover for business interruption caused by 
closure of premises as a result of a notifiable disease. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr and Mrs As policy schedule and agreed with Builders Direct 
that their cover didnt include the relevant extension. He explained this to them and 
reiterated his view that even if the Infectious Diseases extension was included, it wouldnt 
provide cover in the circumstances. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been put to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact Covid-19 
restrictions have had on Mr and Mrs As business, I wont be upholding their complaint. My 
reasons are substantially the same as the investigators.
I understand that Mr and Mrs A closed their business in March 2020 due to the government-
imposed lockdown. The nature of their business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed 
to stay open after this time. So, the type of cover theyre looking to claim under is business 
interruption insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy Mr and Mrs A took out.
Having looked at the policy schedule provided by Mr and Mrs A (which matches the copy we 
were provided by Builders Direct), I can see that their policy included Business Interruption 
cover and listed the operative parts of the cover as A/B/C/D.
These letters referred to four different covers listed in the policy document in Section 5  
Business Interruption under the sub-heading The Operative Cover. Each included different 
potential causes of business interruption or peril. For example, Cover A included the perils 
of fire, explosion, and riot, and Cover C included the perils of storm and flood, and 
subsidence, ground heave or landslip.
The next sub-heading in the policy document, Extensions, described cover for business 
interruption caused by five other potential risks to business continuity  a) Suppliers  
b) Denial of Access  c) Public Utilities  d) Customers  e) Infectious Diseases . The 
Infectious Diseases paragraph explained it included cover for business interruption caused 
by:
the closure of the Premises or part thereof on the order or advice of any local or 
government authority as a result of an outbreak or occurrence of:
(i) a Notifiable Disease manifested by any person whilst at the Premises.
(ii) an outbreak of a Notifiable Disease within 25 miles of the Premises 
However, turning back to Mr and Mrs As policy schedule, the only extensions listed as being 
included are Denial of Access and Public Utilities. So, I cant say that the policy they 
bought included the extension cover for business interruption caused by Infectious 
Diseases. And, as thats the case, I dont think Builders Direct acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by declining their claim. Whats happened, as devastating to their business as 
its been, is simply not something Mr and Mrs A had any cover for under this policy.
As I dont think Mr and Mrs A had the business interruption insurance extension relating to 
Infectious Diseases its not necessary for me to reach a finding about whether it was fair 
and reasonable for Builders Direct to decide that extension wouldnt respond to their claim 
for business interruption caused by Covid-19 and the government lockdown.However, although I dont think Mr and Mrs A had as part of their policy the business 
interruption insurance extension relating to Infectious Diseases, I note that Builders Direct 
responded to their claim as if they did have. Builders Direct explained why that extension 
wouldnt respond to any interruption caused to their business by Covid-19. So, Ive gone on 
to consider whether, if Mr and Mrs A had had that extension, it would still have been fair and 
reasonable for Builders Direct to decline their claim.
The part of the policy document relating to Business Interruption began with a section titled 
Definitions. For the term Notifiable disease it said:
means illness sustained by any person resulting from any of the following:
Acute Encephalitis / Acute Poliomyelitis / Anthrax / Chickenpox / Cholera / Diphtheria 
/ Dysentery / Ebola / Erysipelas / Legionellosis / Legionnaires Disease / Leprosy / 
Leptospirosis / Lyme Disease / Malaria / Measles / Meningitis / Meningococcal 
Infection / Mumps / Opthalmia Neonatorum / Paratyphoid Fever / Puerperal Fever / 
Plague / Rabies / Relapsing Fever / Rubella / Scarlet Fever / Smallpox / Tetanus / 
Toxoplasmosis / Tuberculosis / Typhoid Fever / Typhus Fever / Viral Hepatitis / Viral 
Haemorrhagic / Whooping Cough / Yellow Fever.
Having considered the policy definition of the term Notifiable disease, Im not persuaded 
this section of the policy would have provided Mr and Mrs A with cover. This is because 
Covid-19 isnt one of the specified diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid-19 isnt something Builders Direct are 
likely to have known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes 
anything. Thats because I dont think Builders Direct intended to, or suggested they would, 
provide cover for all diseases that might be added to a government defined, regularly 
updated list. Builders Direct deliberately chose to define Notifiable disease by reference to 
a static list of specified diseases. I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that 
are included, I think its an exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it 
provides cover for other diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of the diseases 
listed in the policy definition of Notifiable disease. There are many potential illnesses and 
diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of 
Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all 
diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
For completeness Ive also thought about whether Mr and Mrs A had cover under any other 
part of their policy. According to the policy schedule they had cover if buildings or property 
used for the business were damaged by any of the causes described in the Operative 
Cover, and that damage led to the interruption of the business. The policy definition of 
damage being physical loss or destruction or damage.
The causes described in operative covers A to D were, as highlighted above, defined perils 
such as fire, riot, earthquake, theft, subsidence and burst water pipes. However, nothing in 
those sections extends to interruption of the business caused by way of a disease such as 
Covid-19, or even a government-imposed act. Rather they refer to physical damage in 
different shapes and forms.
Mr and Mrs A also had the extensions for Denial of Access and Public Utilities but I dont 
think either of these extensions helps them in the circumstances here. This is because these 
terms respectively require access to their business premises to have been prevented or 
hindered by damage to property in the vicinity of their premises, and for their business to have been interrupted because of damage to property at the premises of their utility 
suppliers. These things didnt happen, so the terms dont apply to the circumstances.
The FCA Litigation
Mr and Mrs A have said the outcome of the FCAs litigation should be interpreted in their 
favour. But, as our investigator has explained, their policy isn't one which is impacted by the 
findings of that litigation for the reasons set out on the FCAs website; namely that the test 
case wasnt seeking to resolve coverage issues relating to clauses that have an exhaustive 
list of diseases which dont include Covid-19. The Infectious Diseases policy extension 
contained such a clause which Ive referred to more specifically above. So, my decision isnt 
impacted by the outcome of that litigation.
Overall and for the reasons set out above, I dont think Builders Direct acted unfairly by 
declining Mr and Mrs As claim for cover. I know Mr and Mrs A will be deeply disappointed by 
this outcome, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why their policy 
doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of their claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A 
trading as G, to accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman