DRN-3254330
The complaint
Ms W complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans acted 
irresponsibly when it gave her an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Ms W took out a single loan with Everyday Loans as follows:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableLoan 
status
20/9/2018 £2,000 18 
months£235.54 4,239.72 Outstanding
Ms W mainly complained that Everyday Loans didnt properly check her income and bank 
statements when she had another loan and a gambling history. 
After a full investigation, our adjudicator ultimately didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint. Ms W 
disagreed with our adjudicators view so her complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. Id like to reassure Ms W that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and 
Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain why I say 
this.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive thought carefully about what this all means for Ms Ws complaint. 
Everyday Loans asked Ms W about her income and recorded a figure of around £1,621 
which it worked out based on an average of her recent pay plus benefits she received. 
Everyday Loans also carried out credit checks to gain an understanding of Ms Ws credit 
history and her current credit commitments. These showed that Ms W owed £361 on an 
unsecured loan and a further £622 on credit cards. Everyday Loans was also able to look 
at some recent bank statements which Ms W provided as part of the loan application 
process. 
When assessing affordability, Everyday Loans noted that Ms W didnt pay any housing 
costs  another member of her household paid the mortgage. It also relied on statistical 
information and factored into its calculations an amount that reflected the typical monthly 
expenditure someone in Ms Ws position might reasonably expect to pay. As well as this, 
Everyday Loans included an extra buffer for any minor fluctuations in Ms Ws income or 
expenses or in case she needed to meet an unplanned expense. 
Everyday Loans calculated that Ms W needed to pay around £71 per month towards her 
existing credit commitments and her total monthly expenditure was around £781 on these 
figures. So Everyday Loans worked out that her disposable income would be around £604 
after paying for her new loan with Everyday Loans.
I think the checks undertaken by Everyday Loans were proportionate in the circumstances 
and that it was reasonable to conclude that the loan repayments looked like they shouldve 
been comfortably affordable for Ms W based on the information it had gathered.
I think its fair to say that from a responsible lenders point of view, Ms Ws total 
indebtedness wouldnt have seemed unreasonable or excessive for someone in Ms Ws 
position. The bank statements Everyday Loans saw, which can give a useful insight into 
someones overall financial situation, mainly showed that Ms W seemed to be managing her 
money reasonably well. I dont think they showed enough to suggest that Ms W was facing 
serious problems managing her money. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application if the loan otherwise 
looked affordable. Also, whilst some limited evidence of gambling was apparent on the bank 
statements Everyday Loans saw, it didnt look like this spending was excessive or out of 
control  Ms W had money in her bank account to cover this spending, the amount was well 
within the disposable income Everyday Loans affordability calculations suggested she had 
and it was up to Ms W to decide how she wanted to spend this. 
All in all, I wouldnt have expected the information Everyday Loans saw in its credit checks 
and on the bank statements Ms W provided to have given Everyday Loans any particular 
cause for concern.
I've also taken into account that Everyday Loans understood that the loan was intended in 
the immediate short term to pay some fees Ms W had to meet but then it was going to form 
part of an overall plan for debt consolidation  in other words, Ms W said she would use the 
loan to repay other debt . I think in these circumstances Everyday Loans was reasonably 
entitled to take a view that this suggested Ms W was borrowing with a view to help her 
manage her finances more efficiently and responsibly. It looked like she ought to be able to 
afford to do that on the figures it worked out. And the loan would have been enough to clear all of the outstanding debt Everyday Loans 
saw on the credit checks it obtained and help with fees. Using the loan to repay credit cards 
couldve saved on credit card interest as it looks like Ms W was often making only minimum 
monthly repayments to her cards which adds very significantly to the long term cost of that 
credit  repayments at that level are insufficient to make any meaningful inroads into card 
balances. Even if she hadnt used the loan for debt consolidation it appeared that the loan 
monthly repayments should still be comfortably affordable for her out of disposable income.
To sum up, I dont think there was enough in the information that Everyday Loans could see 
that wouldve made it realise that Ms W couldnt afford to pay this loan in a sustainable way. 
I think the checks that Everyday Loans carried out before it agreed to provide the loan were 
proportionate and that it was entitled to rely on the information it acquired which showed 
that this loan looked sustainably affordable for Ms W.
Im sorry that Ms W finds herself in financial difficulty. I accept that Ms Ws financial 
situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information she provided or the other 
information Everyday Loans obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be 
able to say a lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way. And whilst I can see that 
Ms W took out a further loan for £550 with another provider of high cost credit the same 
day she obtained this loan, Everyday Loans couldnt have known about this at the time. 
It looks like a run of gambling transactions followed a few days after the loan was paid into 
her bank account. But I cant fairly say this was reasonably foreseeable based on Ms Ws 
track record seen by Everyday Loans  especially as she had given a plausible 
explanation for needing the loan and her previous gambling spending had been more 
moderate. 
Looked at overall, I dont think that Everyday Loans did anything wrong in deciding to lend 
to Ms W. It did sufficient checks in the particular circumstances of this loan application and 
made a fair lending decision based on the information it obtained. So I havent identified 
any reasons that mean it would be fair for me to make any award of redress against 
Everyday Loans and theres nothing it needs to do to put things right. I appreciate that my 
decision is going to disappoint Ms W. But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done 
will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
Ms W has sent me some information from her doctor and I am sorry that she has been 
through such a difficult time. I expect Everyday Loans to work constructively with Ms W and 
to treat her positively and sympathetically if she is continuing to experience financial 
difficulty. I would encourage Ms W to provide details of her financial situation to Everyday 
Loans if she still needs time to pay the outstanding balance on the loan. And if Ms W would 
like help to manage her finances theres more information about how to get free debt advice 
and other support on our website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint and I make no award against 
Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman