DRN-3557154
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the delays he experienced when attempting to receive the maturity 
proceeds for a savings plan, he held with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and were set out in my 
provisional decision, so I am not going to describe them again here.
My provisional decision
Mr P has shown he had a completed and witnessed Deed of Assignment from 2001. 
However, I havent been provided with enough evidence to show that this was given to Aviva 
at that time for them to action. 
Mr P correctly contacted Aviva in January 2020 to find out what he would need to do to 
receive the proceeds of the plan upon its impending maturity. This was made more difficult 
for him by the fact that he was working out of the country. I can see that Aviva responded to 
him and made him aware what he would have to provide. I am satisfied that this was all 
correct and necessary. 
However, Mr P did provide a copy of the Deed of Assignment at this time and Aviva admit 
that it was received but not actioned. Nor did they ask for the further verification that was 
needed. This caused an avoidable delay to Mr P receiving the maturity proceeds and Aviva 
werent able to pay this out in March 2020. I am satisfied that if Aviva had done as they 
should have, upon receipt of the deed in January 2020, Mr P should have been able to 
receive the money when the plan matured. 
Aviva seem to have acknowledged this error. The proceeds werent sent until July 2020, but 
they have added backdated interest from the date of maturity. However, I dont agree with 
this figure. Aviva have said that it was calculated using a return on the amount of the Bank of 
England base rate +1%. Aviva had deprived Mr P from the use of these funds. But as Mr P 
hasnt said he was to reinvest them, Aviva should be compensating him at the rate for 
deprivation of use of funds, which is 8%. 
Aviva have also offered Mr P £75 for the error in not processing the documents sooner. 
However, I think the impact to Mr P warrants a higher award. There were also errors with 
misinformation and not always responding to Mr P in a timely manner. 
Mr P is unhappy that further verification was sought after he provided the deed. However, I 
am satisfied with Avivas explanation of why this was necessary. Mr P also thinks he should 
be compensated for Aviva contacting his daughter, despite his request not to. However, I 
havent seen any evidence of this request and the contact was part of their necessary trace. 
Mr P says he also instructed support from a legal firm to obtain the proceeds from Aviva and 
wants compensating for this. However, this isnt something we would usually award for and I 
dont think its warranted in this case, as Mr P took the decision to obtain this help. 
Mr P appears to have provided everything that was asked of him, prior to maturity. Due to 
errors and delays by Aviva this wasnt actioned and a trace for the former joint policy holder 
doesnt appear to have been carried out until June 2020. I think a more appropriate award of 
compensation would be £150.
In summary, whilst Aviva have acknowledged errors and delays, I dont think they have 
calculated the financial loss at the right rate and it should be 8%. I also think that as Mr P 
provided what was required in January 2020, but the proceeds were not paid until July 2020, 
due in the main to Avivas errors, this warrants a payment for the distress and inconvenience 
caused of £150. 
Aviva didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
Mr P responded to say that he was still not in agreement with the redress I had proposed. 
His points of response included:
Hed flown to the UK from abroad to provide the documentation. Whilst Aviva had 
suggested posting this, he wanted to ensure no issues at maturity. 
He maintains that the deed of assignment was not accepted without any legal basis. 
He felt the impact through unnecessarily contacting his daughter had not been 
properly recognised.
He had endured legal costs which he felt was necessary to obtain the funds. 
Property prices were increasing at the time and that was what the funds were 
intended for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I acknowledge the points raised by Mr P, I had considered them in 
the whole and I am satisfied the redress I have proposed is fair. Mr P chose to fly to ensure 
delivery of the documentation and I cant hold Aviva responsible for that. Nor can I hold them 
responsible for Mr P choosing to pay legal costs. 
We award compensation at 8% for loss of use of funds. I feel this is fair and in this case fairly 
compensates him for the time he was deprived of the funds. It takes into account costs such 
as rising prices. In regard to his point on the impact on his daughter. As I said in my 
provisional decision, I havent seen any evidence of them being told not to contact her and 
they did so as part of a necessary trace. I think this was reasonable. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. To put things right, Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited should:
 Pay Mr P interest at a rate of 8% from the date of maturity in March 2020, until the date the 
proceeds were released in July 2020. Less the amount of interest already paid. 
 Pay Mr P £150 for the distress and inconvenience these errors caused, less the £75 
offered if it has already been paid. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman