DRN-4292449
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, unfairly turned 
down his claim made about something bought using his credit card.
What happened
In 2016, Mr T alongside his wife, took out a holiday club membership with a business Ill call 
Business H. This was paid by Mr and Mrs H trading in an existing timeshare agreement 
and by Mr H making a payment of £4,495 using his Barclaycard.1 But this credit card 
payment wasnt made directly to Business H, rather it went to a different business Ill call 
Business F.
Mr T contacted Barclaycard to dispute the transaction as he said he was unable to book 
holidays from Business H as promised. In fact, the only holidays available were in Winter, 
which werent suitable for Mr and Mrs T. Mr T explained what had gone wrong and said he 
felt the membership was mis-sold or misrepresented.
Barclaycard considered what Mr T had said and treated it as a claim made under s.75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). It explained to Mr T that, as he paid Business F and not 
Business H, there werent the right arrangements in place for the CCA to apply to this 
transaction. But Barclaycard also treated Mr Ts claim as a complaint and explained that he 
could bring that complaint to our service.
Unhappy with what Barclaycard said, Mr T referred his complaint to our service. He 
explained in detail his concerns with Business H, reiterating what was said before, but also 
alleging there had been a high-pressured sale and that Business H had breached its 
contract with him and his wife. Additionally, Mr T said it was plain that Business F collected 
payment for Business H, so he thought Barclaycard should be responsible for his claim.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint, but didnt think Barclaycard needed to do 
anything further. He considered the relationship between Business H and Business F and 
thought Business F werent supplying any service to Mr T, so it was acting as a payment 
processor for Business H. The adjudicator went on consider the substance of the claim 
under s.75 CCA, but didnt think there was enough to say there was a misrepresentation for 
which Barclaycard had to answer. He also looked at s.140A CCA, but didnt think there was 
enough to say there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship arising out of the holiday club 
purchase. So he concluded that Barclaycard didnt need to do anything more to resolve the 
complaint.
Mr T didnt agree with the view and asked for the matter to be looked at again by an 
ombudsman, explaining in more detail the problems that hed had with the membership.
I considered all of the evidence and arguments and, having done so, didnt think Mr Ts 
complaint should have been upheld. But as I thought that for different reasons to our 
adjudicator, I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts and asking for any further 
1 Although the holiday club membership was in the joint names of Mr and Mrs T, as the credit card 
used was in Mr Ts name only, the complaint is his alone to bring to our service
comments or arguments before I issued a final decision.
An extract of that provisional decision reads:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And when doing so, Im required 
by DISP 3.6.4 R of the FCA Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
When Mr T made his complaint, he didnt set out the legal or regulatory basis for 
doing so. Im not surprised by that as Im not aware that Mr T has any legal training, 
nor is he represented by a professional claims management company. Here, he said 
something had gone wrong with something he bought using his credit card and he 
thought Barclaycard was responsible for putting right any problems. Barclaycard, in 
turn, looked at what was being complained about and treated it as a claim made 
under s.75 CCA. I think that was a sensible thing for Barclaycard to do as that is the 
normal way a lender can be made liable for things that go wrong when something is 
bought with credit.
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 
12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any 
claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, 
shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor
s.12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is 
made by the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of 
future arrangements, between himself and the supplier
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the 
supplier) other than the creditor.
The upshot of this is that there needs to be a D-C-S agreement in place for the 
lender (here  Barclaycard) to be liable to the borrower (here Mr T) for the 
misrepresentations or breaches of contract of the supplier (here Business H). But, on 
the face of it, there is no such relationship as Business H wasnt paid directly using 
the credit card, rather the payment was taken by Business F.
There are ways in which there can be a D-C-S agreement in place, even if the 
supplier isnt paid directly using a credit card. But since out adjudicator issued their 
view, the law in this area has been clarified by the judgment in Steiner v. National Westminster Bank plc [2022] EWHC 2519 (KB) (Steiner). Steiner considered 
whether there was a D-C-S agreement in circumstances where Business F took 
payment on a credit card in relation to the purchase of timeshare membership from a 
business called C. The court considered the arrangements between the parties and 
concluded that, as the payment to C was made outside of the credit card network, in 
that instance there wasnt a D-C-S agreement in place.
The circumstances of Mr Ts case are very similar. Here, the same business 
(Business F) took payment for Mr Ts purchase of Business H holiday club 
membership. So, based on the judgment in Steiner, I think a court would come to a 
similar conclusion and say there was no D-C-S agreement in place and, so, no valid 
s.75 CCA claim.
Our adjudicator also considered whether there might be an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship between Mr T and Barclaycard arising out of the purchase. But again, I 
can only consider how the agreement between Mr T and Business H affected the 
fairness of the debtor- creditor relationship, if there was a valid D-C-S agreement in 
place. And, for the same reasons, I dont think it was, nor has Mr T suggested there 
was an unfair relationship for any other reason.
Under the rules set out above, I must take into account the law, but come to my own 
determination of what is fair and reasonable in any given complaint. Here, I dont 
think it would be fair to make Barclaycard responsible for Business Hs failures when 
the law doesnt impose such a liability  I cant see that Barclaycard and Business H 
were connected in any way nor is there any other reason to say Barclaycard should 
be responsible for Business Hs failings.
Although I understand Mr Ts concerns and I have some sympathy for the position in 
which he finds himself, for the reasons set out above, I cant say Barclaycard are 
responsible for the problems he had with Business H.
Neither Mr T, nor Barclaycard, responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no party has given me any further evidence or arguments to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. So, for the reasons set out above, I dont think 
Barclaycard needs to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman