DRN-1580739
 
The complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out by Mrs B in April 1993. The policy 
was added to Mrs Bs credit card account after she sent in an application in the post.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint for the following reasons:
I am persuaded Bank of Scotland made Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and 
she chose to take it. I say this because I can see on the application form she 
completed, that she wrote the word YES, in a separate box where Bank of Scotland 
offered PPI. Next to this is a statement on the form that says If you want to 
participate in credit care please write YES in the box.  So after seeing this, I think 
that Mrs B was given a choice to have PPI on the form and she agreed to it. If she 
didnt want the PPI policy she could have left the box blank.
 
As this was a postal sale, Bank of Scotland didnt provide advice to Mrs B so it didnt 
need to ensure that the policy was suitable for her. But it did have to ensure that the 
information it gave Mrs B was clear, fair and not misleading so that she could make 
an informed choice about the insurance.
 
When looking at the information provided on the form, I am not sure that it did. But 
even if it had provided clear information to Mrs B, I dont think it would have made a 
difference as I think he would have taken the PPI policy anyway.
 
I say this because, when looking at Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, I think he 
would have found the cover useful. She has told us that she was entitled to 6 months 
full sick pay and 6 months half sick pay with her employer at the time of sale, but the policy would have provided a useful benefit in a difficult time and for longer. The 
policy would have paid in addition to her sick pay, for up to an extended period of 12 
months if she couldnt work. So I think she would have found at least some benefit in 
having the cover.
 
I also dont think on this occasion Mrs B was affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations such as those given for pre-existing medical conditions.
 
Im not sure if the costs were clearly disclosed to Mrs B. But I think she wouldve 
taken the policy anyway even if they were for the same reasons that I have already 
given. The PPI policy was competitively priced and affordable.  
 
So I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold Mrs B this PPI policy. This means Bank of 
Scotland dont have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to her. But Bank of Scotland has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because Bank of 
Scotland didnt tell Mrs B, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 
my decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman