DRN-3031038
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs M says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that because NatWest 
told us that the commission for Mrs Ms PPI was less than 50% of what she paid, NatWest 
didnt need to pay back any of the commission she paid for the PPI.
Mrs Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided NatWest didnt need to tell Mrs M 
about the commission it received - so NatWest doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Mrs M paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think NatWest made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because NatWest has provided a copy of Mrs Ms PPI application 
from 2003  a separate and distinct application from her mortgage application. I can see 
Mrs M also signed a separate direct debit mandate to allow the PPI premiums to be 
taken from her bank account. Because Mrs M had to complete these separate forms, I 
dont think she would have been under the impression that she had to have PPI.
So taking everything into account, I think Mrs M likely chose to take out PPI and did so 
without undue pressure.
Its not disputed that NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M - so it didnt have to 
check that the PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs M enough 
clear and timely information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
I accept its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs M about the PPI overall wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been  for example Ive only seen the PPI application form so I 
dont know what other information Mrs M saw. But Ive found that she chose to take it out 
- so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for 
Mrs M  for example she was eligible for the cover and there was nothing about her 
employment or occupation which would have made it difficult for her to claim. 
Although Mrs M says she had a medical condition sometime before the policy was taken 
out, on balance I dont think better information about the existing medical condition 
exclusion wouldve caused her to change her mind about taking out the policy. I say this 
because Mrs M, through her representative originally told us that she suffered with her 
condition circa 2003.  So based on this information its possible this might have 
happened after Mrs M took out the policy. But if I accept it happened just prior to the 
sale, Mrs M would only have been prevented from making a claim for her condition for 
the first 12 months of cover. So given what shes said about how her condition affected 
her - and given the PPI was protecting a long-term debt - I dont think Mrs M would have 
been put off had she been told anything more.
That said, Mrs Ms representative later said that she suffered with her condition around 
2000  so some three years prior to the sale. This means Mrs M might have been 
excluded from making a claim for her condition if this was the case. Mrs Ms 
representative also told us something slightly different about the impact it had on Mrs M 
and the amount of time off work she had as a result of her condition. So there is 
conflicting evidence here.
But taking everything into account, I think Mrs M would still have gone ahead in any 
event.  Mrs M was taking on borrowing secured on her home and she was solely 
responsible for it. In addition the policy didnt place any additional restrictions or 
limitations for claims relating to mental health or back conditions and it also looks like the 
policy was affordable. 
So overall, I consider that Mrs M would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. 
These general points include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly 
applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant NatWest 
should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided NatWest didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so 
NatWest doesnt need to do pay back any of the commission Mrs M paid. My reasons are 
set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mrs Ms representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs M should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: NatWest failed to tell Mrs M about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs M wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But in this case, NatWest has told us that the commission for Mrs Ms PPI was less than half 
of what she paid for each premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mrs Ms case was less than 
half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipPlevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think NatWest needed to tell Mrs M about the commission. So it follows that I dont 
think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think NatWest treated Mrs M 
unfairly. 
This means NatWest doesnt need to pay Mrs M back any of the commission she paid for 
the PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Ms complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt need to disclose the 
commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mrs M paid for 
the PPI.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman