DRN-3151495
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way a claim he made was handled on a legal expenses insurance 
policy provided by Amtrust Europe Limited.
Mr Hs concerns are about the conduct of A, who handle the claim and administer 
complaints on Amtrusts behalf. Where I refer to Amtrust within this decision, this includes A.
What happened
Mr H has made a claim relating to an employment dispute on his legal expenses insurance 
policy which is provided by Amtrust.
Mr H made a complaint about the way the claim was being handled in 2017 and referred that 
complaint to our service. We considered that Amtrusts actions up to that point had been 
reasonable. 
Mr H referred a further complaint to our service in 2021. He remained unhappy that Amtrust 
was requesting information to be able to consider whether the claim was covered. Our 
investigator didnt think Amtrust had acted unfairly. She thought it was reasonable for 
Amtrust to request information in order to be able to carry out checks into whether the policy 
provided cover for Mr Hs claim. Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr H referred his previous complaint to our service in 2017, we concluded that it was 
reasonable for Amtrust to request information in order to assess cover under the policy. 
Amtrust says that this information still hasnt been provided to date by Mr H. He doesnt 
seem to dispute that he hasnt sent Amtrust the requested information, but says that the 
requests are unfair and not needed as Amtrust has confirmed cover for the claim.
So it seems to me that the question which is central to my decision is whether its reasonable 
for Amtrust to request the information from Mr H.
Im satisfied from my review that Amtrusts requests have been reasonable and that the 
information is required in order for it to complete its checks into whether Mr Hs claim is 
covered.
The original intention on receipt of this information was for it to be provided to one of 
Amtrusts panel solicitors so that they could carry out an assessment of whether Mr Hs 
claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success and whether it was proportionate to proceed 
with the claim. Even though the information wasnt provided, the intended solicitors have 
indicated that theyd be unable to act for Mr H due to a conflict of interest. 
Amtrust has said that, in the circumstances, on receipt of the required information it will send 
the required details to a barrister so that they can assess the claims prospects of success. If 
that assessment is favourable then its agreed that (subject to the agreement of terms) Mr H 
can appoint his preferred solicitors to represent him, with the reasonable costs being met by 
Amtrust.
I cant see how any of Amtrusts actions here are unreasonable or unfair on Mr H. Im 
satisfied that its entitled to make reasonable requests for information in order to confirm that 
cover is in place on the policy. I dont think that any of the information requested is unusual 
or places an undue burden on Mr H in providing it.
I know that Mr H takes the view that the correspondence from Amtrust says that his claim is 
covered and so Amtrust cant request the information it has done, as that should only be 
shared with solicitors representing him to protect legal privilege. I dont agree. Any claim on 
a policy of this type will go through a two step process. 
The first is to assess whether cover is available within the terms of the policy (for example 
that the subject matter is listed in the terms and condition and that the incident giving rise to 
the claim occurred within the dates of cover) and the second is a legal assessment to 
confirm that there are reasonable prospects of success and that the costs of pursuing the 
claim are proportionate. It seems to me that everything requested by Amtrust is reasonably 
required in order to carry out this two step process.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman