DRN-3317498
The complaint
Mrs P is complaining Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc hasnt reduced the amount she owes on a 
fixed sum loan agreement she took out to purchase some patio doors and windows. She 
brings the claim under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75).
What happened
In June 2019 Mrs P arranged for a window supplying company  who I shall refer to as A  
to visit her house to discuss installing some new glass patio doors. She was unsure whether 
to have French doors or patio doors, so A quoted for both. Following this, she agreed to the 
work at a contracted price of £3,727.64. 
Around a week later, one of As surveyors visited the house to measure up the space. 
During this visit, Mrs P says she decided she wanted the doors to match the design at the 
front of the house and asked for different doors with Georgian bars. However, she says the 
surveyor told her a salesman would have to come out to discuss the change in price with 
her. She signed the surveyors report.
Mrs P received a text message from A a further week later saying it had started to build the 
doors. The next day she received a voicemail from As salesman saying hed been round to 
discuss the new price, but there had been no answer. Mrs P says she had been in bed 
unwell that day due to pregnancy so hadnt heard him. The salesman came round again a 
few days later and explained the change to the design would cost a further £1,315. Mrs P 
didnt want to pay that and says she explained she wanted to revert to the original design. 
But she says the salesman told her this wasnt possible as the manufacture of the doors had 
already started. Mrs P says the salesman told her that her only option was to sign the 
contract and make a complaint after the doors were installed. She said she had no choice 
but to sign the contract as she needed the work done.
The doors were later installed and Mrs P signed to say she was happy with the installation. 
But a few days later she complained to A about what had happened and she said she 
wanted the contract price to revert to the originally agreed price. She thinks A used 
underhand tactics misleading her into entering the contract at the inflated price. She also 
complained about the way A priced contracts in general.
Mrs P says one of As complaint handlers later called her in response to the complaint and 
he said, as shed signed the contract, she was bound by it. She says this person was rude 
and threatening.
Mrs P later complained to Hitachi about what had happened, but Hitachi referred her back to 
A. 
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint as he didnt think was fair for A to start 
manufacturing the goods before Mrs P was aware of the cost and he thought it had misled 
her into agreeing to this increased price. However, he didnt think it would be fair to require 
Hitachi to match the original quoted price because shed still benefited from doors that were 
fitted and shed them installed for a number of years. Instead, he thought Hitachi should pay 
Mrs P £300 in compensation.
Mrs P didnt accept the investigators opinion as she didnt think £300 was a sufficient 
reduction. She said, this only reduced the increase to around £1,000 which she wouldnt 
have agreed to. She maintained that she expected a small price increase, but she would 
never have agreed to the changes had she known how much extra it would have cost.  
Hitachi accepted the investigators opinion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and Ill now explain why.
Firstly, I note Mrs P has raised a number of concerns about As sales practices in general. A 
is not a party to this complaint so Im unable to consider any complaint about the way A 
acted in general  including her complaint about As general sales practices and the way it 
handled her complaint. In this decision, Im only considering Hitachis actions in its handling 
of Mrs Ps S75 claim.
Mrs P paid for these doors through a fixed sum loan agreement. S75 sets out that in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, Hitachi is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
Further to this, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S56) has the effect of making A 
the agent of Hitachi during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs P entering into 
the loan agreement, starting from when she was first approached by A. Essentially, this 
means Hitachi is responsible for the acts or omissions of A in relation to the sale of the loan 
to Mrs P. In other words, Hitachi has to stand behind the things A said, did, didnt say, or 
didnt do during the sales process.
In this decision Ive thought about whether Hitachi has any liability to Mrs P for both breach 
of contract and misrepresentation.
Breach of contract
Theres no dispute about the quality of the work A did in fitting the patio doors and Mrs P has 
told us shes happy with them. But the issue is regarding how much she paid for them. Mrs P 
has paid the contracted price for the doors, so theres no breach of any express terms of the 
contract in respect to this. The issue for me to decide is whether she should have had to pay 
the amount she has paid, given she didnt know the cost of the extra work when she signed 
up for it.
Ive reviewed the confirmation of survey that Mrs P signed and she signed to agree to the 
following:
The Surveyor has discussed the Survey in full and I agree to the designs and all other 
details finalised during his visit. I confirm all special requirements and information relevant to 
the order, including everything that was discussed with the salesperson, has been disclosed. 
I therefore authorise [A] to proceed with the manufacture in accordance with my preferred 
delivery requirement and the terms and conditions of the contract.So Mrs P signed the contract to authorise A to start manufacturing the doors. So I cant say it 
acted unreasonably in doing so. 
Under the terms of the contract, Mrs P had the right to cancel it. But they further set out that 
Mrs P was liable for 80% of the purchase price in the event the manufacture had already 
started. So, as A had already started to manufacture the doors Mrs P was contractually 
required to either pay the full contracted price and have the doors installed, or pay 80% of 
the price, but wouldnt receive the doors. So, while I recognise Mrs P was unhappy with what 
the salesperson told her when she said she wanted to revert to the originally agreed price, I 
cant say this equated to a breach of contract.
However, Im also conscious Mrs P wasnt aware of the full contract price when she signed 
to agree to the additional works. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant here. And this 
sets out that where the contract didnt fix a price before it commenced the contract is to be 
treated as including a term that the consumer must pay a reasonable price for the service, 
and no more. So A cant charge more than a reasonable price for the additional works 
agreed. However, while I appreciate Mrs P says the additional cost is more than she 
expected to pay, Im also conscious it wasnt a minor change to the contract. And I havent 
seen anything to show that the price she was charged was unreasonable.
Ultimately, taking everything into consideration, I cant say that it was unreasonable for 
Hitachi to say A hadnt breached any terms of the contract  either express or implied terms.
Misrepresentation 
As I said above, S56 sets out that Hitachi is responsible for the acts or omissions of A in 
relation to the sale of the loan to Mrs P. During the survey report, Mrs P decided she wanted 
to have a different design so that the patio doors matched the front of her house. The 
surveyor processed the change but said a salesperson would need to come round to discuss 
the price. 
I acknowledge Mrs P signed the document to start the manufacture process. But I dont think 
she would have knowingly agreed to the work without knowing the contracted price. And I 
think A needed to make it clear to her that in signing the survey report, she couldnt 
subsequently change her mind  especially given she didnt know the contractual price. I 
think Mrs P has been consistent in what shes said in this respect and Im satisfied she 
wasnt told she couldnt change her mind, even if the price increase was too much. Im also 
persuaded that she wouldnt have paid the amount charged and would most likely have 
stayed with the original design had she known the true cost and been given a choice. So I 
think shes lost out as a result of whats happened.
So I now need to think about what Hitachi needs to do to put things right. Usually, where 
goods or services are misrepresented, businesses need to put the consumer back in the 
position theyd be in had the misrepresentation not taken place. However, in this case that 
would require Hitachi arranging for the patio doors installed to be removed and new ones 
made. But Im conscious the doors have already been in place for nearly three years so I 
dont think its practical to start all over again.
I note Mrs P wants a full refund of the additional cost shes paid  i.e. to pay the originally 
agreed contract price. But she has received and benefited from an enhanced product and its 
fair she has to pay for it. And, as I said above, Ive not seen anything to show that she paid 
an unreasonable price for this.
Taking everything into consideration, I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint is that 
Hitachi pays compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mrs P has suffered for not being told she couldnt withdraw the contract. The investigator thought £300 was fair and 
thats in line with what I would have awarded.
I recognise Mrs P doesnt think this sufficiently compensates her for her losses and I do 
understand her position here. I accept she didnt want to pay the amount she paid. But, as I 
said she has received the benefit of the patio doors and has paid a reasonable price for 
them. So I dont think I can say its unfair for Hitachi to require her to pay the contractual 
price. And Im satisfied £300 is fair compensation for whats gone wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to pay Mrs P £300 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman