DRN-4479230
The complaint
Miss Is complaint concerns information she was given about her ManyPets Ltd (ManyPets) 
pet insurance policy at the point of renewing her insurance. 
Shes also unhappy with delays in ManyPets paying out a pet insurance claim she made on 
her policy.
Miss I says ManyPets should properly compensate her for their actions which she says 
caused her considerable stress and inconvenience.  
What happened
Miss I had a pet insurance policy in place with ManyPets. At the point of renewal she had a 
telephone conversation with them to discuss taking out a new policy. In doing so the 
ManyPets representative provided her with different policy options- one being renewal on the 
same terms and another being an upgrade to the policy. During the call, the representative 
told Miss I that if she took out the upgrade continuous cover would be offered- that is to say 
that pre-existing conditions her pet had experienced would not be excluded. As a 
consequence, Miss I agreed to take out upgraded cover, but after the call she said she 
thought the information she was given by the representative wasnt right, so she called 
ManyPets back. When she did, ManyPets told her the information the previous advisor gave 
her was wrong and that the upgraded policy didnt offer continuous cover. As a result, Miss I 
asked for her policy to be reverted back to the same cover she had before, which ManyPets 
actioned. 
Miss I was also unhappy with the renewal figures she was given. In an earlier call with Many 
Pets she was told that the renewal price for both of her pets amounted to around £127 but 
when she called back and asked for one of her pets to be removed from the policy, the 
premium applied went up to around £102, when it was previously quoted as £82 on a 
standalone basis. Miss I was unhappy about the price increase. 
Many Pets considered Miss Is complaints and acknowledged that the service theyd 
provided fell below what they expected. They apologised and said theyd provided feedback 
to the representatives manager about the incorrect information she was given about the 
policy on renewal. In relation to the price fluctuation, ManyPets explained this was because 
a multi pet discount of 15% was applied to the first quote Miss I was given but when she 
removed one pet from the policy, the discount didnt apply. They apologised to Miss I that 
this wasnt properly explained to her. Overall, they offered her £50 in compensation for the 
poor service shed received.
In addition to these complaints, Miss I says that when she made a claim on the policy, it took 
ManyPets months to pay out her claim which caused her considerable stress and worry. She 
also said she was in debt as a result of having to fund the vets fees herself at this time. 
ManyPets apologised for this and offered Miss I a further £50 in compensation. Miss I 
remained unhappy so referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator considered Miss Is complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. She 
said that ManyPets had apologised where appropriate and paid compensation to put things 
right and this was enough in the circumstances. Miss I doesnt agree so the matter has been 
passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Miss Is complaint. This is why.
ManyPets have acknowledged that they did some things wrong- specifically that Miss I was 
given the wrong information when she called to renew her policy and that they should have 
explained why the 15% discount wasnt applicable if she decided to insure only one of her 
pets from the outset. Theyve also apologised for the delay in paying out a claim Miss I made 
on her policy. So, the issue for me to determine is whether what theyve offered to put things 
right is enough in the circumstances.
Miss I says that whats been offered- an apology, giving feedback to the representatives 
manager and paying £100 in compensation- doesnt go far enough. She feels this doesnt 
properly recognise the impact ManyPets actions had on her in her particular circumstances. 
She says that she had to spend time chasing ManyPets at a time when she was having 
medical investigations which were very worrying for her. She also says she was in debt as a 
result of her claim not being paid in a timely way and that this caused her considerable 
distress. 
Ive thought about everything Miss I has said, and I agree that ManyPets actions would have 
caused her both stress and inconvenience. But, as the investigator said I think what 
ManyPets have done to put things right is adequate in the circumstances. Ive set out my 
reasons below.
The misinformation Miss I was given about continuous cover was corrected when Miss I 
called ManyPets back and her cover was reverted to the same policy she previously had. I 
appreciate that Miss I had to instigate this by calling them back, but I dont think making one 
phone call to sort things out means that ManyPets need to compensate Miss I by paying her 
more than they already have. That payment recognises the inconvenience she was put to, 
which was corrected as soon as the issue was raised.
There was a good reason why the price applicable to Miss Is pet wasnt discounted when 
she chose to insure only one of them. I know the 15% multi pet discount wasnt explained to 
Miss I when she first asked for a quote, but Im not persuaded that the impact of not being 
told this from the outset warrants anymore compensation than ManyPets have already 
offered, nor that this has caused Miss I any significant detriment.
Miss I is most concerned about the delays in ManyPets paying her claim. From what Ive 
seen this was down to ManyPets not knowing that the vet that treated her pet was different 
to the one specified on the claim form, so they were asking for the pets medical history from 
the wrong vet. It was only when Miss I chased them that the issue was identified, following 
which the claim was paid immediately after the pets medical history was received from the 
correct vet. 
I know that Miss I feels that this issue should have been picked up before and the delay 
caused her inconvenience but from what I can see, it was reasonable for ManyPets to 
contact the vet specified on the claim form. That vet didnt respond to ManyPets. Had they 
done so and explained they werent the treating vet, ManyPets could have referred back to Miss I. But without knowing why they werent receiving the pets medial history, I cant say 
that they did anything wrong. Miss I says ManyPets should have cased the vet they 
contacted for a response. But given there was no response to the initial request, I cant say 
with any certainty that this wouldve made a difference. Shes also said that ManyPets 
should have contacted her to advise they werent receiving her pets medical history and that 
they didnt pursue the matter proactively. In addition, shes said that she only recently made 
a claim for a similar issue, so ManyPets should have had the correct vets details on file in 
their records. 
I appreciate that theres more ManyPets could have done but I also think its reasonable that 
they relied on the information given to them in the claim form by Miss I. And given they took 
action to progress and pay the claim as soon as they became aware of the mistake, I cant 
say that they should pay Miss I anymore than they already have. This accords with how we 
approach awards for compensation in similar circumstances. 
Whilst I know my decision will be disappointing for Miss I, I hope Ive provided her with a 
thorough explanation of why I wont be upholding her complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Is complaint against ManyPets Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman