DRN-2747485
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K feel that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS for short) 
has treated them unfairly with regard to financing a new car which they say was of 
unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr K and Mrs K took a new car from a dealership in July 2016 by paying a deposit and 
agreeing a four-year hire purchase agreement. The finance for this agreement was provided 
by MBFS, which is a separate legal entity to the manufacturer of the car and also the 
dealership which provided the car.
Mr K says that there were faults with the rear left braking system in October 2019 and then 
the rear right braking system in March 2020. Both of these issues were repaired by an 
independent garage using the manufacturers parts. Mr K wants MBFS to cover these costs 
which he has provided the invoices for. Mr K also says MBFS has treated him unfairly with 
regard to the payments towards the end of the agreement.
MBFS says that Mr K didnt get the repairs done at an authorised garage and that it hasnt 
had opportunity to assess what happened or the parts concerned. So it doesnt know how 
these issues came about so cant be held responsible for them. It notes that the finance 
agreement has been settled by Mr K and Mrs K and that it didnt treat them unfairly by taking 
the final large payment for the car because Mr K had told it that he intended to keep the car 
after the agreement ended. So MBFS doesnt think it has done anything wrong.
Mr K and Mrs K feel theyve been treated unfairly so they complained. But MBFS didnt 
agree, so they brought their dispute to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr K and Mrs K do not agree, and as they remain unhappy the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has made many arguments in this case and considered all matters to a high degree 
whilst complaining on his own behalf and that of Mrs K. To ensure clarity I shall address 
those issues that I consider to be key to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome in this 
dispute between these parties. I should start by making some points clear.
This decision is solely with regard to how MBFS has treated Mr K and Mrs K. It is not a 
decision about the independent garage, the dealership or the evidence Mr K has put forward 
from car experts or indeed what Mr K has said or did or didnt do. So although this 
investigation has considered evidence from many parties my sole role here is to decide if 
MBFS has treated Mr K and Mrs K fairly and if not, then how to resolve the matter fairly and 
reasonably to all parties.
I appreciate Mr K isnt happy with the way his complaint has been handled by this service. 
This decision will not consider these issues as Mr K has already had that process explained 
to him and who he can take his complaint about our service to. This decision is about how 
MBFS has treated Mr K and Mrs K.  
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory (as some of it is here) I 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr K asked about this and it is this civil test to be applied.
MBFS are the finance provider for the car under the Hire Purchase Agreement and so are 
responsible for handling complaints about the quality of the car supplied. And the relevant 
law says that the goods (a car in this case) need to be of a satisfactory quality. The relevant 
law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory considering any description of the goods, the price and 
all the other relevant circumstances. On this basis if I found the car to be faulty when 
supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory quality, Id think it fair and reasonable 
to ask MBFS to put this right.  But MBFS responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst 
they are responsible for its condition at the point of supply, they are not responsible for all 
faults that develop afterwards such as those relating to wear and tear.
Mr K says there were similar faults with the car in October 2019 and March 2020. He took 
the car to the independent garage who used the manufacturers parts and worked on the car. 
After the independent garage worked on the car the faults were no longer apparent. Hence 
he feels the car wasnt of satisfactory quality (specifically certain parts were insufficiently 
durable) at the time of entering the agreement and accordingly MBFS should cover those 
costs he incurred. He makes clear that as far as hes concerned to paraphrase one of his 
key arguments- the facts speak for themselves.
The Investigator has considered the matter and explained that Mr K by not taking the car to 
an authorised garage he didnt follow the terms of the agreement he and Mrs K had made 
with MBFS. And that by doing so meant that MBFS didnt have a fair opportunity to consider 
the faults or to repair them as the information from the independent garage is inadequate to 
understand the issues here on each occasion. The Investigator notes that the parts removed 
at the time of the faults are not available for analysis and that when asked the independent 
garage couldnt provide a detailed explanation of why it removed the parts and replaced 
them. Mr K has provided the independent garages invoices from the time which show it 
removed and replaced the parts but doesnt give any further persuasive information as to 
why or what the problem was. 
It is accepted by Mr K that these faults arose outside of the warranty period and hence the 
warranty he received on getting the car wouldnt help cover the costs incurred.
Mr K has provided evidence from two separate car experts whom Ive no reason to doubt 
their professional backgrounds or qualifications. But crucially neither of these experts had 
opportunity to inspect the parts removed from the car which Mr K says were insufficiently 
durable. Nor did they inspect the car at the times of the faults (October 2019 and March 
2020) when they could have seen how these faults presented in a detailed manner. Neither 
of these experts have provided what I would describe as being detailed records of a detailed 
inspection of the car or a detailed inspection of those parts of the car which immediately 
interact or are in close proximity to the parts Mr K says were insufficiently durable to support 
their arguments. Furthermore both reports outline at their basis that they are both predicated 
to some extent on what Mr K has told them that happened at the time. So although both 
reports and commentaries from these experts are clearly useful and both make clear such 
parts shouldnt fail in normal usage they do not demonstrate what happened to these particular parts or that they necessarily needed replacing. So Im not persuaded that they are 
as persuasive as Mr K suggests and I will not be allocating them decisive weighting in my 
considerations.
Had Mr K taken his car to an authorised garage when these faults arose then I think a more 
detailed analysis of what went wrong would have been available and I think it unlikely that 
this dispute would have got this far. And clearly it is not MBFS fault that Mr K didnt take the 
car to such an authorised garage bearing in mind this was part of the agreement.
I do not agree with Mr Ks summation that the facts speak for themselves in this matter as I 
think this is too simplistic considering the facts and circumstances. We do not have a precise 
understanding of what happened with the car which led Mr K to take it to the independent 
garage. So then we cannot conclude that the remedy that the independent garage provided 
(replacement and associated costs) was the only, most efficient or most appropriate solution 
to the issues Mr K experienced. After all MBFS and both of Mr Ks experts say such failure of 
these parts is rare. And for similar issues to happen on the same car twice would 
(presumably) be even more rare. Which then points to other factors possibly causing these 
issues outside of the durability of the parts under normal usage.
As Mr K, MBFS and the experts Mr K quotes have all stated such parts shouldnt need 
replacing at this stage in the life of this car under normal usage. But it doesnt necessarily 
follow that as those parts were replaced and the car now works that these parts were 
insufficiently durable and that is the only reason that they were replaced. These are complex 
systems and as the experts point out their comments are founded on the basis of what Mr K 
told them that had happened and their own knowledge of what generally happens in such 
systems rather than an inspection of the actual parts removed in this actual case. And it is 
possible that the process of replacing these parts and associated work rather than the actual 
changing of these parts themselves was what stopped the problems happening. We have no 
direct evidence, such as photographs or reports from the independent garage itself, to show 
that the removed parts werent durable.
And it is also of note that the fixes the independent garage chose for the two faults were 
different which could indicate differing problems. But, alas, the independent garages 
recollections and evidence of what happened at those times isnt as enlightening as all 
parties would wish.
Ultimately Mr K chose to go to an independent garage and get these issues fixed without 
speaking to MBFS about this until sometime afterwards. There is no persuasive evidence 
showing that what the independent garage did was the only remedy for these differing issues 
or what the nature of the problem was. So all in all I think MBFS position in not agreeing to 
cover these costs or agreeing that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at onset is fair. So I 
dont think it needs to do anymore in this regard.
For clarity I shall now address some of the other arguments Mr K has put forward.
Mr K points to case law, specifically a 1948 case which is well known for considering the 
unreasonableness of decisions. In essence he says that the Investigators position was so 
unreasonable that no sensible person could have arrived at it. I do not agree, and, in fact, I 
broadly agree with the Investigators position that there is no persuasive evidence that the 
car was of unsatisfactory quality when Mr K got it. The investigator is correct in that the onus 
is on Mr K here and Mr K has only established that parts were replaced. He has not shown 
on balance that they were defective when replaced nor that that they were insufficiently 
durable at the time he got the car. There remains a host of possible reasons for what has 
happened here and many of these would not be MBFSs responsibility. So I think Mr Ks argument about the reasonability of the decision regarding the fairness of MBFSs position to 
fall some way short of being persuasive. 
Mr K has pointed to a variety of sections of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and other related 
older legislation. Clearly this legislation has relevance here however due to the reasons 
explained weve not been able to establish on balance what happened here let alone that 
MBFS has a fault it ought to remedy. And my overriding duty is to ensure fair and reasonable 
decisions. 
Mr K points to content of motoring websites and makes the point that he shouldnt be obliged 
to use appointed garages. But to my mind this isnt the crux of this complaint and doesnt 
make a difference that he took it to another garage. If Mr K had shown on balance of 
probabilities that the car was unsatisfactory quality at the time he got it he would have been 
successful. He could have done this by going to a garage which kept the removed parts and 
kept proper records of its work (ideally including pictures).  But he hasnt been able to do that 
as he doesnt have the parts that were removed and the garage who did the work cant 
explain why they did what they did.
Mr K has said the MBFS hasnt dealt with his complaint fairly. This service looks into the 
merits of disputes but not how firms fulfil their regulatory obligations with regard to complaint 
handling. I hope this distinction is clear. And for the reasons given I do not think MBFS has 
treated Mr K and Mrs K unfairly in regard to these repairs.
With regard to the payments at the end of the agreement I note the evidence which MBFS 
has put forward showing Mr K had told it he wanted to keep the car. So I dont think treated 
him unfairly in taking the payment as outlined in the agreement made between the parties. I 
note when Mr K raised the matter it reversed the transaction and subsequently Mr K has 
settled the agreement as per the terms. So Im not persuaded that MBFS has treated Mr K 
unfairly in this regard.
MBFS has stated that no adverse information has been logged with credit reference 
agencies in relation to the payment at the end of the term. So they havent lost out because 
of this.
MBFS paid a goodwill gesture of £150 to Mr Ks account which he has since spent. It isnt 
entirely clear for what reason it did this. However I can see Mr K has raised the issue of 
customer service at that time and it appears he accepted this gesture and has since spent it.
All in all Im not persuaded on balance that MBFS has anything further to do here. 
Accordingly Mr Ks complaint is unsuccessful.
I appreciate this isnt the decision Mr K and Mrs K want to hear. But I see no persuasive 
reason to uphold their complaint as Im not persuaded that the car was unsatisfactory when 
they got it or that MBFS has treated them unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint by Mr K and Mrs K against 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-ThomasOmbudsman