DRN-2183412
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund transactions he says he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
On 1 January 2020, Mr E used his card for three cash machine withdrawals, the last being at 
19:09. From 20:13 that evening until 09:44 the next day, his card was used for further cash 
withdrawals at ATMs and one in a branch, totalling £1,800. This used up the rest of his 
balance. Mr E says he didnt make those payments.
At 20:39 on 1 January 2020, Mr E rang the bank. He only gave the staff member his 
surname and date of birth, and the call was terminated at his end before he went through 
security and before the staff member could identify him.
The next day, after his account was drained, Mr E called again, blocked his card, and 
reported the transactions. He went through his ATM receipts and confirmed that only the 
payments up until 19:09 were him, which he reiterated a number of times later. He said hed 
cancelled his card the previous night and said that the staff member had told him it was 
cancelled. He said people had looked over his shoulder at his 19:09 withdrawal and that he 
lost his card at some point after that. He said he wasnt robbed, and he hadnt noticed his 
card was missing until hed walked away from the cash machine.
When it emerged that Mr E had not cancelled his card, he then said he tried to call 
Santander again several times, but couldnt get through. Santanders records show no such 
attempts, and they explained he wouldve been placed in a queue if there were no staff 
immediately available, rather than cut off. Santander also texted the mobile phone number 
Mr E had given them, asking him to call them back, but they got no response.
In a subsequent call, Mr E said that he couldnt call back at all, as he was using his 
neighbours phone and it had run out of credit. Though he also said he had access to a 
landline.
Mr E also later said that the fraudsters did rob him. He said they saw his PIN, then snatched 
the card from right in front of him as it came out of the machine at the 19:09 withdrawal, and 
then they ran away. Though he then couldnt explain why he waited over an hour to call the 
bank, and why he then didnt call again until the next day. 
Santander held Mr E liable for the payments in dispute. They couldnt see why a fraudster 
would wait to use his card, nor why Mr E waited to report it. They were concerned about the 
contradictions in his testimony. And they pointed out that Mr E had used his other card at the 
same ATM as the alleged fraudster, within seconds of a disputed payment, at 20:13.
Mr E then said that the 20:13 payment that hed previously disputed must have been him.
I sent Mr E and Santander a provisional decision on 31 July 2020, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Broadly, Santander can hold Mr E liable for the payments in dispute if he authorised them.
Im satisfied from Santanders technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Mr Es 
genuine card, and the correct PIN. This is not enough, on its own, for Santander to hold Mr E 
liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its most likely Mr E 
consented to the transactions, or not.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think its unreasonable for Santander to hold Mr E 
liable for the transactions in dispute, as it seems most likely that he consented to them. Ill 
explain my reasoning.
Ive listened to Mr Es phone calls with Santander. Across multiple calls, he confirmed that 
he still had his other accounts debit card with him. He even used it to complete security.
Mr E used that other debit card on 1 January 2020, within seconds of one of the disputed 
transactions, and at the same ATM. And it seems very unlikely that he happened to be at the 
same place as the fraudsters, at the same time, using his other card alongside them, without 
noticing anything wrong.
Mr E now says that the disputed transactions must not have started until after that point. But 
he had his ATM receipts with him when he reported the fraud and on later calls, and was 
very specific about which transactions were and were not him, and how much he withdrew in 
total that day. He said repeatedly that the 19:09 withdrawal was his last one. So its difficult 
for me to find his new testimony credible when its so contradictory to his own evidence and 
to what he consistently said before.
Indeed, Mr E has given contradictory testimony in several areas, which makes it hard for me 
to take any one of his versions of events to be correct. For example, he originally said he 
cancelled his card and that the staff member confirmed it was cancelled, but the call 
recording shows thats not the case. He then said he tried to call Santander back several 
times, but the evidence does not support that either. He then said he was unable to call 
Santander back at all as he was using his neighbours mobile phone and it ran out of credit. 
But he has access to a landline, which he gave to us and Santander and frequently used to 
call both parties. And he also previously gave Santander a mobile phone number of his own 
 though hes now told our investigator that hes never had a mobile at all.
Mr E has said that he was aware of people looking at his PIN at the 19:09 withdrawal, and 
has alternately said that he either noticed his card was missing after he walked away, or that 
the thieves stole it from right in front of him and ran off. Either way, he was aware that 
someone had his PIN and that his card was missing after his last withdrawal. If thats the 
case, its very difficult to see why Mr E would initially wait an hour and a half to call 
Santander. And its similarly difficult to see why, after that call failed, hed wait until the next 
day  and until just after his account was drained  to try again.Its also difficult to see why a fraudster would wait over an hour to use Mr Es card after 
stealing it, especially if  as he now says  they stole it from right in front of him, and knew 
hed seen them do it. By waiting to use the card, they only risked Mr E cancelling it. And they 
used it at the same cash machine as his last genuine transaction, so they hadnt travelled 
anywhere.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence which makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr E 
couldve authorised these payments or given someone else permission to make them for 
him.
In summary, it does not seem likely that someone used Mr Es card and PIN without his 
permission. Given Mr Es contradictory testimony, his wait to cancel the card, the gap in 
payments, and that he made a genuine transaction at the same time and place as disputed 
ones, I think its most likely that the disputed transactions were made with his consent.
So based on everything Ive seen, I currently think its fair for Santander to refuse a refund in 
this case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
10 September 2020. But neither Mr E nor Santander sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that its fair for Santander to hold Mr E 
liable for the payments in dispute.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about Santander UK Plc, for the reasons set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman