DRN-3690792
The complaint
Mr E complains National Savings and Investments (NS&I) incorrectly allowed him to 
withdraw funds from his premium bonds account while he was unwell. The complainant here 
is Mr E, but Mr E is represented in this complaint by his sister Miss E, who has Lasting 
Power of Attorney (LPA) for him. 
What happened
Mr E had an NS&I premium bonds account. In 2012, Miss E was granted LPA for Mr E, as 
his health meant he sometimes lost the mental capacity to manage his finances. Miss E 
wrote to NS&I in 2016 asking it to register the LPA. NS&I did this and sent a letter of 
acknowledgement to Miss E. Miss E says she also spoke to NS&I around this time and told it 
she didnt want Mr E to be able to make withdrawals without her permission. 
Miss E says that in early November 2021 she thought Mr E had lost mental capacity, and 
arranged for him to be admitted to hospital, which took time. Miss E called NS&I on 
8 November 2021 about this and told it not to let Mr E make withdrawals. NS&I said it 
couldnt discuss things in detail with Miss E as she wasnt registered for its online and 
telephone services. But it noted what she said, and told her it seemed like there was nothing 
wrong with the account so it didnt look like Mr E had tried to withdraw funds. Miss E left this 
call reassured. But soon after, she found Mr E had in fact withdrawn £100 and £6,900 on 5 
November 2021 to his bank account. 
On 10 November 2021, Miss E called NS&I to complain about this. In its final response, 
NS&I said Mr E had made the withdrawals online, and its processing time was between 
three and five working days. NS&I said the LPA didnt restrict Mr E, and suggested it could 
only restrict Mr E with the involvement of the Court of Protection. However, NS&I apologised 
for not telling Miss E she could register for online and telephone services at the time she 
registered the LPA, and it offered Miss E £50 compensation for this.  
Miss E rejected this and came to our Service. She said NS&I could and should have stopped 
the withdrawals because shed called it in time, regardless of the LPA not restricting Mr E. 
That NS&I never told her Mr E could access his account online and if shed known this, she 
wouldnt have left money in it. That shed safeguarded £4,000 of the withdrawn funds, but Mr 
E had paid a large sum to someone who refused to refund it. Miss E wanted NS&I to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience it had caused her and reimburse Mr E 
for his financial loss.
Our Investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said the LPA didnt stop Mr E managing his 
finances. And Miss E had called NS&I three days after the withdrawals were made and 
hadnt asked about recent withdrawals. Our Investigator thought the £50 NS&I had offered 
Miss E was fair compensation for not telling her she could set up online access to Mr Es 
account. 
Miss E disagreed. She said shed called NS&I on 5 November 2021 - the same day Mr E 
made the withdrawals. And NS&I never told her she could manage the account online. But 
regardless, shed called NS&I with her concerns and asked it to stop withdrawals, but it 
didnt tell her about the recent withdrawals. Miss E said if NS&I had told her about these, its 
processing times meant either it could have stopped them, or Miss E could have arranged 
for Mr Es receiving bank account to be frozen. She said the LPA allowed her to act for Mr E 
when he didnt have capacity, so NS&I should have fully informed her when she called. And 
she planned to take action through the courts against the person Mr E had paid the funds to 
in order to recover them.
As Miss E disagreed, this complaint came to me for a decision. I asked Miss E for 
documentary evidence shed called NS&I on 5 November 2021, rather than 8 November 
2021. But Miss E said she wasnt able to provide this. 
I asked NS&I for some further information. NS&I said: 
Its records didnt show a call with Miss E in 2016. 
It couldnt discuss details with Miss E on 8 November 2021 because she wasnt 
registered for online and telephone services, but accepted it incorrectly implied 
everything was fine. 
At that point, it could have retrieved the £6,900 withdrawal, but Miss E had asked to stop 
future withdrawals, not ones that had already taken place. So, NS&I hadnt acted 
unfairly.
When Miss E called NS&I on 10 November 2021, she said shed safeguarded the funds 
in a holding account, which was at odds with what Miss E had told our Service.
I asked Miss E for more information about Mr Es financial loss, the court action she was 
taking regarding that, and about safeguarding Mr Es funds. Ive summarised Miss Es 
relevant comments and evidence as follows:
When Mr E becomes unwell, Miss E leaves about £1,000 in his bank account for him to 
use, as locking his accounts puts her in danger. So, she transferred most of what was in 
Mr Es current account out of his reach. 
On 10 November 2021, Miss E transferred the NS&I funds Mr E had withdrawn to a 
separate account, minus the funds Mr E had already paid to someone who now refused 
to refund it  Miss E provided a copy of Mr Es bank statement to show this financial loss 
was £2,990. Miss E said if NS&I had told her about the withdrawals, she could have 
asked 
Mr Es bank to transfer it out of Mr Es reach immediately.
NSIs error caused Miss E a lot of stress and inconvenience, particularly having to travel 
and take time off work to deal with this matter since she didnt have online or telephone 
access to Mr Es NS&I account. 
Miss E has notified the person Mr E had paid £2,990 to that Mr E intended to take them 
to court if they didnt refund it, and provided evidence of this. Miss E said this was still 
the intention but doubts their ability to pay even if ordered to do so by a court.
On 15 July 2022, I issued a provisional decision in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Id firstly like to say Im sorry to learn of Mr Es health difficulties, and the impact they have 
on both him and Miss E. I realise this must cause them both a great deal of difficulty and 
upset. 
Miss E says NS&I reassured her in 2016 that Mr E couldnt make any withdrawals. Neither of 
the letters Ive seen between Miss E and NS&I about registering the LPA make any mention 
of stopping withdrawals. And NS&I doesnt have a record of a call from Miss E in 2016. So as things stand, I dont have enough evidence to fairly say NS&I told Miss E that Mr E 
wouldnt be able to make withdrawals.
But NS&I accepts it didnt tell Miss E she could manage Mr Es account through online and 
telephone services. Its offered Miss E herself £50 compensation for this, though Miss E 
didnt accept this. But I should be clear that Mr E is the eligible complainant here since this is 
his NS&I account - Miss E can represent Mr E, but she is not herself an eligible complainant. 
That means I cant award compensation to Miss E. That said, if Miss E would like to accept 
NS&Is offer of £50, then she can let our Service know and we will contact NS&I about this. 
I acknowledge Miss E thought she called NS&I on 5 November 2021. But Im satisfied she in 
fact called on 8 November 2021, as thats what NS&Is contact records show and Miss E 
isnt able to provide evidence otherwise. So Miss E called NS&I three days after Mr E made 
the withdrawals. 
NS&I maintains it couldnt talk to Miss E in detail during that call. Ive listened to the call and 
heard Miss E say she was concerned Mr E was mentally unwell and expected him to be 
hospitalised in the next few days, and she was concerned he was trying to access his NS&I 
funds. NS&I took Miss E through security and confirmed the LPA was registered, but 
explained it couldn't give her information about whether Mr E had withdrawn funds because 
Miss E wasnt registered for online or telephone services. But later in the call, NS&I said it 
seemed there was nothing wrong with the account so it didnt look like Mr E had tried to 
withdraw funds. NS&I agreed to stop Mr E making withdrawals from that point on. 
I can see that the LPA in this case doesn't restrict what Mr E can do. However, it doesnt 
restrict when Miss E can act on Mr Es behalf either. So its my understanding that Miss E 
could use this LPA as soon as it was registered. That means I think Miss E had the power to 
make decisions about Mr Es finances when she called NS&I on 8 November 2021. And it 
was clear from that call that she thought Mr E didnt at that time have the mental capacity to 
manage his finances, and that she was trying to protect him and stop him from withdrawing 
money.
Given the reason why Miss E was calling, and Mr Es extreme vulnerability, I think it would 
have been fair and reasonable for NS&I to look at Mr Es account properly in that call, to let 
Miss E know about the recent withdrawals, and to talk to her about them. Instead, it 
incorrectly reassured Miss E that Mr E hadnt tried to make any withdrawals. So I dont think 
NS&I acted as it reasonably should have in that call.
When a financial business like NS&I makes an error, our approach is to consider the impact 
of that error. In other words, the distress, inconvenience and financial loss that error caused.
As I say, Miss E isnt the eligible complainant here so I cant award her compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. Mr E is the eligible complainant, but I dont think he experienced 
any distress or inconvenience as a result of NS&Is error, since Miss E was acting on his 
behalf in this matter. So Im not intending to make any award for distress and inconvenience. 
However, I am intending to make an award for Mr Es financial loss. Ill explain why. As I say, 
I think that when Miss E called NS&I on 8 November 2021, NS&I should have looked at Mr 
Es account properly, let Miss E know about the recent withdrawals and talked to her about 
them. NS&I says it could have stopped the £6,900 withdrawal at that point. So had NS&I 
acted as I think it should have, these funds wouldnt have been available to Mr E. 
Miss E wants NS&I to reimburse the £2,990 financial loss she says it caused Mr E, as he 
was incorrectly able to access his NS&I funds and pay this amount of them to someone who 
now refuses to refund it. Miss E says that when Mr E is unwell, she leaves about £1,000 for him to access and spend 
as he wishes, and that she transferred most of what was in Mr Es current account out of his 
reach  in other words, she left an amount of money in Mr Es account for him to access. So 
this is separate to the NS&I funds Mr E withdrew and which Miss E says she was later able 
to mostly transfer out of Mr Es reach, except for the £2,990 of it that Mr E paid to someone 
who has so far not refunded it.
Miss E says she intends to pursue this £2,990 financial loss in court. I dont know what Miss 
Es prospects of success are and I cant advise her or Mr E about that. However, there will 
be costs involved in going to court. And if not for NS&Is error here, I dont think Miss E and 
Mr E would need to consider going to court. So in the particular circumstances of this 
complaint, I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for NS&I to reimburse Mr E £2,990 for his 
financial loss.
Miss E received my provisional decision, and suggested Mr E would be willing to repay NS&I 
if he was able to recover his financial loss through the courts. 
In its response to my provisional decision, NS&I raised further points, and Ive summarised 
its relevant comments:
What would happen if Mr E or Miss E also managed to recover all or part of the £2,990 
from the person Mr E paid it to?
Should the float of £1,000 that Miss E leaves in Mr Es account when he is unwell be 
deducted from the £2,990 Id provisionally said NS&I should pay Mr E?
In 2016, NS&I only offered limited services for attorneys who were registered for its 
telephone and online services. So NS&I was highly unlikely to have mentioned stopping 
withdrawals at that time.
If, in the future, Mr E held any more funds with NS&I, would Miss E want NS&I to 
prevent Mr E carrying out any transactions at all?
On 12 August 2022, I issued a second provisional decision in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
For the reasons I set out in my previous provisional decision dated 15 July 2015, I still think 
NS&I made an error here. When Miss E called on 8 November 2021, NS&I should have 
looked at Mr Es account properly, let Miss E know about the recent withdrawals and talked 
to her about them.
But in light of NS&Is response to my previous provisional decision, Im now intending to put 
things right in a different way. Ill explain why.
NS&I asked what would happen if Mr E or Miss E were able to recover all or part of the 
financial loss, which I intend to ask NS&I to compensate Mr E for, from the person Mr E paid 
it to. As I said in my previous provisional decision, I dont know what Miss E and Mr Es 
prospects of success at court are and I cant advise them about that. But there will be costs 
involved in going to court. And, if not for NS&Is error here, I dont think Miss E and Mr E 
would need to consider going to court.
However, I accept its possible Mr E might be able to recover part or all of this financial loss 
through litigation against the person he paid it to. And I dont think it would be fair for Mr E to 
be doubly compensated here  through our Service and also through litigation. So I think its 
fair and reasonable to say that before NS&I pays any compensation for financial loss to Mr E, NS&I can ask Mr E for an undertaking that in the event Mr E is able to recover part or all 
of this financial loss through litigation, he will repay the recovered amount to NS&I up to a 
maximum of what I award.
NS&I also suggested the float of £1,000 Miss E leaves in Mr Es account when hes unwell 
should be deducted from the amount I provisionally said NS&I should pay Mr E for his 
financial loss. Ive reconsidered the copies of Mr Es bank statements provided to me, and I 
note Mr E had already spent £1,000 on other things before his withdrawn funds from NS&I 
reached his account. So, I dont think the financial loss compensation should be reduced for 
this reason.
However, I also note that it was on 6 November 2021 that Mr E made the first of the two 
financial loss payments which Miss E says the payee wont give back and which NS&I 
should be responsible for  this first payment was in the amount of £990. It wasnt until a few 
days later that the withdrawn NS&I funds then reached Mr Es account - £100 on 9 
November 2021 followed by £6,900 on 10 November 2021. And it was later on 10 November 
2021 that Mr E then paid the second financial loss payment of £2,000 to the payee Miss E 
says wont give it back.
Given Mr E paid £990 to the payee days before the NS&I funds reached his account, it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable of me to say NS&I should compensate Mr E for this £990. 
However, I think its fair and reasonable to say NS&I should still compensate Mr E for his 
financial loss of £2,000, because this is the amount Mr E was able to pay to the payee after 
the withdrawn NS&I funds reached his account on 10 November 2021. As I explained in my 
previous provisional decision, if NS&I had acted as I think it should have, these funds 
wouldnt have been available to Mr E to spend. Therefore, I now intend to say that a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the particular circumstances of this complaint is for NS&I to 
compensate Mr E £2,000 for his financial loss.
In its response to my provisional decision, NS&I also said it was unlikely to have mentioned 
stopping withdrawals to Miss E in 2016. But I dont think this changes the outcome of this 
complaint, because my previous provisional decision had already explained why I dont have 
enough evidence to fairly say NS&I told Miss E in 2016 that Mr E wouldnt be able to make 
withdrawals. 
NS&I also asked whether Miss E would want NS&I to prevent Mr E carrying out any 
transactions at all, if he again held funds with NS&I in future. Ive seen nothing to make me 
think either Miss E or Mr E intend to hold funds with NS&I again. But if they did, it would be 
for Miss E and NS&I to discuss how those accounts would operate. And they will need to be 
aware of the limitations of the account which have come to light in the course of this incident. 
They should consider carefully whether this account is one that is right for Mr E.
Miss E accepted my second provisional decision. She reiterated that in 2016 NS&I said Mr E 
couldnt access his funds without her authority. She said she wouldnt want Mr E to have an 
NS&I account in future. And she accepted the £50 compensation NS&I had itself previously 
offered her.
In its response to my second provisional decision, NS&I raised the following points:
It didnt dispute Miss E could use the LPA once it was registered with NS&I. But she 
hadnt registered for its online and telephone banking, so she didnt have the 
necessary authority to receive account information when she called NS&I on 8 
November 2021. 
Did Miss E freeze Mr Es bank account before the withdrawn NS&I funds reached it? 
Because Miss E said shed alerted Mr Es mental health team in early November 2021 and received a message from Mr E on 8 November 2021 about accessing his NS&I 
funds. 
It didnt know the balance of Mr Es bank account before and after the withdrawn NS&I 
funds reached it, but the information it had seen didnt support Miss Es testimony that 
she left Mr E with a £1,000 float in these circumstances.
Im now in a position to make my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The points NS&I raised in response to my second provisional decision dont change the 
conclusions I reached in that provisional decision. Ill explain why by addressing each of 
those points.
NS&I says Miss E hadnt registered for its online and telephone banking so wasnt 
authorised to receive account information when she called on 8 November 2021. As I said in 
my provisional decisions, in that call NS&I took Miss E through security and confirmed the 
LPA was registered, but explained it couldn't give her information about whether Mr E had 
withdrawn funds because she wasnt registered for online or telephone services. But despite 
this, NS&I did give Miss E information about the account  later in the call it told her it 
seemed there was nothing wrong with the account so it didnt look like Mr E had tried to 
withdraw funds. And that wasnt correct.  
NS&I asks if Miss E froze Mr Es bank account before the withdrawn NS&I funds reached it, 
because by 8 November 2021 she knew Mr E was unwell and trying to access his NS&I 
funds. But Miss E called NS&I about exactly that on 8 November 2021, and NS&I told her it 
didnt look like Mr E had tried to withdraw funds. Miss E has explained that simply freezing 
Mr Es account leaves her in danger. And the bank statements Miss E has provided show 
that on both 6 and 10 November 2021, Miss E transferred out all, or very almost all, the 
remaining balance of Mr Es bank account, with the reference as safeguarding. So I dont 
agree Miss E didnt take reasonable steps to mitigate Mr Es financial loss here, as NS&I 
seems to suggest.
NS&I says it doesnt know the balance of Mr Es bank account before and after the 
withdrawn NS&I funds reached it, and perhaps has doubts that Miss E left Mr E with a 
£1,000 float. But the bank statements provided by Miss E show Mr Es bank account 
balance was almost nothing when the NS&I withdrawals reached it. And I dont think the 
account balance at that point changes the outcome here, because Mr E had by then already 
spent more than the £1,000 Miss E says she leaves him in these circumstances, though I 
acknowledge NS&I may doubt she does this. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded to change the conclusions I reached in my second provisional 
decision dated 12 August 2022.Putting things right
NS&I should pay Mr E £2,000 for his financial loss. However, before it pays this, it can ask 
Mr E for an undertaking that in the event Mr E is able to recover part or all of this financial 
loss through litigation, he will repay the recovered amount to NS&I, up to a maximum of what 
I award.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, National Savings and Investments should pay Mr E £2,000 
for his financial loss. However, before it pays this, National Savings and Investments can ask 
Mr E for an undertaking that in the event Mr E is able to recover part or all of this financial 
loss through litigation, he will repay the recovered amount to National Savings and 
Investments, up to a maximum of what I award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman