DRN-1118198
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled his travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr C had travel insurance through his credit card. The insurance policy was provided by 
AXA, but it was underwritten by IPA. So for the purposes of this decision Ill refer to IPA only, 
but that reference will include those acting on IPAs behalf.
In 2019 Mr C suffered a heart attack. He was in the US at the time, and contacted IPA for 
medical assistance when he was admitted into hospital and was required to undergo 
surgery. 
IPA began to assess Mr Cs claim, which included requesting information about his medical 
history from his GP and beginning to draft a repatriation plan. But once Mr Cs medical 
information was received, IPA said it revealed that Mr C had a pre-existing medical 
condition, and they declined cover. 
Mr C made his own way back to the UK. But once home he realised IPA had assessed his 
claim against different terms and conditions to those in his policy. So Mr C complained, and 
raised concerns about the way IPA had handled his claim.  
IPA agreed that they hadn't kept Mr C adequately informed during the claim and had 
assessed it against the wrong policy. So they apologised and confirmed theyd settle his 
medical costs. And they offered him £400 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset 
that had been caused. But Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator thought IPA had initially progressed Mr Cs claim well. But they thought 
Mr C could have been repatriated sooner had IPA used the correct policy terms. They also 
thought Mr C had unnecessarily endured the burden of arranging his own travel home, as 
well as the stress of believing he might be held accountable for his US medical costs. So our 
investigator recommended that IPA increase their compensation to £800. 
Both IPA and Mr C disagreed with the above amount, so the matter was passed to me to 
decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware that Mr C feels that any award we make should, in some way, be punitive to IPA. 
He's explained that accepting £800 means it would have cost IPA significantly less than it 
would have done had they assessed his claim correctly. And he has explained that hes 
seeking compensation equivalent to the costs IPA would have paid had they repatriated him. But awards of compensation aren't designed to be punitive. And even if IPA had repatriated 
Mr C to the UK, the money spent on doing so would not have gone to Mr C. Instead, the 
money would have likely gone to the providers enlisted to facilitate his return. For example, 
to the suppliers of the nurse that was planned to accompany him. Or to the suppliers of the 
vehicles that were planned to help transport him to and from the relevant airports. 
Compensation is designed to be a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact a 
business mistake has had on someone. So any award would need to reflect that. And as 
Mr C was not entitled to the money IPA would have needed to spend in order to repatriate 
him, it'd be unfair of me to award compensation equivalent to that.
IPA have apologised for not keeping Mr C as updated as they could have done, and for 
assessing his claim against the wrong policy. And they have, as I understand it, paid his 
medical bill too. Which I think was fair of IPA in the circumstances. 
But Mr C has set out the impact that IPAs actions had on him. And, like our investigator, I 
too accept that IPAs mistake caused Mr C to suffer unnecessarily. I say this because Mr C 
suffered; an unnecessary loss of expectation when he learned IPA would not be covering his 
claim; an unnecessary inconvenience when he had to arrange his own travel back to the UK, 
and; unnecessary worry in thinking he would be held liable for a large medical bill.
IPAs actions impacted Mr C both practically and emotionally because of the above. And at a 
time when he was suffering from a period of severe ill-heath. I have already explained why 
any compensation I award in this complaint won't be punitive to IPA, but I don't think the 
amount of compensation IPA have offered sufficiently reflects the impact their mistake had 
on Mr C, and I'm persuaded it needs to be increased to a figure of £800 in total. 
Putting things right
I instruct IPA to :
pay Mr C £800 in total compensation for the impact their actions had on him. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Inter Partner Assistance SA should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman