DRN-4261927
The complaint
Mr Z complains Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited (AND) avoided his motor insurance 
policy (treated it like it never existed) and reported him to CIFAS.
AND, as the underwriter of the insurance contract, is responsible for this complaint. Another 
company administers the contract. For ease Ill refer to both their actions as Advantages 
actions.
What happened
Mr Z took out a motor insurance policy with AND online through a price comparison website 
to start in May 2022. He declared five years no claims discount (NCD) and no motor claims, 
accidents or losses in the 5 years before. 
In July 2022, AND told Mr Z he needed to send it proof of his NCD and confirm it wasnt 
being used on another policy. It warned, if he didnt respond with the evidence within 7 days, 
his policy would be cancelled. Mr Z replied and mentioned another vehicle. As this didnt 
answer the question, AND wrote to Mr Z again on 9 August asking for the same information.
On 12 August, Mr Z asked AND if itd agree to merge two insurance policies together, but it 
said it didnt offer policies which insure more than one car. The call handler reiterated the 
information which had been requested and Mr Z confirmed hed respond.
On 13 August, Mr Z emailed AND attaching a handwritten signed letter to confirm the NCD 
wasnt being used on any other policy. An undated document was also provided from a 
different insurer, who Ill call D, which stated Mr Z had 5 years NCD from 20 March 2015 - 20 
March 2022 and a non-fault claim from 2019. D was contacted by AND but had no record of 
Mr Z ever having had a policy with it. 
On 26 August, AND wrote to Mr Z asking him to explain this with a deadline of 6 September 
to prevent the policy being cancelled on 7 September. On 3 September, Mr Z emailed to ask 
AND to cancel his policy.  
In late September, AND wrote to Mr Z to say hed deliberately or recklessly misrepresented 
his NCD and failed to explain why D couldnt validate this. AND considered this a deliberate 
or reckless qualifying misrepresentation which entitled it to avoid his policy and keep his 
premium. It also made an entry to CIFAS.
Mr Z said the call handler gave him the wrong information and he didnt know he couldnt 
use his NCD on two cars. He was unable to access his home due to family issues and was 
suffering from depression. As a result, he asked his son to locate the proof of NCD. As hed 
son had either misplaced his paperwork, or his wife had thrown it away, Mr Z suspected his 
young son must have created the NCD evidence as he was concerned about Mr Zs mental 
health and what wouldve happened if he didnt find it. Mr Z said he didnt notice it was a 
falsified document due to an eye condition and wearing old glasses. He asked AND to 
remove the CIFAS warning as he was finding it difficult to obtain a credit card and keep a 
job. Also, as hed sold the car, AND shouldve cancelled his policy when he asked it to.
AND didnt change its view, so, Mr Z brought his complaint to this service. He doesnt think 
the way AND has acted is fair. To put things right, he says the insurer should put this down 
to miscommunication and human error and clear the note on his financial record. 
The Investigator looked into matters and agreed there had been a deliberate qualifying 
misrepresentation, so, AND was entitled to take the steps it had. Mr Z doesnt agree with this 
and made a number of points including the following.
- He was clear he wanted to use the existing NCD he had on this car, rather than the one 
it was already being used on. But he also says it was always the intention to sell the car 
so why would he need to use two NCDs.
- Due to his eyesight, he wont be able to drive soon so his NCD wont be needed. 
- His email account was hacked. 
- In a phone call to AND, he was told he could cancel the policy at any time. 
- Hes reported his son to the police and says should be treated as the victim.
The matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I must tell Mr Z I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So, 
I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If the consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AND says Mr Z failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered questions about his NCD and said he had five years NCD which he wanted to use 
on this policy. Mr Z has made a number of points about why his choice was reasonable and 
this was a miscommunication. However, during the online sales process, Mr Z was asked 
how many years of NCD he had, and he input five years NCD. But his NCD was being used 
on a different policy. It was made clear through explanatory information when this question 
was asked a customer can only use their NCD on one car or insurance policy at a time. Im 
therefore satisfied ANDs position here is both fair and reasonable. 
Even so, if there had been a misunderstanding about this, Id have expected Mr Z to explain 
this to AND at any of the points he was asked about his NCD. Instead, it was only once his 
policy had been avoided that Mr Z said there was a miscommunication and, as a result, his 
young son forged evidence of a NCD and sent this to AND on his behalf. It was made clear in the online comparison journey how important it is to answer the 
question correctly. Ive also seen this was repeated on the Important Information Document. 
And I havent seen any evidence to suggest the insurance policy offered by AND wouldve 
been on the same terms if itd been given accurate information - that Mr Z didnt have any 
NCD to use on this policy. So, Im satisfied Mr Zs representation was a qualifying one.
AND considers Mr Zs representation was deliberate or reckless. In light of the information 
set out above, I see no reason to interfere with this. 
As Im satisfied Mr Zs representation should be treated as a deliberate or reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation, Ive looked at the actions AND can take in accordance with CIDRA. I 
agree AND was entitled to avoid Mr Zs policy in accordance with CIDRA from the inception 
of the policy. This means - in effect - his policy never existed. Also it can keep the premium 
paid. Again, considering everything, I see no reason to interfere with ANDs decision here. 
I note Mr Z says he tried to cancel the policy on 3 September and AND shouldve followed 
this request. However, the ability of AND to avoid the policy under CIDRA takes away any 
risk it had while the policy was in place. Given Mr Z accepts a falsified document was 
submitted to AND (irrespective of who falsified it), I dont consider its for me to interfere with 
its decision to avoid Mr Zs policy notwithstanding that hed asked to cancel it. I also consider 
its action in making an entry to CIFAS to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Having considered all the circumstances in this matter, Im satisfied the above is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this complaint. 
I note Mr Z says AND is to blame as this was clearly a mistake which AND knew and is 
trying to take advantage of. I also note he says AND misled him on using his NCD. I dont 
see things the same way. Mr Z was obliged to provide accurate information in his answers, 
taking care not to make a misrepresentation. Ive already found Mr Z failed to do this and so, 
whilst I acknowledge this will undoubtedly be having a significant impact on his wellbeing 
and financial situation, AND isnt responsible for the position Mr Z now finds himself.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman