DRN-3221881
The complaint
Ms F and Mr M are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined their travel 
insurance claim. 
The claim was made by Ms F as she was travelling with friends and therefore throughout this 
decision, Ill refer to Ms F only. 
Any reference to UKI includes all its agents.
What happened
Ms F and Mr M have a worldwide travel insurance policy alongside their current account. 
The policy is underwritten by UKI. Ms F booked her trip on 10 August 2019 and her intended 
travel dates were from 24 July 2020 to 28 July 2020. 
Ms F says she called UKI on 25 June 2020 for advice as the Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Office (FCDO)  formerly known as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
(FCO)  was advising against all but essential travel. On 3 July 2020, Ms F says she called 
UKI again and it advised her to cancel the hotel booking. So she cancelled this on 5 July 
2020 and received a full refund. Ms F also says UKI advised her to see if the flight provider 
cancelled her flight and if it didnt, she should be a no-show for the flight and her claim 
would be covered. 
Ms F didnt go on the trip on 24 July 2020 and submitted a claim with UKI for the cost of the 
flight. UKI declined the claim because it says there was no FCDO advice in place not to 
travel to the destination on the intended date. UKI also offered £100 compensation for the 
way her claim was handled. It couldnt locate the telephone call Ms F made to UKI and it 
therefore couldnt confirm whether Ms F was mis-advised. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Ms F brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said the flights werent cancelled by the 
flight provider which means under the terms and conditions of Ms Fs policy, there is no 
insured event and therefore she didnt think UKI had declined the claim unfairly. Our 
investigator also said the £100 compensation offered by UKI was fair and reasonable.
Ms F wasnt happy with the investigators findings. Shes asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me.
Shes referred to the cancellation section of the terms and conditions of the policy and said 
there are 21 days between the 3 July 2020 (when the travel advice was in place) and the 24 
July 2020 (when Ms F was due to travel). This is less than 28 days, which is the duration of 
the policy being applicable, as set out in the policy document. The policy does not require 
Ms F to cancel her flight in this time. She said there was no point cancelling her flight as the 
provider does not offer any refunds for cancelled flights.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Fs complaint.
In the terms and conditions of Ms Fs policy, under the cancellation section, on page 19, it 
says:
You are covered for
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if
you have to cancel your trip,

9. FCO travel advice All but essential travel: in the 28 days before your trip start 
date the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All but essential travel to 
your destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened your  
current account or booked your trip whichever is later.
Looking the above, its clear that cover would be provided if the trip had to be cancelled in 
the event of the FCDO advising against all but essential travel. 
Ms F booked her trip on 10 August 2019. The advice from the FCDO was changing during 
2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic but was also kept under review. Ms F cancelled her 
hotel booking on 5 July 2020, but the flight still went ahead. It wasnt cancelled by the flight 
provider on 24 July 2020 when she was due to travel. Ms F decided not to show up for the 
flight.
On 3 July 2020, the FCDO was advising British Nationals against all but essential 
international travel for the country Ms F was travelling to. It also said that this advice was 
being kept under constant review.
On 4 July 2020, this FCDO advice was updated for the same country. This said:
From 4 July, XXX is exempt from the FCO advice against all non-essential
international travel. This is based on the current assessment of COVID-19 risks.
This advice remained in place on Ms Fs intended travel date of 24 July 2020. So while Ms F 
decided to cancel her hotel booking on 5 July 2020 and not show up for the scheduled flight, 
by 24 July 2020, there was no restriction for international travellers not to travel to Ms Fs 
intended destination.
While Ms F cancelled her hotel booking, I can see she didnt cancel her flight booking. As 
she rightly points out, even if she had cancelled her flight booking, she would not have been 
entitled to a refund based on the flight booking shed made.  As it happens, the flight went 
ahead to the intended destination on 24 July 2020. While Ms F has confirmation that she 
didnt show up for the flight, looking at what the terms and conditions of the cancellation 
section of her travel policy say, this isnt an event thats covered. The flight wasnt cancelled 
therefore there is no cover under her travel policy. The provider didnt cancel the flight and 
there was no advice in place from the FCDO not to travel to the intended destination on 24 
July 2020. While I can understand Ms F might not have wanted to travel, this doesnt mean that for this 
set of circumstances, UKI would be responsible for paying for the cost of the flight. The 
situation that Ms F found herself in doesnt satisfy the terms of her policy. Im therefore not 
persuaded that UKI has declined the claim unfairly. 
With regard to the way the claim was handled, I appreciate Ms Fs frustration regarding the 
advice she says she received during the telephone calls. UKI has acknowledged it could 
have done better and in recognition of this has offered Ms F £100. I think this is fair and 
reasonable. I understand she thinks she was mis-advised and this led her to not showing up 
for her flight on 24 July 2020. However, recordings or notes of the calls cant be located by 
UKI. I havent seen any other evidence which confirms the calls were made from Ms F 
either. I appreciate Ms F has hand written notes of the calls but in the absence of any other 
information, Im satisfied UKI has acted fairly by offering £100 compensation for its handling 
of the claim. And while its accepted the claim could have been better, this doesnt mean that 
it should now be paid as this falls within the basis of the travel insurance contract Ms F has 
with UKI and within the terms and conditions of that policy. 
Overall, in the circumstances of the complaint, Im not persuaded that UKI has acted unfairly 
in declining Ms Fs claim. I also think £100 is fair compensation for the service provided to 
Ms F. It follows that I dont think UKI needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Ms F and Mr Ms complaint against U K 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman