DRN-3400128
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) irresponsibly provided him with 
a credit card.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known so Ive summarised events.
Mr M took out a Tesco credit card in January 2018 with a credit limit of £1,300.
Mr M complained about irresponsible lending, saying he had a low income at the time 
of application, and had multiple debts elsewhere, including multiple credit cards 
reaching their credit limit. He asked for the debt to be written off, and to be refunded 
all interest and charges, and remove any adverse information on his credit file.
Tesco disagreed. It said Mr Ms circumstances met its criteria for the credit card and 
limit. And that had taken into account information he had provided, information from 
credit reference agencies (CRA), and carried out affordability and sustainability 
checks when considering the application.
Tesco wrote off the remaining debt in June 2021 on a goodwill basis, it said this was 
unconnected to this complaint. Mr M told us his concerns remained around credit file 
information, interest and charges, and he highlighted a conversation with Tesco in 
which he said the agent hadnt objected when he proposed taking out a car on 
finance and selling it to pay his balance. 
Mr M brought the complaint to this Service and one of our Investigators looked into 
what happened. He reviewed the credit file information provided by Mr M and said 
these didnt show recent defaults or bankruptcy around the time of the application. 
And based on its checks it had acted reasonably. He also said it wasnt for Tesco to 
provide financial advice in regard to the vehicle comments. So, he didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr M disagreed. He said credit report data from two CRAs did show he had missed 
eight payments with one company (Company R) around the time of application. He 
also highlighted the extent of his credit around that time, and quoted an upheld 
complaint brought to his Service about a different credit card. 
The Investigator looked again, saying the data provided from the CRA Tesco used 
didnt reflect the missed payments with Company R. And so, from the data it had, he 
felt it acted proportionately. 
Mr M acknowledged his Company R data wasnt reported to one of the CRAs. And 
said Tescos searches should account for that.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Lenders dont have set checks that they have to undertake when considering an 
application for credit. But they do have a responsibility to carry out appropriate and 
proportionate checks to ensure that the consumer can afford the lending.
For this credit application with a £1,300 limit, Tesco took into account Mr Ms overall 
external lending and available credit report data. It also considered the information 
hed given at the time of application, and carried out searches for CCJs, and recent 
defaults. These searches didnt show anything concerning. 
In light of the sums involved, Tesco said it didnt request any further evidence for 
income or outgoings. Im in agreement this was proportionate in the circumstances. 
Mr M has highlighted missed payments with Company R that he says Tesco 
shouldve seen. But for reasons unknown to me, these were not reported to the CRA 
Tesco used. Mr M has said Tesco should be responsible for this, and suggested it 
shouldve used multiple CRAs to be considered as carrying out proportionate checks. 
Mr M has also said he cannot be personally responsible for what information shows 
against each of the CRAs as he doesnt control their business operations.
I take on board Mr Ms points, but I disagree with him. If he feels Company R has 
failed in reporting data to the CRA in question, or alternatively feels the CRA has not 
provided accurate data these may be concerns he takes up with whichever 
respective firm. But I do not think it would be fair nor reasonable to hold Tesco 
responsible in this instance for the data provided and reported by other companies, 
as like him, it simply doesnt control their operations. And, Im satisfied Tescos 
checks, including using data from only one of the three main CRAs in this instance 
was proportionate and fair in the circumstances.
Ive thought about Mr Ms concerns about Tescos agent. Mr M has acknowledged it 
was him who proposed to take a car on finance and sell it for funds. And it seems his 
concern is the agent didnt object or tell him not to do this. I dont think it would be fair 
to hold Tesco responsible for this, nor would I expect its agent to provide legal or 
financial advice in the circumstances presented  particularly given it seems the 
agent made it clear any decision regarding this would sit with Mr M.
So overall, Ive seen nothing to persuade me Tescos actions were irresponsible in 
providing this credit card.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman