DRN-1685859
The complaint
Mr O complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has unfairly declined his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
What happened
In June 2018 Mr O decided to purchase a premium performance car from a dealership. He 
arranged for the car to be subject to a pre-sale inspection by a third-party company 
(Company A). Mr O says he was directed to use this company by the dealership as it had 
an account with them for MOT and repair work.
Mr O paid for the inspection via his credit card with RBS. No contract was signed between 
Mr O and Company A, but the report prepared stated that the inspection was carried out by 
visible external examination only. We have not stripped, removed or inspected internal 
workings of any component and cannot be held responsible for any failure.
The pre-sales report set out its findings, including that the car was currently an MOT fail due 
to the engine cradle being corroded. This was repaired and the Mr O agreed to purchase the 
car.
In June 2019 Mr O decided to sell the car and took it to a different dealership who advised 
that, in the past, the car had been involved in accident which had resulted in damage to its 
front. Mr O was told that this would have a negative impact on the value of the car of 
between £15,000 to £10,000.
Mr O arranged for the car to be inspected by another company, (Company B), who 
provided a detailed report of its findings. Company B said that there was damage to the car, 
which would have been clear to the naked eye, that it had been involved in an accident in 
the past. In particular that the bumper had originally been a different colour to that of the car, 
(chips from the paint showed the colour underneath), and that the front bonnet landing panel 
was buckled and distorted.
Mr O complained to RBS and said that Company A had breached its contract with him by not 
performing, with reasonable care and skill, the pre-sale inspection. He said Company A 
should have detected the earlier accident damage and, had it done so, he would not have 
bought the car. Mr O said it would be fair for RBS to pay the difference in the value of the car 
as it would be if it were undamaged, and its current market value, together with refunding the 
cost of the report.
RBS didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It said that for a claim to be successful under S75 CCA 
a breach of contract or a misrepresentation had to be proved. Having investigated Mr Os 
claim it had not found there was enough evidence to satisfy a breach of contract claim. RBS 
said there was no evidence that the assessment by Company A had been designed to 
assess the value of the car, or if the purchase price paid by Mr O was fair. It had been clear 
that this was an external examination only and it did not agree the supplier had failed to 
deliver the service it had been engaged to do.
Mr O disagreed with the view of RBS and complained to this service. Our investigator did not 
recommend that Mr Os complaint should be upheld. She said that RBS had followed the 
correct process and had investigated Mr Os complaint. Its decision had been fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Our investigator said that you could not compare the reports prepared by Company A and 
Company B as they werent like for like. Company Bs report had been prepared after parts 
were removed and was far more in depth. She said that the pre-sales inspection had cost Mr 
O £220 and was not designed to be a detailed survey.
Our investigator said that Company A had not purported to be experts in relation to accident 
damage and, although it had pointed out the corrosion to the engine mount, this did not 
mean that it could be inferred that it was. In relation to the bumpers original colour our 
investigator said that, as Mr O had owned the car for a year by the time this was noted, it 
was more likely than not that abrasions to that paintwork had occurred overtime exposing 
the colour underneath.
Mr O disagreed with our investigators view. He said that Company A had looked at the cars 
chassis, as evidenced by its report, and that it should have also spotted the accident 
damage which was obvious. He also says Company A should have spotted that the bumper 
and headlight had been replaced as their original colour was different to that of the cars.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances section 75 of the CCA gives a consumer an equal right to claim 
against the supplier of goods or services and the provider of credit if there has been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. However, my role isnt to decide 
RBSs liability under section 75, its to consider whether RBS has handled Mr Os claim fairly 
and reasonably.
Here, Mr O paid Company A to provide a pre-sale inspection on a car he intended to 
purchase. He says this report wasnt carried out with reasonable care and skill, as it missed 
that the car had previously sustained damage to its front. This has resulted in him buying a 
car he would not otherwise have bought and facing an unexpected loss in its resale value.
Ive seen that RBS looked at both the report prepared by Company A and the subsequent 
one by Company B, as well as contacting the supplying dealership before making its 
decision. So, I dont think I can reasonably say that RBS didnt investigate Mr Os complaint 
properly.
Mr O was buying an expensive performance car and so I think a pre-sales inspection was a 
sensible precaution. However, I have noted the cost of the pre-sale inspection was £220, 
which is significantly less than the cost of the report prepared by Company B. I agree with 
our investigator that the two reports arent like for like, and so cant be compared to each 
other. The report by Company A wasnt intended to be a detailed survey unlike that done by 
Company B. I think that Company As report was clear it was based on visible external 
examination only and so would be limited in its scope.Ive seen that there was no written contract between Company A and Mr O prior to the 
inspection. This means there arent any terms and conditions that can be referred to, other 
than the explanatory note on the report that had it been based on a visual inspection of the 
car. Company A didnt purport to be an expert in accident damage, but said it concentrated 
on the mechanical aspects of the car.
Ive seen that Company A did point out various issues with the car, such as a crack to the 
front lens of a side light, scuffs and marks to the seats and the carpet, the drivers door 
rubber being split and a dent to the centre front of the bumper. It also stated that the car 
would fail an MOT due to the corrosion of an engine cradle. I think the contents of the report 
show that the car was subject to an inspection, however, Mr O says the report has missed 
obvious signs that should have been picked up that the car had been in an accident.
Im aware that an HPI check doesnt show the car was involved in any accidents, and that 
Company A says there were no signs that the paintwork on the bumper had been changed. 
As Company Bs report was undertaken some months after the car had been acquired, I 
think its reasonable to take into account that scratches and stone chipping over time would 
have been likely to reveal the bumpers original colour, and that this evidence was unlikely to 
have been noticeable in the visual inspection that took place in July 2018. As Company A 
did note some damage to the bumper, I think it more likely than not that if a different colour 
had come through this would have been noted. I also think it was unlikely that the change in 
paint to the headlight was obvious at the time of the visual inspection.
Mr O says that Company A looked at the chassis as it spotted the corrosion and it should 
have spotted the accident damage, as that would have been obvious. He says Company A 
was a specialist in this make of car and so it should have known what it was looking at. 
However, I think its fair to take into account that this was not intended to be a detailed 
inspection, and Company A wasnt a specialist in accident damage. It says its experienced in 
the mechanical aspects of the car, not accident repairs, and that it was aware that mounting 
points are susceptible to corrosion. I think, in light of the evidence, that it would be difficult to 
establish that Company A didnt perform the inspection to the required standard.
Mr O agrees that it wasnt the purpose of the pre-sale inspection report to provide an opinion 
as to the value of the car, or whether its sales price was fair. 
So, for the reasons given above, I dont think I can reasonably say that RBS has acted 
unfairly in concluding that there was not enough to satisfy the claim that there had been a 
breach of contract and Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Jocelyn GriffithOmbudsman