DRN-3290349
The complaint
Mr P complains about the poor level of service and misleading information provided by 
Parmenion Capital Partners LLP (Parmenion) in connection with his self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). Specifically, Mr P is unhappy that Parmenion told him money held in his 
SIPP was safe but when it was switched to cash he suffered a financial loss of £4,352.
Mr P has referred two separate complaints to this service. The first complaint, which Ive 
considered under this final decision, is about Mr Ps SIPP provider, Parmenion. The second 
complaint, which Ive considered under a separate final decision, is about Mr Ps former 
financial adviser, Lemonade LLP trading as Informed Pensions (Informed Pensions).
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in her 
assessment which she provided to both Mr P and Parmenion. I dont intend to repeat here 
what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary of the key events and dates. 
Mr P had built up safeguarded benefits in his former employers defined benefits 
pension scheme. The cash equivalent transfer value of those benefits was £163,983. 
He was interested in transferring the value of his safeguarded benefits to his existing 
SIPP with a different provider. In October 2019, he contacted Informed Pensions to 
obtain advice;
In December 2019, Informed Pensions recommended that Mr P transfer the value of 
his safeguarded benefits valued at £163,983 to a new SIPP provided by Parmenion. 
Informed Pensions recommended that the Parmenion SIPP be invested in a medium-
risk investment portfolio managed on a discretionary basis to align with Mr Ps 
recorded risk profile;
On 14 February 2020, Parmenion received the transfer value of £163,983 from the 
defined benefits pension scheme;
On 19 February 2020, Parmenion received the transfer confirmation documentation it 
required to invest the transfer value in the agreed medium-risk investment portfolio. 
Upon receipt of those documents, it automatically started the investment process. In 
the evening, outside office hours, Mr P emailed Informed Pensions and instructed it 
to arrange for the transfer value received by the Parmenion SIPP to be held in cash. 
He stated, the investment profile looks wrong and I would like to have a review of 
it!. He didnt specify in that email why it looked wrong;
On 20 February 2020, there were several calls between Mr P, his adviser at Informed 
Pensions and Parmenion. Essentially, Mr P wanted to re-confirm his instruction for 
the transfer value to be held in cash. In his call with Parmenion, Mr P explained that 
he was concerned with the spread of funds and associated charges in the agreed 
investment strategy. In response, Parmenion stated on the call, amongst other 
things, Whatever happens you will not be disadvantagedthe bottom line is there 
will be no financial disadvantage to youwe would not leave you short there will 
be no financial detriment to you. The outcome of the calls was that Parmenion said 
the investment process which had started on 19 February 2020 was still in motion 
and that nothing could be done until the following day, at which point Informed 
Pensions would need to provide a switch instruction using Parmenions online 
system;
On 21 February 2020, Informed Pensions instructed Parmenion to switch the value of 
Mr Ps SIPP to cash using Parmenions online system;
On 24 February 2020, which was the next working day after Informed Pensions 
instruction on 21 February 2020, Parmenion completed the fund switch to cash; and
Mr P instructed Parmenion to transfer the value of his SIPP to his existing SIPP with 
a different provider. That switch was completed on 2 March 2020 based on a transfer 
value of £159,631. This was £4,352 less than the transfer value of £163,983 received 
from the defined benefits pension scheme. The reduction in fund value upset Mr P, 
particularly since Parmenion had told him during their call on 20 February 2020 that 
he wouldnt be financially disadvantaged.
This complaint
Mr P complained to Parmenion about the poor level of service and misleading information it 
had provided. He said, in summary, the following:
He didnt feel like he had any form of control of his SIPP because Parmenion refused 
to deal with him directly and take his instruction to switch to cash. Rather, it told him 
that any fund switch instruction would need to be made by his financial adviser, 
Informed Pensions;
Parmenion told him that he wouldnt be financially disadvantaged as a result of the 
fund switch to cash but this was proved to be incorrect because he had suffered a 
financial loss of £4,352; and
Informed Pensions and Parmenion colluded to cover up its errors that led to him 
suffering the financial loss.
Parmenion didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said, in summary, the following:
Mr Ps concern about the suitability of the advice to start the Parmenion SIPP as a 
destination to receive the transfer value of £163,983 should be directed to Informed 
Pensions. This was because Parmenion didnt advise Mr P to start the SIPP;
Parmenion doesnt advise or deal directly with end clients. Its role in the transaction 
was to act as the discretionary fund manager and invest Mr Ps SIPP in line with the 
instructions received from Informed Pensions. And on 19 February 2020 it did exactly 
that when it started to invest the value of Mr Ps SIPP in line with the agreed medium-
risk investment portfolio recommended by Informed Pensions;
On 21 February 2020, it received from Informed Pensions the formal instruction to 
switch the value of Mr Ps SIPP to cash. It sent a letter to Mr P on the same day to 
confirm that the switching process had started. It completed the switch on                            
24 February 2020 which was the next working day. It was satisfied that it had 
completed the fund switch swiftly and in line with its normal timeframes; andThe reduction in the SIPP fund value of £4,352 from £163,983 down to £159,631 was 
due to market movements before the fund switch to cash was carried out on            
24 February 2020. While it acknowledged that the reduction in value was frustrating 
for Mr P and wouldve caused him concern, it didnt think it was liable for this.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part and 
recommended that Parmenion pay £1,250 total compensation to Mr P. She said, in 
summary, the following:
The terms and conditions of the Parmenion SIPP, which Mr P had accepted, meant 
that it couldnt accept fund switch instructions directly from end clients. Rather, 
Parmenion required such instructions to come from Informed Pensions using its 
online portal. So, she couldnt reasonably say that Parmenion had made an error in 
not accepting Mr Ps fund switch instruction on 20 February 2020; 
Parmenion wasnt responsible for the financial loss of £4,352 claimed by Mr P. This 
was because she was satisfied it had carried out the fund switch to cash as quickly 
as it couldve done, and the reduction was due to market movements. However, she 
thought that Parmenion misled Mr P when it told him he wouldnt be financially 
disadvantaged. This led to Mr P suffering a loss of expectation when it turned out that 
SIPP fund value had reduced by £4,352 following the switch to cash. To put things 
right for the misinformation, she recommended that it pay £250 compensation to                   
Mr P; and
Parmenion had acted unprofessionally in phone calls with Informed Pensions when 
discussing Mr Ps case. She said that Parmenion had made unnecessary comments 
about Mr P which would likely anger and upset him. To put things right for the 
unprofessional behaviour, she recommended that it also pay £1,000 compensation to 
Mr P.
Parmenion accepted our investigators recommendation to pay £1,250 compensation to                 
Mr P. But he didnt accept this. In response, he asked our investigator to establish with 
Parmenion and Informed Pensions whether theyd be willing to settle for a total 
compensation figure of £6,000, split between both businesses. Parmenion didnt agree. Our 
investigator considered Mr Ps additional comments but wasnt persuaded to change the 
outcome of her assessment. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was 
referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Scope of this final decision 
Mr P has referred to this service two separate complaints about Parmenion and Informed 
Pensions. Under this final decision Ive only considered the acts or omissions of Parmenion 
in its dealings with Mr P. Ive considered Mr Ps complaint about Informed Pensions under a 
separate final decision.Subject Access Request and request for an oral hearing
Before this complaint was referred to me, Mr P submitted a Subject Access Request (SAR) 
to this service to provide information that we hold about him. Information was provided to 
him in line with Article 15 of the UK General Data Protection Regulation. Certain information 
was redacted from the SAR. We explained why to Mr P. Despite this, he wasnt satisfied with 
the response and alleged that this service was withholding information to prevent him from 
providing a full response to our investigators assessment. But he didnt provide details of the 
specific information he thought was missing, despite being asked multiple times.
In his most recent contact with this service, Mr P requested that I hold an oral hearing so that 
he can make a full personal representation because he continues to believe that this service 
has withheld information. I dont think an oral hearing is necessary. Oral hearings arent 
designed for the parties to plead their case or to cross-examine the other party  theyre only 
granted by an ombudsman if they think it will help them get to the bottom of what happened 
and to ultimately make a decision. In this case, I dont think a hearing is necessary because 
Im satisfied that theres sufficient documentary evidence already provided by the parties to 
enable me to reach a fair and reasonable decision.
My findings
The purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single point raised by 
Parmenion and Mr P. So if I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Having considered the evidence, I 
agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for the following reasons:
In his email of 24 February 2020 to Parmenion, Mr P stated that it if it had followed 
his instruction to switch to cash, he wouldnt have suffered the financial loss of 
£4,352. In my view, Parmenion didnt treat Mr P unfairly or make an error when it 
refused to accept his fund switch instruction of 20 February 2020. This is supported 
by the terms and conditions of the Parmenion SIPP which Mr P accepted. These 
confirmed that any sell or fund switch instructions need to be provided by the end 
clients FCA-regulated financial adviser attached to the SIPP, which in this case was 
Informed Pensions.
I dont think Parmenion intended to mislead Mr P when it told him on                                  
20 February 2020 that he wouldnt be financial disadvantaged. I think it made those 
comments to try and comfort him that his money was safe while held in its SIPP  
safe in the sense that it wouldnt be stolen by fraudsters or scammers. But I can see 
that Mr P may have misinterpreted Parmenions comments to believe that the value 
of his SIPP was frozen at £163,983 and wouldnt change before the fund switch to 
cash was completed.
I think Mr P suffered a loss of expectation here rather than an actual financial loss 
caused by an error. Parmenion invested Mr Ps SIPP in line with the agreed 
investment portfolio recommended by Informed Pensions. This meant it was subject 
to daily market movements. Regardless of what Parmenion told Mr P in trying to 
comfort him, the underlying value of his SIPP was invested and so would fluctuate 
daily until such time as the fund switch to cash was completed. Mr P wants 
Parmenion to pay him compensation to place him into the position hed be in had his 
SIPP not been invested following receipt of the transfer value of £163,983. But hes 
not entitled to be placed into that financial position. Parmenion did nothing wrong 
when it invested Mr Ps SIPP in line with the instructions received from Informed Pensions. Overall, I agree with our investigators view that £250 compensation for the 
misinformation and loss of expectation is appropriate.
On 21 February 2020, Informed Pensions submitted to Parmenion a formal 
instruction to switch the value of Mr Ps SIPP to cash. Parmenion couldnt switch the 
underlying investments of the SIPP until such time as it received that instruction. 
Once received, it completed the fund switch to cash on 24 February 2020, which was 
the next working day after 21 February 2020. Im satisfied that Parmenion carried out 
the fund switch as quickly as it couldve done, and that Mr P is therefore in the 
correct financial position.
Based on the above, I cannot agree with Mr Ps assertion that Parmenion and 
Informed Pensions colluded to cover up its errors that led to him suffering the 
financial loss of £4,352. This is because there were no errors to cover up. The 
financial loss claimed by Mr P was due to market movements following his decision 
to depart from the agreed investment strategy and instruct Informed Pensions to 
switch the value of the Parmenion SIPP to cash.
Ive listened to the recorded calls between Parmenion and Informed Pensions. I 
share our investigators view that Parmenion acted unprofessionally in one call when 
discussing Mr Ps case. It made unnecessary comments about Mr P in that call which 
would likely anger and upset him. I agree with our investigators recommendation that 
Parmenion pay £1,000 compensation to Mr P in respect of this.
Mr P said that his objective was always to have full control of his SIPP and self-select 
the underlying investment funds. If thats the case, it seems he achieved that 
objective following the subsequent transfer to his other SIPP with a different provider 
on 2 March 2020.
Putting things right
In line with our investigators recommendation, and if it hasnt already done so, Parmenion 
must pay £1,250 compensation to Mr P for providing misinformation and acting 
unprofessionally, as set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Parmenion Capital Partners LLP must redress Mr P as Ive 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman