DRN-3978371
The complaint
H complained that their claim for malicious damage under their landlord policy was unfairly 
declined by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva). H is a commercial business.
What happened
H said they had their property insured with a landlord policy from May 2020 to May 2022. 
They had tenants living in the property during this time. They said they completed a virtual 
inspection of the property in August 2020, and they said the condition of the property was 
reported as satisfactory.
H said the tenant failed to pay rent sometime in 2021, which led to eviction. A further 
inspection took place around this time. The tenant left the property in a poor condition, so H 
made a claim for malicious damage in September 2022.
Aviva considered the claim. It said it considered a report submitted by Hs managing agent 
and it appointed its building team to carry out a full inspection of the property. Aviva said 
there is no way to determine when the damage occurred and if this was while you were on 
cover with ourselves. However, if I were to give you the benefit of the doubt the claim would 
still be declined as the damage is not consistent with malicious damage. For damage to be 
considered as malicious, it would need to have been carried out with a degree of ill will or 
spite as opposed to being caused by a lack of care or neglect. 
H wants Aviva to settle the claim for malicious damage.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought the property had been left 
in a poor state  but she didnt think there was evidence that it had been caused maliciously. 
So, she thought Aviva had been fair to decline the claim. H disagreed, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the notes Aviva made when considering the claim. Aviva reviewed the 
managing agents inspection report from August 2021. Aviva said, this report shows the 
property to be generally in fair condition with some signs of general deterioration wear and 
tear during the period of the lease, but it does not show any damage that we would be able 
to consider as a claim under our policy. Aviva said, we cannot accept that there are any 
signs of one-off incidents of this damage at the property that would be considered as 
damage that would be caused by any of the insured events covered under your policy.
H provided photos and a video of the property in September 2022. Aviva also attended the 
property in October 2022, but H had already emptied it and the kitchen and bathrooms had 
been stripped out ready for refurbishment. Aviva reviewed the photos and video provided but 
said we cannot accept that they show any damage that we could consider to be one off 
incidents of malicious damage that would be covered under the policy.
I think Aviva has followed a reasonable process. It has utilised reports that are available and 
considered evidence put forward by H. It hasnt been able to do a full property review itself 
as the property has been stripped. So, I have considered whether Aviva has been fair in 
declining the claim for malicious damage.
Malicious damage is damage caused to a property intentionally by another person. This is 
also sometimes known as vandalism. I have checked the policy and it doesnt define 
malicious damage, but it does state its covered by the policy. Generally, I will consider 
damage to be malicious if the person who damaged the property intended to do harm. If the 
property was damaged accidentally, through neglect or poor maintenance, I wouldnt usually 
consider this to be malicious.
H has said when the tenant moved out, the tenant allowed other people to live in the 
property. Having reviewed the evidence, its clear the house was left in a poor condition by 
the time H was able to take security of the property back. However, whilst I think its obvious 
the tenants didnt care for the property, Im not persuaded that the tenants intended to do 
harm. 
The property has rubbish and possessions strewn across the floor of the property  the 
kitchen and bathroom havent been cleaned in a long time. Its difficult to tell if attempts have 
been made to strip parts of the wallpaper  its also unclear when this may have been done. 
Furniture looks uncared for. The garden has a build-up of rubbish, and the house looks like 
its been neglected for a long period of time. However, its hard to point to any damage 
caused maliciously  the damage looks consistent with neglect and poor maintenance. The 
people living in the property havent looked after it. Theyve neglected it for a while. 
Therefore, as I think its less likely the damage was caused maliciously, I think Aviva has 
been fair in declining the claim. So, I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Aviva Insurance Limited 
to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman