DRN-2849780
The complaint
Mr R complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited has registered a default on his credit 
file for the wrong date. He wants the entry to be corrected.
What happened
Mr R explains that he signed a Trust Deed on 25 March 2020 which became a Protected 
Trust Deed on 25 May 2020. He says Link has agreed to amend the date of the default to 25 
May 2020.  But he believes that it should be recorded from the date he first signed the deed. 
Mr R says other creditors have agreed to record the default from March 2020. He also wants 
an account which is recorded as being a bank account to be amended to show that it relates 
to a credit card.
Link says that the debts about which Mr R complains were assigned to it in August 2020. It 
says that the Trust Deed becomes active on the date it becomes protected. And so the 
default is recorded on the same date. It says it will report the account which was previously 
recorded as a bank account as a credit card in line with Mr Rs request.
Our investigator didnt think Link had made a mistake. She thought there was a period 
between a Trust Deed being signed and becoming protected. And in that time, it was open to 
creditors to object. And so the Trust Deed didnt become legally binding until it was 
protected. Which was the date used by Link to record the default.
Mr R didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr R feels strongly about this issue. And he doesnt want to be 
disadvantaged, as he sees it, by Link recording a later default date than his other creditors.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
As Mr R knows a Trust Deed is a type of personal insolvency available in Scotland. It is a 
formal agreement for certain types of debts to be repaid.
Ive looked at the guidance given by the Accountant in Bankruptcy / The Scottish Insolvency 
Service. Its Trust Deed Guide explains that a Trust Deed is a voluntary arrangement 
between a debtor and creditors and isnt binding. Whereas a Protected Trust Deed is binding 
on all creditors.
After an individual signs a Trust Deed theres a five week period for creditors to respond. 
And if sufficient creditors agree, a Protected Trust Deed commences which is binding on all 
that persons creditors.
Ive looked at The Information Commissioners Office guidelines which state:
The default date must be consistent with that of the CCJ/bankruptcy or IVA; therefore a 
default should be filed as being no later than the date of the insolvency order.
I think that allows for two likely interpretations. Either of which in my view is reasonable.
The first is the date the (non-binding) Trust Deed was signed by Mr R. Its agreed that this 
was 25 March 2020.
And the second option is the date the (binding) Protected Trust Deed becomes effective. 
In Mr Rs case thats 25 May 2020. 
I say that as even though Mr R signed the Trust Deed in March 2020, there was a period of 
time in which his creditors could have objected to it. And so the debts that Link now owns 
may not have become protected.
It should be noted that the ICO guidelines refer to the default being recorded as no later 
than the date of the insolvency order.
As the binding order only became effective on 25 May 2020, I find that Link is entitled to use 
that date.
That Link wasnt the owner of the debt at the time Mr R signed the Trust Deed doesnt to my 
mind alter things. Its the owner of the debt now and is responsible for reporting defaults on 
its accounts. 
Im aware that Mr Rs other creditors have applied defaults from 25 March 2020. But thats a 
matter for those businesses. Ive already explained that I thought it was reasonable for either 
date to be used.
My role is to look at the actions of Link. And based on what Ive seen, Ive concluded that 
Link hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly in recording the date of the default. So I cant 
fairly order it to change this. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman