DRN-3659941
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard locked his account, 
causing him to miss payments. He says it then recorded late payment markers on his credit 
file, which he would like it to remove.
What happened
Mr W holds a credit card account with Barclaycard. He says that Barclaycard suspended his 
card and limited access to his online account. He says it told him that the only way he could 
make payments to his account was over the phone, but whenever he tried to call he couldnt 
get through. Mr W says that, as a result, he couldnt make payments to his credit card 
account for a few months. Barclaycard recorded late payment markers on his credit file, but 
Mr W says it should remove them as it wasnt his fault that he couldnt make the payments. 
Barclaycard says that Mr Ws online account was temporarily locked on a few occasions 
because he entered the log-in details incorrectly. It says that Mr W reset the account details 
after around four months, at which point he was able to access its online services again. 
Barclaycard says that Mr W didnt make any payments to his credit card account between 
March and May 2022. It has apologised for the long wait times when Mr W contacted it by 
phone. But it says he could have reset his online banking security earlier or made payment 
to the credit card account by another method. So, it says it hasnt made a mistake here and 
the late payments have been reported correctly. 
As a goodwill gesture, Barclaycard stopped the interest on Mr Ws account for two months. 
But Mr W wasnt happy with Barclaycards response to his complaint and asked this service 
to look into it. Our Investigator didnt think Barclaycard had done anything wrong. But Mr W 
didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says that Barclaycard told him he couldnt have access to its online services because 
his account was suspended and thats why he missed the payments. The evidence Ive seen 
confirms that Mr Ws credit card account was closed in September 2021 because payments 
were overdue. Im satisfied that the account closure didnt prevent him from accessing his 
account or making payments. The account was closed several months before the failed log-
in attempts. And Mr Ws statements show that he had been able to make some payments to 
the account after it had been closed. 
Im satisfied that the reason Mr W was locked out of his online account was because he 
entered the security details incorrectly on several occasions between February and June 
2022. I think it was reasonable for Barclaycard to lock the account on those occasions, to 
protect Mr Ws account and prevent fraud. Barclaycard says that its app is linked to the 
online service, so access to the app may have been restricted as well due to the online 
service being locked. I dont find that to be unreasonable.
Mr W says he was told that he wouldnt be able to access his account because he didnt 
have a card. I understand that he no longer has the plastic card since the account was 
closed. Barclaycards letter of 27 May 2022 said that customers need to have a credit card to 
be able to register for its app, but it couldnt issue a replacement card to Mr W because his 
account is closed. I think thats reasonable. In any event, I dont find that Mr W needed 
access to the app in order to make payments to his account as there were other ways to pay 
(which Ill come on to below).
The evidence Ive seen shows that Mr W contacted Barclaycard in May 2022 about the 
problems he was having logging into his account. Following this, in early June 2022, 
Barclaycard sent him a one-time passcode and Mr W attempted to reset his log-in details. As 
the passcode was entered incorrectly, the account was temporarily locked again for one 
hour. But, later the same day, Mr W managed to reset his login details and access 
Barclaycards online services. So, very shortly after contacting Barclaycard about the issue, 
Mr W was able to access his account again.
I think its reasonable to expect Mr W to have contacted Barclaycard earlier to try and reset 
the security on his account, especially as he knew there was an outstanding balance and 
payments were falling due. I havent seen anything to suggest that Barclaycard caused the 
delay or acted unfairly in relation to the locking or re-setting of the account. So I cant safely 
conclude that it was Barclaycards fault that Mr W wasnt able to log into his account 
between February and June 2022.
Mr W says its not his fault that he missed some payments as he tried calling Barclaycard but 
couldnt get through. He says he was told by Barclaycard that the only way to make 
payments was to call. Barclaycard acknowledges that there were long call waiting times. But 
it says that Mr W could have paid by visiting a branch. Its letter of 27 May 2022 said that Mr 
W could pay by setting up a direct debit or transferring the funds from his bank account, not 
just by calling Customer Services. It also said that, when Mr W had called in February 2022, 
its advisor had offered to set up a direct debit, but Mr W said he would arrange this another 
time. So, I think Mr W was aware that there were other ways to pay and I dont find it to be 
Barclaycards fault that he missed some payments. Therefore, I dont think it acted unfairly 
by reporting the late payments to the Credit Reference Agencies.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, but I dont think Barclaycard made any mistakes or acted 
unfairly here, so Im not going to ask it to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman