DRN-3984779
The complaint
A company I shall refer to as W complains about the decision of American International 
Group UK Limited to decline its business interruption insurance claim, made as a result of 
the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of the events and the relevant arguments. 
Additionally, whilst other parties have been involved, I have just referred to W and American 
International Group UK Limited (AIG) for the sake of simplicity. 
W operates as a public house and held a commercial insurance policy with AIG. The policy 
provided a number of areas of cover, including for business interruption. In March 2020, W 
was forced to close its premises as a result of the government-imposed restrictions 
introduced in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. It contacted AIG to claim for its loss of 
income, but AIG declined the claim. 
Essentially, AIG said that whilst the policy did include cover for business interruption caused 
by disease, this was limited to a specified list of diseases. W was unhappy with this, saying 
that the policy provided cover for any Notifiable Disease and that COVID-19 was included 
on the Government maintained list of notifiable diseases. When AIG did not change its 
stance, W brought its claim to the Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator did not think that AIG had come to an incorrect conclusion in relation to the 
disease cover in the policy. But she did think that AIG should reconsider the claim under the 
Bomb Hoax wording within the policy. AIG agreed to this. But W remained unsatisfied.
Ws complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
W has made detailed submissions which I have considered. I note the various arguments 
put forward, but I am going to focus on what I consider to be the key issues. Having thought 
about these, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on W, I wont be coming to a different conclusion to our Investigator. 
I understand that W closed its business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. The starting point is to consider the specific policy W took out. 
The policy
The policy wording confirms that the schedules and endorsements form part of the policy. It 
then goes on to set out the defined words that apply to the policy. It states in the Definitions 
part of the policy wording:
Within this Policy there are certain words shown in italics, which have special 
meanings. These words are defined below.
A number of terms are then defined and this includes Notifiable Disease. 
However, the endorsement which is relevant to and forms part of the policy says, under the 
section relating to the Definitions part of the policy: 
The definition for Notifiable Disease is deleted and replaced by:
Notifiable Disease
Illness sustained by any person resulting from any of the following: Acute 
Encephalitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, Erysipelas, 
Legionellosis, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Lyme Disease, Malaria, Measles, 
Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, 
Plague (bubonic, pneumonic, septicaemic), Poliomyelitis, Puerperal Fever, Rabies, 
Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, or Toxoplasmosis, Tuberculosis, Typhoid 
Fever, Typhus, Viral Haemorrhagic Fever, Viral Hepatitis (types A, B & C), Whooping 
Cough or Yellow Fever.
The policy wording then goes on to set out what is provided under the different areas of 
cover, including section A2 Business Interruption. This initially sets out the core cover, which 
essentially relates to situations where property has been damaged, and then confirms that 
there is additional cover to this. Loss of income occurring during the indemnity period 
resulting from a number of situations is covered. Included in this is cover 4.0 Notifiable 
Disease. 
Once again however, the part of endorsement to the policy relating to section A2  Business 
Interruption includes the following:
4.0 Notifiable Disease is deleted and replaced by:
4.0 Notifiable Disease
An outbreak of any Notifiable Disease occurring at the Premises or which is 
attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises, or occurring within twenty 
five miles of the Premises, which by reason of the abnormal number of cases causes 
prospective guests to refrain from making bookings for accommodation, or gives 
legal grounds for guests to cancel bookings for accommodation already made.
Having set out the relevant section of the policy, I will consider whether AIG fairly and 
reasonably applied these to the circumstance of Ws claim. 
Notifiable disease
The Government maintains a list of what are defined in legislation1 as notifiable diseases. 
And COVID-19 was added to this list in March 2020 (in England). W has said that the term 
1 The Health Protection (Notification) Regulations 2010, as amendednotifiable disease refers to this list and that:
There is only one list of Notifiable Diseases in existence in the UK, and Covid-19 is 
categorised as a Notifiable Disease on that list.
However, as W has also pointed out, when considering how a contract of insurance should 
be interpreted it is necessary to think about, as the Supreme Court put it in The Financial 
Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC 1 (the FCA test 
case  which includes reference to the related judgment in the court at first instance):
how the words of the contract would be understood by a reasonable person. In the 
case of an insurance policy of the present kind, sold principally to SMEs, the person 
to whom the document should be taken to be addressed is not a pedantic lawyer who 
will subject the entire policy wording to a minute textual analysis (cf Jumbo King Ltd v 
Faithful Properties Ltd (1999) 2 HKCFAR 279, para 59). It is an ordinary policyholder 
who, on entering into the contract, is taken to have read through the policy 
conscientiously in order to understand what cover they were getting.
I consider this means that a person entering a contract of insurance can be expected to have 
read through the policy, and then interpreted the meaning of any part of it in the context of 
that policy. Ws policy, via the endorsement, includes a definition for Notifiable Disease. 
And this is the specified list of diseases set out above. The term appears in italics where 
used in the policy, and so has the special meaning provided by this definition. 
As such, where this term is used in the additional cover 4.0, it is this definition in the policy 
that needs to be used, rather than the everyday meaning of the word  i.e. those diseases 
on the Government maintained list.
Taking this into account, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have provided W 
with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one of the 
diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for AIG to include it in the policy 
at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think 
AIG intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. AIG deliberately 
chose to define Notifiable Disease by reference to a static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
I do appreciate that using the same terminology as used in the legislation referred to above, 
but giving this a different meaning, might not be considered to be the most helpful. However, 
whilst I note Ws comments that this deception, I do not agree that the policy is unclear or 
misleading. 
Again, I note the above quote from the judgment that what is relevant is the understanding a 
reasonable person would have having read through the policy. And I think AIG were clear 
that the term Notifiable Disease where used and italicised in the policy had the meaning 
given to it by the definition in the policy. Policies will often provide their own definitions for 
words that have different meanings elsewhere. But as long as they do so clearly, this is not 
inappropriate. 
W has also referred to the inclusion of the word any within cover 4.0, saying that this means any notifiable disease is included. However, the use of any is in conjunction with the 
defined term. So, cover is provided in relation to any Notifiable Disease, i.e. any of the 
diseases included in the list in the policy. 
Cover 4.0 does not have any exclusions or limitations list against it. But it is necessary to 
consider whether a clause provides cover in the first instance before considering any 
exclusions that might impact that cover. And whilst I note Ws reference to the Courts 
comments around Exclusion L, I dont think it would be unreasonable to consider whether 
any italicised words in the policy carried a particular meaning  even if this meant referring to 
a separate part of the policy. I also consider that is was clear the endorsement document 
was of importance and that it would be reasonable to expect a policyholder to have read this.
W has also said the findings of the FCA test case on disease clauses should be applied to 
its claim. AIG has indicated that the FCA test case did not involve policy wordings which 
included a specified list of diseases. W has pointed out, quite correctly, that a number of the 
policies included did in fact have such wordings. However, the key point is what the Courts 
in the FCA test case were looking at in relation to these wordings. The Courts made findings 
in relation to different parts of different policies. 
The findings on disease clauses were made in relation to clauses that covered all diseases 
included in the Government maintained list of notifiable diseases. These findings did not 
include any assessment of a policy that was limited to an exhaustive list of disease set out in 
that policy. Those policies that did include such specified lists of diseases were only 
considered by the Courts in relation to the public emergency clauses that they contained. 
This is seen clearly when looking at the policies mentioned part D of the judgment of the first 
instance, which focused on the disease clauses. The policies mentioned here did not include 
those referred to by W as including a specified list of diseases. These policies are only 
mentioned in part F of the judgment and the focus here was not on the disease clauses. 
Ultimately, in order for the Courts findings in relation to the disease clauses to apply, the 
relevant policy must be one that provides cover in relation the Government maintained list of 
notifiable diseases. As Ive set out above, this is not the case for Ws policy. It follows that 
the findings of the FCA test case in relation to the disease clauses does not apply to Ws 
claim or complaint. 
The policy definition of Notifiable Disease does include Plague (bubonic, pneumonic, 
septicaemic) and W has, essentially, also said that the COVID-19 pandemic was a plague 
and that COVID-19 caused pneumonia, so cover should be provided for the claim. AIG and 
our Investigator have referred to the findings in Rockliffe Hall Ltd v Travelers Insurance Co 
Ltd [2021] EWHC 412 (Comm) (Rockliffe). It should be noted that this was a summary 
judgment, however I also consider the comments made to be helpful nonetheless. 
W has said that this judgment is not relevant because the judge had said that the wordings 
before her were not the same as those considered by the FCA test case. As Ive set out 
above though, the findings of the FCA test case on disease clauses do not apply to Ws 
policy. So, I do think the judges comments in Rockliffe, which involved a policy containing 
an exhaustive list of diseases, are something for me to consider in relation to Ws complaint.
I am not persuaded that the inclusion of Plague means Ws policy covers COVID-19. The 
understanding a reasonable person would have of such a term in a contract of insurance needs to be considered by the context provided by that contract, in view of the wider factual 
and legal background. 
The context given by the immediate surroundings of this term are, in my view, informative of 
its meaning. The rest of this definition is comprised of a list of a specific diseases, many of 
which would fall into the definition W favours. So, the inclusion of these other diseases would 
not be necessary if Plague had such a broad meaning. And this context suggests that the 
use of Plague in this list of specific diseases is also a reference to a specific disease.
Plague has a specific medical classification and the World Health Organisation lists it as an 
infectious disease in its own right caused by a particular bacterium, Yersinia Pestis. There 
are three different types of Plague - bubonic, septicaemic and pneumonic. These are the 
three listed in Ws policy. So, I consider Ws policy was clear that it was in relation to these 
specific types of the specific disease Plague that cover was provided.
Whilst the construction of W's policy is different to that considered by the court in Rockliffe, I 
have noted the reasoning of the judge in this case, which considered the interpretation of the 
term Plague in similar circumstances and which supports my conclusions above.
Overall, I am persuaded that a court would consider that a reasonable person with the 
background knowledge of W at the time the contract was entered, would have interpreted 
this term as being a reference to the specific disease of Plague rather than as a catch-all for 
all wide-spreading diseases.
Ultimately, I consider the policy clearly intended to cover only certain specified diseases. 
And I dont think it can fairly and reasonably be read in a different way. Ws claim resulted 
from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As cover was not 
provided under this area of Ws policy for losses resulting from business interruption caused 
by COVID-19, I am satisfied AIGs decision to decline the claim under this area of cover was 
in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Bomb Hoax
Ws policy also includes a clause providing cover for business interruption caused by certain 
circumstances under the Bomb Hoax, Bomb Scare clause. I have not set out the details of 
this cover though, as I do not need to consider these within this decision. 
As part of our inquisitorial remit, our Investigator thought about the cover provided by this 
clause when considering Ws complaint about the decline of its claim. And AIG has agreed 
to reconsider Ws claim under this area of cover, in line with the Investigators 
recommendations. 
As AIG is no longer declining Ws claim under this area of the policy, I have not considered 
this issue in depth. I have thought about what I would direct AIG to do if I considered this 
part of the policy did provide cover though. This would be to direct AIG to reconsider Ws 
claim on the basis that the clause did provide cover. As this is what has been agreed, I do 
not consider I need to make any further findings here.
Putting things right
American International Group UK Limited should reconsider Ws claim under the Bomb 
Hoax, Bomb Scare clause of the policy, if it has not already done so following the 
Investigators opinion.My final decision
My final decision is to partly uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman