DRN-4034330
The complaint
Mr C complained that the charges imposed at the end of his car finance agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) were too high. 
What happened
Mr C acquired a car using a Personal Contract Plan (PCP) with MBFS. The agreement 
started in July 2018 and ran for 48 months. There was a deposit of £733.16 and 48 monthly 
payments of £152.06. At the end of the term, Mr C could either return the car or make a 
lump sum payment to purchase it. Mr C chose to return the car, and it was collected from 
him in August 2022. 
Following collection of the car, MBFS asked Mr C to pay end-of-contract charges totalling 
£1,335.99, broken down as £784.54 for damage to the car, £345.00 for service costs and 
£206.45 for extra days usage (as the car was collected after the contract end date.
The damage costs were as follows:
Bumper, front grill insecure - £35.00
Bumper, front, scratched - £210.00
Lamp, right hand rear, scratched - £99.54
Wheel, left hand front rim, damaged - £110.00
Wheel, left hand rear spoke, damaged - £110.00
Wheel, right hand front spoke, damaged - £110.00
Wheel, right hand rear spoke, damaged - £110.00
The charge of £345 was for a service, which MBFS said was overdue by 957 days, and the 
additional usage costs were charged because MBFS said its agent had been unable to 
arrange collection of the car at the end of the contract.
Mr C was unhappy about these charges, so he complained to MBFS. I can see that MBFS 
reduced the additional usage charge, as part of the delay in collection was the responsibility 
of its agent, but otherwise it said it did not uphold his complaint.. Mr C was still unhappy, so 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr C 
disagreed and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
MBFS sent in copies of the finance agreement (which includes a list of the vehicle return 
standards (VRS)), photographs of the damaged areas of the car, the inspection report, and 
its invoice for the charges. Mr C sent his account of the sequence of events. Ive carefully 
considered all of the information and evidence provided by both parties.
Ive also taken into account the guidance issued by the industry trade body - the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) - about charges made when a vehicle is 
returned at the end of the hire period. A vehicle will naturally incur a degree of wear and tear 
over the course of a few years, and the BVRLAs guidance sets out what can be considered 
fair wear and tear when returning a vehicle, and what damage can reasonably be charged 
for. Whilst MBFS are not members of the BVLRA, I consider the guidance to be an example 
of good industry practice so have taken it into account in reaching my decision. 
When the car was returned, it was inspected when it was collected by an agent of MBFS on 
19 August 2022, and again three days later, after which MBFS issued the invoice for the 
charges. The mileage on collection was 5,975.
With regard to the service charge of £345, I can see from the collection document that Mr C 
didnt provide a service history, and indeed it appears that the car had not been serviced 
during its four years in Mr Cs possession. Mr C said this was because hed been told at the 
dealership that a service wouldnt be required until the car had done 7,000 miles. Ive 
thought about what Mr C said, but I think he ought reasonably to have expected to need to 
have the car serviced at set intervals. I also note that it seems the cars systems would have 
indicated the need for a service, and the documentation provided with the car is likely to 
have set out the relevant timeframe. The VRS information shows that document states that 
A full service history is required. So Im satisfied that the charge imposed by MBFS in this 
respect was reasonable.  
Turning to the areas of damage and the charges, Ive looked at the images provided by 
MBFS, alongside the VRS document and the BVLRA guidance. The VRS information was 
included as part of the hire agreement, so I think Mr C would reasonably have been able to 
check the information over to see what repairs might be necessary to prepare the car for 
return. And the VRS information states that if the standards are not met on return of the 
vehicle, the hirer has to pay for the repairs. 
In relation to the wheels, the images provided by MBFS show scratching. The damage areas 
are larger than the acceptable limits in both the VRS and the BVRLA guidance, so I think 
MBFS was fair to charge for these. 
With regards to the front bumper, the images show scratching which is again larger than the 
acceptable limits in both the VRS and the BVRLA guidance. So again I think MBFS war fair 
in charging for this. Ive also no reason to doubt the charge for the front grille.
Ive also considered the right-hand rear lamp, and again I think the charge for this in line with 
the VRS and the BVRLA guidance/
Having concluded that it was fair for MBFS to charge for the items of damage, I went on to 
check that the charges were in line with its stated matrix of charges, which is available 
online, and Im satisfied that they were. The final charge was for additional use. MBFS says that, whilst Mr C gave notification before 
the end of the contact that he wanted to return the car, it was unable to reach him to arrange 
for collection until afterwards, despite repeated attempts. I accept that Mr C said the car was 
registered as being off the road, but nonetheless it was in his possession after the end of the 
contract, and I think he could have arranged for collection to take place earlier than it did. So 
I dont think it was unreasonable for MBFS to charge for that. 
Mr C argued that he should only have been dealing with MBFS, but it is standard practice for 
agents to be appointed to collect cars in these circumstances, so its reasonable for Mr C to 
have had to arrange with an agent for the return of the car, including the transfer of keys so 
as to avoid any potential for theft. 
Overall, based on the evidence and information provided, Im satisfied the charges applied 
by MBFS when Mr C returned the car at the end of the PCP, were fair and reasonable. So, 
although I do understand that Mr C feels strongly about this, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman