DRN-1188614
 
The complaint
Mr D complains about Allianz Insurance Plcs actions when he made a claim under his 
mobile phone insurance. My references to Allianz include its agents.
What happened
Mr D has mobile phone insurance, the insurer is Allianz. In March 2019 Mr D claimed under 
the policy for a damaged phone and received a replacement phone. On 8 April 2019 he 
claimed for the loss of the replacement phone. Mr D was unhappy with Allianzs customer 
service in the second claim call but the claim was accepted and Mr D received a 
replacement phone.
Mr D then found the first replacement phone, so he had two phones. On 29 April 2019 Mr D 
called Allianz to see if he could return the second phone and have the excess payment for 
the second claim refunded. Allianz refused to refund the excess, asked him to return the 
found phone and sent him a pre-paid return bag to do so. It said the bag included return 
instructions, which Mr D disputed. The instruction letter says the bag needs to be taken to a 
local post office for a tracking number so a consumer can track the phone through to Allianz 
receiving it.
Mr D said he put the phone in the pre-paid bag in a post box. He didnt get a tracking 
number for the posted item. Allianz didnt receive the phone so it added the cost of the 
phone handset to Mr Ds account.
Mr D complained that Allianz had treated him unfairly. He said in a call on 23 May 2019 
Allianz accepted it hadnt given him clear instructions about returning his phone and cleared 
the charge for the unreturned phone. On 24 May Allianz told him it was putting the charge 
back on. Mr D wants Allianz to remove the charge for the unreturned phone from his 
account. Initially he also asked for a refund of the second excess but hes now accepted 
Allianz doesnt need to refund.  
Allianz said it had acted within the policy terms, provided the instructions and temporarily 
removed the charge for the unreturned phone while it looked into Mr Ds complaint. It 
reinstated the charge when it heard in the 29 April call that Mr D said he would put the phone 
in the bin if the excess wasnt refunded to him.
Allianz couldnt provide us with the recordings of the two May 2019 calls where it removed 
and reinstated the charge for the unreturned phone. Our investigator relied on Allianzs notes 
of the calls made at the time. He thought Allianz had acted fairly.
Mr D disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary he said:
Allianz didnt tell him he needed to get a tracker number when he returned the phone 
which Allianz accepted in the 23 May call even if hed been posted the instructions he lives in a shared house where the post 
can be accessed by other people. Allianz had often sent him instructions by text or 
email but that didnt happen for the phone return
he didnt say he wouldnt return the phone unless the excess was refunded but said 
he may as well throw the phone in the bin. When he read the policy terms he 
changed his mind
hed previously received the May 2019 call recordings from Allianz but couldnt find 
them. Hed asked Allianz for the calls again but it said it couldnt provide them which 
he thought was very convenient for it. He sent some of Allianzs system notes it had 
sent him and thought the notes supported what he said
in the 24 May call Allianz pretended the call of 23 May hadnt happened and it offered 
compensation but put the charge back on
his second replacement phone doesnt work so hes been without a phone  for 
months and he detailed the effect thats had on him at a difficult time.
Mr D also made points about his understanding of agents' responsibilities and legislation he 
thought might apply to his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to see the personal difficulties Mr D and his family have had. But I have to decide 
whether Allianz acted fairly and reasonably and on the evidence I have I think it has. Ill 
explain why.
My decision is about Allianz and my references to Allianz include its agents. Although Mr D 
dealt with another business about the claim and charge it was acting as Allianzs agent. 
Allianz is the right business for me to make my decision about.
Ive seen Mr D's comments about legislation he thinks might apply to his case. But this isnt 
an issue about Allianz/its agent making misrepresentations. The issue is what policy terms 
apply and whether Allianz applied the terms fairly.
I note Mr D is no longer asking for Allianz to refund the second excess. For the avoidance of 
doubt, Allianz acted fairly in not returning the excess. The policy terms are clear that if Mr D 
makes a successful claim hell need to pay an excess.
The policy is also clear that if Mr Ds mobile phone is damaged or lost it becomes Allianzs 
property and if the phone is recovered after a successful claim the phone must be returned 
to Allianz or it will recover the cost from Mr D.
Whats in dispute is whether Allianz sent Mr D instructions about how to return the phone in 
the pre-paid return bag it sent him. 
Allianzs system shows the letter is included in the return bag as standard and I think its 
more likely than not the letter was in the bag sent to Mr D. He says other people have 
access to his post so I accept its possible someone removed the letter, but Allianz isnt 
responsible if that happened. And although Allianz sometimes sent Mr D information by text 
it didnt have to send him a text or email about the return instructions when the instructions 
were in the bag, which I think was probable.
Mr D says in the 23 May call Allianz accepted it hadnt sent instructions about tracking the 
phone. Ive not got the recordings for the 23 or 24 May calls but I do have Allianzs system 
notes made at the time. Allianzs notes Mr D provided say for the 23 May theres an ongoing issue and Allianz 
removed the charge from the account. But thats not enough evidence that Allianz accepted 
it hadnt sent the instructions.
Allianzs say it temporality removed the charge while it looked into Mr Ds complaint. Its 
system notes of the 23 May call show Allianz told Mr D it would listen to the calls of 8 and 29 
April and return to him within 3 working days. The notes show that when it spoke to him on 
24 May it had listened to the calls and Allianzs offer of £20 compensation was for its poor 
service on the 8 April call. Allianz also told Mr D the instruction letter was in the return bag.
Allianzs system notes overall show Allianz hadnt accepted it hadnt sent Mr D return 
instructions. They support that the removal of the charge was temporary while it looked into 
Mr Ds complaint. 
Allianz has also told Mr D it was concerned about his comment in the 29 April call that he 
would put the phone in the bin because it wasnt refunding the excess. Its note of the call 
records him as saying Ill just put it in the bin then bye. Mr D says he didnt quite say that, 
didnt mean it and had changed his mind when he read the policy terms. Even so I think 
Allianzs concern is still reasonable.
Allianzs system notes show Mr D told it he worked in insurance. If so even if he  didnt get 
the instruction letter I think he should have reasonably known that an insurer would want 
evidence that hed returned a valuable item, which the phone was. Thats particularly so 
given his comment to Allianz about putting the phone in the bin. Posting the phone without 
tracking didnt give him any evidence. 
Overall I think Allianz acted fairly and reasonably in charging Mr D for the unreturned phone.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman