DRN-1851087
The complaint
Mr G complains that British Gas Services Limited have damaged his shower while repairing 
a leak. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Although damage was caused by the engineer removing the shower plinth to access 
the leak, Mr G had signed a waiver stating:
I accept thatthe work required has been clearly explained to me, including the 
possibility of damage described above which is consequential damage and not 
covered under the terms and conditions of my British Gas Home Care PolicyBritish 
Gas will not be responsible for this damage
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the engineer was negligent in the way he 
accessed and repaired the leak. So I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable 
to hold British Gas liable for the damage that resulted from this or that they would 
need to replace the shower plinth, given that Mr G had signed a waiver agreeing that 
they would not be liable for any such consequential damage. 
I appreciate Mr G feels the waiver was misrepresented to him. But the contents of the 
waiver and what he was agreeing to are clearly presented in the document he has 
signed. So I have no reason to believe he was misled or was not able to appreciate 
what he was agreeing to.
 
The engineer denies agreeing to fit a new shower plinth free of charge  and there 
are no corresponding notes or evidence to this effect either. So I do not consider it 
would be fair and reasonable to ask British Gas to honour a promise that they have 
no knowledge of, and of which there is no evidence to substantiate. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Gs frustration, I do not uphold this complaint. 
However, he may want to consult his buildings insurance to see if the damage caused by the 
repair of the leak is covered under an alternative policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.Jack Ferris
Ombudsman