DRN-2824530
The complaint
Mr Ws complained that Homeserve Membership Limited (Homeserve) continued to collect 
the annual premium for a drainage and plumbing policy after hed told them hes sold the 
property and wanted to cancel it.
What happened
Mr W had a policy with Homeserve to cover him against issues with his plumbing and 
drainage.  The policy was automatically renewed each year and the annual premium paid by 
direct debit.
In April 2017, Mr W moved house.  He decided he wouldnt need the cover for his new 
home.  So he telephoned Homeserve to cancel the policy.  However, Homeserve continued 
to collect the annual premium in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020.
In late 2020, Mr W noticed an entry on his bank statement for the premium.  He checked 
back and found it had been collected every year.  So he contacted Homeserve to find out 
why that had happened.
Homeserve investigated.  They refunded Mr W the premium theyd received in 2020, as they 
said hed requested a refund within 28 days of the policy renewal date.  But they said they 
couldnt find any evidence that Mr W had called them in 2017  so they retained the renewal 
premiums hed paid in 2017, 2018 and 2019.
Mr W brought his complaint to us.  Our investigator considered it and concluded that 
Homeserve should refund the renewal premiums Mr W had paid after hed moved.  She 
noted that Homeserve had asked Mr W for evidence of when hed moved.  Hed sent them 
that.  So she was satisfied that, after the completion date, there was no risk that Homeserve 
would have to settle a claim under the policy.  And that meant it wasnt fair for them to retain 
the premiums Mr W had paid.
Homeserve didnt accept the investigators view.  They said that Mr W had moved to another 
property to which the policy could have been transferred  so there was still an insurable 
interest which entitled them to the premium.
Because Homeserve didnt agree with investigators view, Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint.  Ill explain why.
Both parties agree Mr W paid four renewal premiums between December 2017 and 
December 2020 for plumbing and drainage cover at his previous home.  Those premiums 
amount to £583.20  of which Homeserve have refunded £171.60.  I have to decide whether 
they should refund the balance of £411.60 too.
Homeserve asked Mr W to provide evidence that hed moved in April 2017.  He sent them 
confirmation from his solicitors  and sent a copy to us.  So Im satisfied he didnt own the 
property covered after this.
Homeserve say the policy wasnt cancelled because theyve no record Mr W contacted them 
before December 2020.  And they said that renewal documentation sent out hadnt been 
returned  so they didnt know anything was amiss.
Ive thought about this.  Mr W says he telephoned Homeserve.  I wouldnt expect him to 
have a record of that call.  Homeserve have searched their records but havent found it.  
Given the amount of time thats passed, thats not surprising. 
Ive no reason to doubt Mr W called Homeserve.  Theres no email or letter following up that 
call.  But I think the most likely reason for that is Mr W made the call and understood that his 
request had been actioned  so he didnt need to do anything else.  And Mr W wouldnt have 
been alerted to the situation by any renewal documentation, because that was all sent to his 
previous address.  
Its been said that Homeserve also sent the renewal documents by email.  Mr W says he 
never received them that way.  The screenshots Homeserve have sent dont include any 
email contact details  only a postal address.  So, on balance, Im not satisfied that Mr W 
received any documents from Homeserve which wouldve alerted him to the fact the policy 
hadnt been cancelled.
Homeserve have said Mr W couldve transferred the benefit of the policy to his new home.  
Thats true  but he didnt do that.  He chose to cancel the policy and to bear the risk of any 
plumbing and drainage problems in his new home himself.  And, as he believed hed 
cancelled the policy in 2017, I think it was improbable that hed have contacted Homeserve if 
hed had an issue.
So Im satisfied that, after Mr W moved, Homeserve werent at risk of dealing with a claim for 
him.  And on that basis, I dont think its fair they should retain premiums to insure against a 
risk that was never going to arise. 
Putting things right
 I think the fair way to put things right in this case is for Homeserve to refund the renewal 
premiums Mr W paid after he moved.  As I mentioned above, those amount to £411.60.  And 
I think its fair that Homeserve should calculate and pay Mr W simple interest on each of 
those premiums, at the rate of 8% per annum, from the date they received them until the 
date they repay them.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint and directing Homeserve 
Membership Limited to pay him 
the premiums he paid in December 2017 (£105.60), 2018 (£138.00) and 2019 
(£168.00)  a total of £411.60;
simple interest on those premiums calculated at the rate of 8% per annum from the 
dates Homeserve received them until the date they repay them.  If Homeserve 
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman