DRN-1636889
Complaint
Mr H says that Lancaster Cars Limited (Lancaster Cars), trading as Lancaster Audi, 
mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when he bought a car in 2005.
Background
Mr H bought a car in August 2005 through a hire purchase agreement. At the same time he 
purchased PPI, which included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment as well as 
critical illness cover. 
Mr H describes the PPI as being paid with a single premium but the finance agreement 
shows payments were in fact paid monthly. 
Mr H says he didnt know that Lancaster Cars had sold him PPI, that he had to take it to get 
the finance and that he didnt need it. 
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be 
upheld. Because Mr H disagreed, his complaint has come to me for a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I have to take into account that because of the time that has elapsed since the sale there is 
only limited little documentation available. And in these situations, I have to look at what I 
think is more likely to have happened. So in reaching my decision I have taken into account 
what Mr H and Lancaster Cars have said together with my experience of dealing with similar 
types of complaints.
It looks as if Lancaster Cars recommended the PPI, given that Lancaster Cars sent us a 
sample demands and needs form that would have been used to help assess whether PPI 
would be eligible for the cover and whether it  would be suitable. 
I dont doubt that Mr H has given us his best recollection of what happened when he bought 
the PPI. But as things stand, the evidence and information Ive seen doesnt reasonably 
suggest that the policy wasnt optional  that Mr H didnt have a choice in taking it out. 
Ive seen that on the finance agreement a box has been ticked to show that Mr H agreed to 
take out PPI. Even if the PPI had been selected by way of an electronic tick I would have 
expected Mr H to read over the agreement before signing it. 
I dont know what the adviser said to Mr H about the PPI, but even if Lancaster Cars didnt 
take adequate steps, I still think that the PPI was on balance suitable for Mr H. Its more than likely he was eligible for the cover provided by the policy. He was over 18 years old, working, 
a UK resident and taking out a credit agreement  and these are the usual eligibility criteria 
for these types of policies.
Lancaster Cars needed to properly explain the policys exclusions and limitations to Mr H 
and it hasnt told us anything about what was actually said to him in that meeting in 2005. 
But Mr H was in full time employment and in good health at the time of the sale  so I dont 
think he wouldve been affected by any of the main policy exclusions. 
Mr H told us he had good employer benefits, but the PPI would have been likely to pay out 
for longer and in addition to those benefits. Also, having the policy in place would have 
meant he wouldnt need to dig into other financial resources if he wasnt able to work. Given 
that Ive not seen anything else that suggests Mr H couldve continued to meet his loan 
repayments if he wasnt working, I therefore think the policy wouldve been useful to him.
So taking everything into account, I think the PPI was a suitable recommendation for Mr H.
Mr H complained about the cost the cover  which was £39.04 in monthly payments. Given 
that it wouldve provided a monthly benefit to cover Mr Hs loan repayments, it seems to me 
that someone in his circumstances might have concluded that the policy provided a 
worthwhile cover. And in the event that he no longer wanted to have the benefit of the cover, 
or found the cover too expensive, he couldve cancelled the policy at any time.
So, having considered this case very carefully, although I accept there may well have been 
some shortcomings in how the policy was sold, Im not currently persuaded Mr H wouldve 
decided against taking it out if hed been properly informed. It seems more likely to me in the 
circumstances that he had some interest in protecting his loan repayments and chose to go 
ahead with the policy.
I realise my finding will disappoint Mr H and regret that we are unable to assist him further on 
this occasion. 
It follows that I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the policy was mis-sold and so I am not 
upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman