DRN-3554012
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing (IWeb) 
incorrectly set up limit orders on her Individual savings account (ISA) on-line share dealing 
account and her nominee account.
What happened
Mrs M had an on-line ISA share dealing account with IWeb. On 3 December 2020 the 
account recorded three transactions in relation to shares in a company I will call E. 
1:37:11 pm - A limit order was created to sell 6000 shares in E at a price of £3.63.
1:37:14 pm - The above limit order executes selling 6000 shares in E at a price of 
£4.05.
1:38:46 pm - A stop-loss order under reference ***181 was created to sell 6000 
shares in E at a price of £3.63. This replaced the stop loss order under ***651 
created on 12th November 2020. The stop loss order ***181 later expired and was 
never executed.
There was a further transaction on a nominee account the same day relating to shares in a 
company I will call G. 
1:43:51pm - A limit order was created to sell 5536 shares in G at a price of £2.05.
1:43:53 pm  The limit order executes selling 5536 shares in G £2.28.
Through her representative, Mrs M complained to IWeb that she hadnt created the limit 
order placed at 1:37:11 pm and said this was a system error. Mrs Ms representative said 
this created a significant financial loss as the limit order for the shares in E executed before 
the stop-loss order she placed could be executed. And that there was also a financial loss in 
respect of shares sold in company G.
IWeb provided a final response and didnt uphold the complaint. They said theyd carried out 
an investigation of their systems and couldnt find any errors. IWeb said they were satisfied 
limit orders had been processed correctly and had been completed on-line. Mrs M didnt 
agree with IWeb and brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators looked into things for Mrs M and thought it was more likely than not 
IWeb processed the limit orders correctly. Mrs Ms representative didnt accept what the 
Investigator concluded and asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint. The case has 
been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs M will be disappointed, but Ive decided not to uphold the complaints she 
had made against IWeb. I will now explain why.
Although Mrs M and her representative believe the IWeb platform created the limit orders for 
company E and G, IWeb carried out a review of their systems and their IT department have 
told us their system is not capable of generating a limit order independently. IWeb say orders 
can only be placed on-line in the account, or by telephone, in which case IWeb would 
manually enter the order. Mrs M provided copies of her dealing account and although 
previous manual trades have been made, there is nothing to support one was requested or 
made on either of the two trades in question.
Company E shares
Mrs Ms representative says its unlikely a limit order could be placed on-line and then 
another order  the stop loss order  be placed within such a short time. However, Ive seen 
screenshots of the actual limit orders and the screen that would need to be completed to 
enter an order. I consider its quite reasonable for a stop-loss order to be placed on-line 
relatively quickly, and within the time between 1:37:11 pm and 1:38.46 pm. 
Ive not seen any evidence to support the limit order placed at 1:37:11 pm was placed by 
IWeb, that it was a system error, or that there is any indication IWeb were asked to carry out 
a manual trade by telephone. I consider it more likely  the stop-loss order was created on-
line and it took place on the account one and a half minutes later after the limit order had 
executed  Taking this information into account,  I consider its more likely both orders were 
created on-line in quick succession and not by IWeb or their system.
Having decided the limit order was more likely placed on-line and not by IWeb, I looked at 
what happened next. As the share price for company E was exceeding £3.63 the limit order 
was almost immediately executed. Its not unusual for an order like this to complete so 
quickly. Mrs M says that if it had completed so quickly, then the IWeb system shouldve 
rejected the stop-loss order made immediately, and she feels this is supportive of a system 
error. The settlement date for this transaction was several days ahead, however the stop-
loss was entered on-line after the limit order had been executed. The same shares had 
already been sold and therefore it couldnt be executed. I accept Mrs M is disappointed the 
stop-loss order doesnt show on her account history, but she no longer had the shares to 
sell. The stop-loss order couldnt be completed and, as Ive seen that it later expired, I dont 
consider IWeb did anything wrong here.
Company G shares 
The complaint Mrs M makes about the company G shares is similar in nature to the one 
about the company E shares. However, in this case there is only one entry that is disputed. 
Mrs M says that IWeb, or their system, erroneously created a limit order placed on 3 
December 2020 and that the executed sale caused her a financial loss on the shares.
Ive not seen any evidence to support IWeb or their system created this order. And, Im 
mindful that the order was placed around the same time there was on-line activity on the 
account of Mrs M. This activity occurred some five minutes after the stop-loss order was 
placed for the sale of shares on company E. So, I consider its more likely than not the stop-
loss order for the shares in company G was placed on-line and not by IWeb or their system. My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint that Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as 
IWeb Share Dealing incorrectly set up limit orders on her on-line ISA share dealing account 
and her nominee account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman