DRN-4107469
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wrongly allowed his ex-partner to 
withdraw money from a joint savings account.
What happened
Mr P had a joint savings account with his ex-partner. He contacted Santander as he was 
having a dispute with his ex-partner and he wanted to change the signature mandate for the 
account from either to sign to both to sign.
Whilst Santander was processing this request Mr Ps ex-partner transferred around £75,000 
from the joint savings account to a joint current account and then on to an account just held 
by Mr Ps ex-partner. 
Mr P complained to Santander regarding this and requested a refund of the money 
transferred out of the savings account. Santander said that it had followed its own 
procedures and declined Mr Ps request.
One of our investigators looked into this matter already and they concluded that Santander 
should have done more to prevent that money being transferred out of the joint savings 
account such as blocking internet banking. They said that they could not ask Santander to 
refund the transfer as he was unsure who was entitled to the funds and this would need to 
be sorted out between Mr P and his ex-partner but they thought that Santander should pay 
£200 compensation for the distress caused by this matter.
Santander agreed with this but Mr P did not. So this case has been passed to me to issue a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems clear to me that Santander was on notice of the dispute between Mr P and his ex-
partner. That means it shouldve taken care to make sure that one party could not withdraw 
any funds from the account. But Santander didnt do this. 
So while Santander has made a mistake here, this doesnt necessarily mean that itd be right 
for this service to recommend that Mr P should get the money that Mr Ps ex-partner 
withdrew back.
Were a dispute resolution service and my role here is limited to considering the 
circumstances of this individual complaint  from Mr P. But this was an account that was 
held jointly and we dont have the other account holders consent to consider the complaint. 
In the circumstances I dont think its very likely shed consent to us looking at this matter.
So by saying that Mr P should get this money back, Id in effect be deciding that hes entitled 
to it over his ex-partner. But I dont know that. And this would be commenting on something 
that, in my view, is better addressed by a court. This wouldnt be appropriate in my view. 
But, Santander should acknowledge the impact this mistake has had on Mr P. I think this will 
have clearly been upsetting and worrying for him. Thats especially true where Mr P was 
proactive and tried to stop an issue like this happening. So Santander should compensate 
him for that. Its agreed to pay £200, and I think thats a fair amount in the circumstances. 
I realise this wont go as far as Mr P thinks it should and that hell likely be disappointed by 
this as an outcome. But I hope he understands why I cant ask Santander to do any more 
than its already offered here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Mr P £200 to resolve his complaint, if 
it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman