DRN-4067121
Complaint
Mrs L has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mrs L with a loan for £2,500.00 in May 2022. This loan had an APR 
of 39.9% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£3,996.36, including interest, fees and charges of £1,496.36, was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of just over £110. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mrs Ls complaint and she thought 118 118 Money 
shouldnt have provided Mrs L with her loan. So he thought that Mrs Ls complaint should be 
upheld. 
118 118 Money didnt respond to our adjudicators assessment so the case was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision as per the next stage of our dispute resolution process.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ls complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is 118 118 Money needed to find out enough about Mrs L such that it could have a 
reasonable understanding of whether Mrs L could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information 118 118 Money has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check. 
The credit check showed that Mrs L was already significantly indebted and had had 
previously had difficulties with credit. I can see that she had defaulted accounts and an 
active county court judgement against her. 
Mrs L was already using most of the credit available to her on her revolving credit 
commitments and had recently taken out new accounts, indicating that she may have been 
developing a reliance on credit. So I think that 118 118 Money ought to have obtained more 
further information from Mrs L in order to have been able to make an informed decision on 
whether to lend to her. 
 
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Mrs L has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time she took out this loan. And while its 
possible Mrs Ls indebtedness reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add 
that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any 
reasonable or plausible arguments from 118 118 Money, Ive been persuaded to accept   
Mrs Ls version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mrs Ls existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without suffering adverse 
consequences or borrowing further. 
And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Mrs Ls circumstances would more like than 
not have shown 118 118 Money that it shouldnt have provided this loan to her. As 118 118 
Money provided Mrs L with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards her. 
Mrs L ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Mrs L lost out because of what 118 118 Money did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Mrs L
Having thought about everything, 118 118 Money should put things right for Mrs L by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Mrs Ls loan from the outset. The 
payments Mrs L made, whether to 118 118 Money or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £2,500.00 originally lent. If 
Mrs L has already paid 118 118 Money more than £2,500.00 then it should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mrs L;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mrs L to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information 118 118 Money recorded about this loan should be removed from          
Mrs Ls credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest.            
118 118 Money must give Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ls complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman