DRN-3888111
The complaint
Mr G has complained that the terms on which he could reside in a static caravan, which was 
financed by Black Horse Finance Limited, were misrepresented to him. He also says that 
Black Horse refused to honour the holiday parks offer to reverse the sale.
What happened
Mr G entered into a finance agreement with Black Horse, for a static caravan based at a 
holiday park. However, hes explained that the park misrepresented the terms on which he 
could reside in the caravan. Specifically, he was told he could live there all year round. But it 
turns out he can only be there for 10 months of the year, and it mustnt be his permanent 
residence. Further, he says that when he raised his concerns with the park, it said it would 
reverse the sale, but Black Horse hasnt honoured this.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He was satisfied that Mr G had 
signed documentation that made it clear that he couldnt reside permanently in the park, and 
that he understood its seasonal opening times. Accordingly, he didnt think that Black Horse 
had acted unfairly.
Mr G disagreed. He provided witness statements from himself and his partner, describing 
what they were told by the sales representative. In particular, that it was 10 months of the 
year, but the park hadnt closed its doors for the last three years and had no intention of 
closing its doors going forwards and that the term is tongue in cheek.
Mr G has explained that it was at this time that he signed the contract, on the computer, but 
it wasnt read out to him, and he wasnt asked to read it himself.
Mr G also provided a brief tape recording, which he says supports his position that a holiday 
park offered to reverse the sale. He feels Black Horse refused to honour this.
The complaints now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
As the finance provider, Black Horse can be held responsible for any misrepresentations 
made as regards the goods and/or services that it is financing. So here, it could be held 
responsible if the holiday park made a misrepresentation. A misrepresentation, for these 
purposes, is a material statement of fact, which is untrue. Further, Mr G needs to have relied 
upon it  and would not have entered into the contract, had he known it to be untrue.
Here, Mr G has explained that he was led to believe he could live in the caravan full time, all 
year round. However, this is not supported by the paperwork he signed. Hes explained this 
was done on a computer and he didnt read it/have it read to him by the sales representative, 
but the paperwork Ive seen has been signed by hand, including Mr Gs initials alongside the 
key clauses  including that the caravan is not to be used as a permanent residence. Its 
also been signed by the park manager, not by the sales representative that Mr G has said 
misled him, and who gave him the contract to sign on the computer.
The park has explained that following the discussion with the sales representative, Mr G was 
given time to think about things, before he had a meeting with the park manager to finalise 
things. I find this more persuasive, as the signatures on the paperwork support this. 
I will consider the issue of what the sales representative said. I cannot know for certain, but if 
I accept Mr Gs (and his partners) recollection, then it was not the same as the paperwork 
Mr G later signed. The caravan was an expensive purchase. So, if the paperwork didnt tie in 
with what Mr G thought about residency, Id have expected him to question that at the 
meeting with the park manager. But I have no evidence that he did. Further, if the 
representative said what Mr G has recalled, then I dont think it supports Mr Gs position. 
Rather, it shows that the residency is clearly 10 months, and anything beyond that would be 
outside the rules  or, tongue in cheek. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Mr G was aware that he could only stay in the park for 
10 months a year, and that it mustnt be his main residence. I think that anything beyond that 
may have been what he hoped for, but it wasnt the agreement he entered into. Accordingly, 
Im not persuaded, on balance, that there was a misrepresentation.
Mr G has also said that the sales representative offered to reverse the sale, and has 
provided a short tape recording. I have not taken this into account, because I cannot know 
its provenance. Instead, Ive considered all of the other submissions, and theres no 
evidence that Mr G was offered a reversal, and that Black Horse unfairly decided to block 
this (if it would even have the ability to do so). Rather, it appears that the park launched an 
investigation, but the outcome didnt support that Mr G had been misled.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman