DRN-3430446
The complaint
Mr L complains about delays caused by Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited when 
he wanted to withdraw some money from his ISA. 
What happened
In response to Mr Ls complaint, Scottish Friendly accepted their service hadnt been as 
good as theyd have liked. They noted they hadnt acted on Mr Ls instructions until three 
days after theyd received them. And they noted that when they did action the withdrawal, 
they added about two weeks to the process because they sent the proceeds by cheque 
rather than making a bank transfer.
To put things right, Scottish Friendly paid Mr L £100 compensation  for the upset caused 
and any loss of interest or other gains caused by the delay. Mr L didnt accept the money, 
feeling it didnt go far enough to put things right. He brought the matter to us. 
Our investigator look at the case, and explained why she felt the £100 already offered by 
Scottish Friendly did enough to put things right. Mr L continues to feel thats not the right 
remedy for this complaint, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see why Mr L feels hes been let down by Scottish Friendly. There 
were a couple of opportunities for them to get this withdrawal back on track, and each has 
been missed. If theyd correctly explained to Mr L initially what hed need to do to request the 
withdrawal, he could have saved about a week putting his request in. And if theyd correctly 
acted on the request hed made when it was received, another couple of weeks need not 
have passed before Mr L received his money.
I can see Mr L did receive his money eventually, although I note hes said he had to borrow 
money from family and friends until he did. I also see Scottish Friendly have recognised 
where their service fell short, taking steps that should help keep it from happening again. So 
there shouldnt be a lasting impact on Mr L here.
That tells me that the remedy needed here  if anything  is only to acknowledge the trouble 
and upset caused for Mr L. Nothing can undo that sort of emotional impact, but 
compensation can sometimes restore the goodwill between the parties involved. 
I can see Mr L made five calls in total to complete this withdrawal  according to his 
complaint form. Thats really four too many. And he had to read and respond to some letters 
and emails, which wouldnt have been needed with a better level of service. 
While theres an inconvenience there, in my opinion its only modestly more than can 
generally be expected in life. And what service issues there were here added three weeks to 
the process. So Im not seeing this as a prolonged source of stress for Mr L. 
From a compensation point of view, I cant see any factors here that justify going any higher 
than Scottish Friendly have already offered to Mr L. So Im not going to direct they do 
anything more to resolve Mr Ls complaint. And that means Im not upholding the complaint. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman