DRN-4406159
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain about the sale of a travel insurance policy by Allclear Insurance
Services Ltd.
What happened
Mr and Mrs V took out an annual travel insurance policy through Allclear. When taking out
the policy, Mr V declared his medical conditions and paid an additional premium to have
cover for these. He also asked Allclear what might happen if his health deteriorated. Allclear
advised him that he may need to pay an additional premium. Mr and Mrs V then booked a
trip.
Before Mr and Mrs V went abroad, Mr V called Allclear to let it know thered been a change
to his health. Allclear said the insurer wasnt willing to offer cover for Mr V, as the increase to
the premium exceeded its risk threshold. Allclear offered Mr V a partial refund.
Mr V complained to Allclear and said he and his wife wouldnt have booked their trip if theyd
known there was a possibility that cover could be withdrawn.
Mr V attempted to obtain cover elsewhere, but couldnt do so. Allclear then arranged a single
trip policy for Mr V with the same insurer, and covered the additional cost of this. Mrs V
remained insured on the annual policy. Mr and Mrs V were therefore able to go on their trip,
but were still unhappy that Allclear had given them the wrong information when the policy
was taken out. They said this had caused them a lot of distress and inconvenience. They
brought a complaint to this Service on that basis.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She accepted Allclear had given
Mr and Mrs V the wrong information. However, as Allclear had paid the additional cost for
Mr Vs single trip policy, she thought this was sufficient compensation for its error.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 October 2023. Heres what I said:
As our investigator has explained, it was the insurers decision not to cover Mr V after the
premium exceeded its threshold. Although Mr and Mrs V were disappointed with this, that
was a commercial decision the insurer was entitled to make.
This Service has an established approach when an insurer withdraws travel insurance cover
due to a change in health. We say the insurer should offer to cover the cost of cancelling the
trip (regardless of whether this is medically necessary). Or, if alternative cover is taken out
so the insured can still travel, the insurer should pay for any difference in premium (up to the
amount it would have paid for cancellation).
Allclear says its usual response when cover is withdrawn by the insurer is to offer an
enhanced refund (presumably on behalf of the insurer), and this is what it did for Mr V
initially. But this isnt in line with good industry practice or the approach of this Service that
Ive set out above.
Allclear did later agree to cover the additional cost of a single trip policy for Mr V, rather than
the insurer. That was up to Allclear. But this simply places Mr and Mrs V in the same position
this Service would expect where cover has been withdrawn due to there being a change in
health. It doesnt take into account any errors made by Allclear. Ive therefore considered
this.
Its not in dispute that Allclear gave Mr and Mrs V the wrong information. After Mr V declared
his medical conditions and was accepted for cover, he asked Allclear what might happen if
his health deteriorated. He was told that if he was well enough to travel then a higher
premium might need to be paid, but Allclear didnt say there was a possibility the cover could
be withdrawn.
I dont know for certain that Mr and Mrs V would have done anything different if theyd known
there was a possibility Mr Vs cover could have been withdrawn. Though even if I accepted
Mr and Mrs V wouldnt have booked their trip (or gone to a closer destination), the fact
remains that they did still go on their original trip. And they didnt have to pay for the
additional cost of alternative cover, which as Ive explained, is what this Service would
expect in these circumstances.
However, I do think Mr and Mrs V were caused unnecessary upset by the matter. This all
happened a few days before Mr and Mrs V were due to travel. They looked into cancelling
their trip, but were told this was non-refundable. So they felt they had to continue with their
trip. They then tried to obtain alternative cover for Mr V with other insurers, but couldnt do so
because of his health.
Allclear only offered Mr V a single trip policy and confirmed it would cover the additional cost
of this the day before he and his wife were due to travel, and cover could only be put in place
the day of departure. I think this would have caused Mr and Mrs V distress and
inconvenience, and I note they told Allclear they had been considering returning home
because of this.
Taking all of the above into account, I intend to require Allclear to pay Mr and Mrs V £500
compensation for the impact caused to them.
Mr and Mrs V make the point that theyd paid for an annual policy, but Mr V ended up with
single trip cover (with less benefits than the initial policy). However, that was the only cover
that was available to him, given the change to his health. As Ive said, when theres been a
change of health, Id expect an insurer to cover the cost of cancelling a booked trip, or the
cost of alternative cover allowing the insured to travel. Although Allclear did this instead of
the insurer, the outcome was still the same and Mr V was able to travel. Im satisfied this
was reasonable.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made my final 
decision. 
Mr and Mrs V responded to say that, whilst the level of compensation was lower than they 
thought appropriate, they would accept my decision.
Allclear didnt respond by the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Though as neither party has provided any further comments for me to consider, Im satisfied 
this complaint should be upheld, and for the same reasons as set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Allclear Insurance Services Ltd to 
pay Mr and Mrs V total compensation of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman