DRN-4152255
The complaint
Mr M complains that Canada Life Limited declined a claim he made under a group critical 
illness policy.
What happened
To summarise, in October 2021 Mr M joined his employers group critical illness policy. 
Unfortunately, in February 2022, he was diagnosed with Parkinsons disease. Mr M made a 
claim on his insurance policy. But in September 2022, Canada Life declined the claim on the 
grounds that his Parkinsons was considered a pre-existing condition, under the policy terms.   
Mr M complained, asking Canada Life to review its decision and providing further evidence 
from his consultant neurologist. But Canada Life maintained its position, issuing its final 
response to Mr M in November 2022.
As Mr M remained unhappy about Canada Lifes decision, he came to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked into things for him, but didnt uphold the 
complaint.  The investigator was satisfied Canada Life was entitled to decline the claim 
under the policy terms. So he didnt think Canada Life had treated Mr M unfairly. 
Mr M disagreed, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate Mr M feels very strongly about 
his complaint and I understand this will be unwelcome news for him. I am sorry about that. Ill 
explain my reasons, focusing on the points and evidence I consider material to my decision. 
So, if I dont refer to a particular point or piece of evidence, its not because I havent thought 
about it. Rather, I dont consider it changes the outcome of the complaint. My decision is 
based on the balance of probabilities, in other words, whats most likely to be the case. 
Group insurance policies arent individually underwritten. But, to manage risk, most will 
contain terms excluding claims for pre-existing conditions. Canada Life has cited a particular 
policy definition as well as section 4.1 covering exclusions. Its relied on the following terms:
4.1.1 Pre-existing conditions 
No benefit will be payable for an insured illness (or a repeat of the same insured illness) 
which existed prior to the date of inclusion: 
 
of the insured person or child in this Policy, or
in a previous group critical illness policy arranged by you or any other employer in 
connection with the members employment, or 
of the illness in the Policy, if later.' 
The term existed is defined within the policy conditions as:
an insured illness or related condition is said to have existed if it was:
first diagnosed, or 
treated, or 
known to the insured person or child 
prior to the date of inclusion (as detailed in Section 4  What is not covered) or the date 
of any increase in benefit. 
As long as a later diagnosis confirms this, we will consider an insured illness or related 
condition to have existed if the insured person or child: 
has had symptoms of, or 
has sought or been given advice or counselling on, or received treatment for, or 
has undergone or is awaiting diagnostic tests for 
the insured illness or related condition even if the condition has not been formally 
diagnosed.
The key issue in Mr Ms complaint is whether or not he had symptoms of the insured illness 
 Parkinsons - prior to the date of inclusion. 
Canada Lifes decision was based on its conclusion that the symptoms Mr M experienced in 
December 2020 were more likely than not related to his later diagnosis of Parkinsons. Mr M 
disagrees, saying that his symptoms were non-specific, with his consultant stating its not 
possible to say in retrospect whether those symptoms related to Parkinsons. 
Ive looked at the medical evidence to decide whether Canada Life acted fairly in assessing 
the information available and applying the exclusion. Ive also considered the recent opinion, 
obtained by Canada Life at our investigators request, from its Chief Medical Officer, himself 
a consultant physician and rheumatologist. 
Following his diagnosis, Mr M was referred to Dr J  a consultant neurologist and specialist 
in Parkinsons  by his local neurologist, for a second opinion. After the consultation, Dr J 
wrote to Mr M in May 2022 as follows:
In Dec 2020 you noticed that both your legs felt slightly weak. At the time you 
attributed this to the fact that you are not running as much as usual. Your wife 
commented however that she noticed that you were walking differently and that 
increasingly you have been walking more slowly.  
Your walking is now definitely significantly slower and after walking a mile or so you 
feel quite tired. 
And under the title assessment, Dr J states: I think there can be no doubt about the diagnosis of Parkinsons both in terms of the 
history, the physical examination today and the DAT scan all of which triangulate. 
Following Mr Ms claim, Canada Life wrote to Dr J for information. Dr J responded in July 
2022, enclosing his letter to Mr M of May 2022. In the covering letter to Canada Life, Dr J 
says:
As you will see, he developed rather non-specific symptoms affecting both legs in 
December 2020. His motor symptoms have gradually progressed. 
So on the basis of these documents Canada Life applied the exclusion and declined the 
claim, on the grounds that symptoms of Parkinsons had, most likely, been present before Mr 
M joined the group policy.  
To support his appeal, Mr M asked Dr J for clarification. In a letter to him, dated September 
2022, Dr J says:
It is not possible to say in retrospect whether or not these symptoms in 2020 related 
to Parkinsons. 
I should point out that it is now known the subtle and non-specific symptoms are 
present going back an average of seven years prior to a diagnosis of Parkinsons.
It seems to me on this basis unfair to exclude you on this technicality since most 
people who have a subsequent diagnosis of Parkinsons will have some subtle and 
non-specific symptoms dating back an average of seven years and on this basis they 
can presumably exclude a majority of people from a Parkinsons claim. You could 
have no way of knowing the symptoms were due to Parkinsons or indeed that they 
were due to an underlying serious cause.
Dr J understandably expresses his difficulty in stating retrospectively whether the December 
2020 symptoms did or did not relate to Parkinsons. I can appreciate Dr Js difficulty in giving 
a definitive answer to this question. But what he does confirm is that the majority of 
diagnosed patients will have subtle and non-specific symptoms dating back an average 
seven years. The symptoms of leg weakness Mr M initially reported to Dr J dated from 
approximately 14 months prior to diagnosis. 
Ive also reviewed the report from Dr W, consultant physician and rheumatologist. Mr M very 
much disputes this report and I can understand his concerns. But having read it, I can see 
that Dr Ws conclusions are based on his reading of the existing medical evidence, notably, 
that of Dr J. Dr W states:
We have to be guided by the opinion of Dr J, the Consultant Neurologist; and more 
particularly by the complaint made by Mr M himself. The history given by Mr M is that 
his symptoms began in 2020 - increasingly bothering him such that he and his wife 
had noticed by the time that he saw the Neurologist two years later, that there had 
been a significant deterioration in the very motor features he had complained of two 
years previously in 2020.
His walking was particularly affected - that being his chief feature and complaint.
Dr W goes on to conclude:
It is my opinion that the 2020 difficulties with his legs together with the walking 
symptoms do relate to the onset of Parkinsons Disease at that time. The leg weakness symptoms experienced in 2020 were a symptom of the later diagnosis of 
Parkinsons Disease.
I accept Mr M wouldnt have known he had Parkinsons when he joined the group policy and 
I can understand why he feels Canada Lifes decision is unfair. But the policy doesnt require 
a diagnosis. In Mr Ms case, the central issue is whether the symptoms he experienced were 
likely symptoms of, at the time, undiagnosed Parkinsons. 
In coming to a decision Ive placed particular weight on the letters of Dr J, who had met and 
examined Mr M to provide a second opinion. He was the expert in the field. He clearly 
includes the reported history of symptoms, albeit non-specific, in the confirmation of 
diagnosis and he later points out that the majority of diagnosed people will have prior subtle 
and no-specific symptoms. 
So having considered the evidence, I think it was reasonable for Canada Life to conclude 
that Mr Ms 2020 symptoms were, most likely, linked to his later diagnosis of Parkinsons. 
And therefore, that Mr Ms condition existed, in line with the policy terms and definitions, 
prior to him joining the group policy. So I dont think Canada Life acted unfairly in applying 
the policy exclusion for pre-existing conditions and declining his claim. It follows Im not 
going to ask Canada Life to do anything more in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman