DRN-3823283
The complaint
Mr M complains about a declined chargeback claim with Barclays Bank UK PLC Barclays). 
What happened
Mr M paid for dental treatment whilst abroad and says the payment was taken twice. Mr M 
says he went to pay for the treatment on his Barclaycard and it declined, so he paid with 
another card and later found the payment had been taken from both. So, Mr M raised a 
disputed transaction claim with Barclays.
Barclays raised the dispute with the merchant, and it responded to say it had only taken the 
one payment from the Barclaycard. Mr M evidenced it had been taken twice, but as the 
merchant said it was the Barclaycard payment that had been successful, it declined the 
claim. 
Mr M then raised a complaint with Barclays and it was upheld in part. Barclays agreed that 
its service had been poor and offered to pay Mr M £75 for the trouble and upset it had 
caused.  Barclays didnt agree that the claim had been declined incorrectly though. It said as 
the merchant responded to say only one payment had been taken, the claim was declined 
correctly. So, Mr M brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and also thought the claim had been declined 
correctly. Our investigator found the Barclays transaction was valid and as the merchant had 
confirmed only one payment had been taken, the claim had been assessed correctly. Our 
investigator did reach out to Barclays to ask if it would pay for Mr Ms phone costs and 
increase its offer of compensation for the service failings. 
Barclays agreed to pay Mr M £294.55 for call charges and a total of £150 for its service 
failings, and our investigator agreed this was fair. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
A payment out of someones account can only be treated as authorised if the payer has 
consented to it. So, the customer must have consented to a payment transaction taking 
place. So, Ive gone on to consider here whether I think Mr M consented to the payment and 
therefore whether it was authorised or not.
Mr M has said he attempted to use his Barclaycard to pay for the treatment, so there is no 
dispute he authorised the payment. 
As the Barclaycard payment was by credit card, it had two options to pursue a refund for him 
 chargeback and Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). Its usual for a 
bank to look at chargeback first. 
As Mr M raised the issue of the payment being taken twice, Barclays raised the chargeback 
request with the merchant. This is what Id expect them to do in these circumstances. As the 
merchant responded to say that only the Barclaycard payment had been taken, I dont find it 
unfair that Barclays used this information when deciding to decline the claim. 
At this point the dispute appears to be with the other payment made on the third-party banks 
card and not Barclays. Although Mr M has proof it was taken from the account, the merchant 
is claiming it was never received. So, my advice would be to now raise a dispute with the 
other provider. 
Mr M has also supplied a copy of the invoice from the dental treatment centre. This shows 
the payment being taken from a Visa card. So, this further satisfies me that the dispute 
appears to be with the other card used. 
 
Mr M responded to our investigators view to say it hadnt been investigated correctly, as our 
investigator had said in his view that the payment was firstly taken from the third-party card. 
Having looked at the disputed transaction claim form, the email Mr M sent to the disputed 
transaction team at Barclays and the email he sent to the centre where he received the 
dental treatment, Mr M does say he used the third-party card first and then the Barclaycard. 
So, I can see why the investigator put this in his view. The form and email were also 
completed three days after the transactions, so I think its most likely that this is the best 
recollection of what happened. 
But having thought about this point carefully, I dont think it changes the outcome of the 
complaint. Whether the Barclaycard or the third-party card was used first doesnt really 
matter, as the main point here is the merchant responding to say that the payment was only 
taken from the Barclaycard. So regardless of what card was used first, the dispute needs to 
be raised with the payment provider of the card that the money wasnt received from. 
Ive then gone on to think about Section 75 and whether Mr M could make a claim under the 
protection this gives. Section 75 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance 
provider, Barclaycard is jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
merchant. Theres no suggestion of a misrepresentation here, nor does the available 
evidence indicate one.
So, Ive thought about if theres been a breach of contract. As theres been no breach of 
contract here and Mr M received the goods, he paid for, Im satisfied that a claim wouldnt 
be successful if raised. 
As above, Section 75 only applies in certain circumstances. Given that Im satisfied theres 
been no breach of contract and theres no suggestion of a misrepresentation, I dont need to 
make a finding on whether all those circumstances are present here.
Barclays have paid Mr M for the cost of the phone calls whilst he was abroad and £150 for 
the service failings when raising the claim. Having considered this, I find these amounts fair 
in the circumstances. Im satisfied £150 compensates Mr M for the delay and the trouble of 
having to raise the claim twice. The £294.55 is the total cost of the calls  so I also agree with this amount.  
Putting things right
Barclays have paid Mr M the compensation and trouble and upset payment. So, it doesnt 
need to do anything else in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and agree with the payments already made 
by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman