DRN-2893726
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy about the way Admiral Financial Services Ltd handled things when he 
terminated his finance agreement.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr O was supplied with a car and entered into a personal contract purchase 
agreement with Admiral.
In September 2018 Mr O contacted admiral and asked how he could pay off the agreement 
because he wanted to part exchange the car for a different one.
Admiral advised Mr O that he would need to settle the agreement by paying the settlement 
figure before he could sell the car.
In October 2018 Mr O contacted Admiral and said hed signed an agreement for a new car. 
He asked Admiral if he could pay £17,000 off the loan. Admiral advised Mr o that the car 
would remain its property until the loan was settled in full.
Later in October 2018, Mr O contacted Admiral and tried to pay £16,000 off the loan. Admiral 
advised Mr O that because of the type of finance agreement he had, it could only accept 
£12,500. Admiral also advised Mr O that he couldnt part exchange the car until he had paid 
off the loan in full.
Mr O sold the car and paid £12,500 to Admiral. Admiral advised Mr O that he was no liable 
for the full outstanding balance of the loan immediately. Mr O didnt make any further 
monthly payments.
Admiral reported the missed payments to the credit reference agencies. Mr O complained. 
He said hed been misled about the terms of the finance agreement and was unhappy 
because hed been asked to pay the outstanding balance in full. He said when hed taken 
the car to a dealer to part exchange it , hed bee told that there was no hire purchase indictor 
on the car, which led him to believe that he had a personal loan agreement and not a hire 
purchase agreement. Mr O said he wanted to pay the loan back in affordable monthly 
repayments because he couldnt afford to pay the balance in full.
In response, Admiral said it had made the terms of the finance agreement clear.
Since then, Mr O has made a payment of £2000 towards the outstanding balance. Admiral 
has said it is happy to set up a payment pan for the remained. But it said it couldnt amend 
Mr Os credit file.
Mr O complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
Admiral had provided accurate information about the terms of the finance  agreement.
Mr O didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the notes of the calls between Mr O and Admiral. These show that when Mr O 
first contacted Admiral about his intentions to sell the car, he was told that he needed to 
settle the finance agreement first. I can see that a settlement figure was provider to Mr O on 
2 October 2018.
In a subsequent call, Admiral outlined the options for Mr O to terminate the agreement. It 
explained that if he voluntary terminated the agreement he would be alible to pay 50% of the 
total amount of credit. It also explained that if he voluntary surrendered, he would be liable to 
pay the full balance of the agreement after the sale.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Os agreement. Under the heading 
Termination and Repossession, this says that Mr O can terminate the agreement at any 
time before the final (balloon) payment is due by giving notice and paying the settlement 
figure immediately.
I appreciate that Mr O has said that he found the information given to him by Admiral 
confusing. Having looked at the call notes, I think its unlikely that the information was 
incorrect or misleading. Theres nothing to suggest that Admiral gave wrong information 
about the consequences of terminating the agreement. And Im satisfied that Admiral made 
Mr O aware of the options for termination.
Mr O has said that her thought the agreement was a personal loan because there was no 
hire purchase interest recorded against the car. Whilst I agree that Admiral should have 
noted the HPI record, I  think Mr O was aware (or ought to have been aware) that hed 
entered into a hire purchase agreement, because this is clear from the face of the 
agreement itself and from the conversations hed had with Admiral.
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied that Admiral made it clear to Mr O that if 
he sold the car, the settlement figure would become payable immediately. Because of this, 
Im unable to say that Admiral has acted unfairly by asking Mr O to pay the full balance after 
he sold the car. I can see that Mr O didnt pay the full balance, nor did he make monthly 
payments. So I cant say that Admiral made an error in reporting missed payment to the 
credit reference agencies.
I understand that Mr O has since made  a lump sum payment and that Admiral has agreed 
to accept a payment plan for the balance under the agreement. I think this is a fair resolution 
to the complaint.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman