DRN-1384536
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited declined a claim on his motor 
insurance. 
What happened
Mr W has car insurance with Advantage. 
He says children kicked a ball underneath his car damaging the rear suspension. He made a 
claim to Advantage asking them to repair the car.
Advantage commissioned an independent expert inspection which concluded that the 
damage couldn't have been caused by the ball, so they declined the claim.
Mr W complained about this outcome. Advantage admitted the expert's view was 
inconclusive and they should have carried out more investigations. They awarded Mr W 
£100 compensation for his trouble and upset.
Advantage commissioned a second independent expert inspection. This also concluded the 
damage couldn't have been caused by the ball. So Advantage confirmed they were declining 
the claim. They said the damage was likely due to wear and tear, which wasn't covered by 
the policy
Mr W wasn't happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought Advantage should commission another independent expert inspection to 
establish the cause of the damage to Mr W's car.
Advantage disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No-one disputes what the key question is here. Mr W's policy covers him if the damage to 
his car was caused by an accident - such as the ball being kicked underneath it. He's not 
covered if the cause of the damage was wear and tear.
Mr W says the company who towed his car back to his home address after the incident in 
question reported that the ball had caused the damage. I think this is largely irrelevant. That 
company didn't conduct an inspection. They were simply there to take Mr W's car back to his 
home address. Their invoice reflects what Mr W told them about the incident.
The two independent inspections broadly came to the same conclusions. In summary, they said: the ball couldn't have caused the damage; the damage may have 
been due to wear and tear; the car was in a poor state for its age; and the true cause of the 
damage could only be identified by a further inspection in a workshop where the underside 
of the car could be properly inspected.
Advantage declined the claim on the basis of an exclusion in the policy which says damage 
isn't covered if it's caused by wear and tear.
Both expert reports say the damage may have been due to wear and tear. And both say the 
car was in a poor condition for its age. But both also say they can't be sure about the true 
cause of the damage without a more detailed inspection.
Our view is that when a customer makes a claim to an insurer, it's for the customer to 
demonstrate they've suffered a loss which is covered under the policy. But if the insurer 
declines a claim on the basis of an exclusion, it's for them to prove that the exclusion 
applies.
In this case, Advantage are saying an exclusion applies. So the onus is on them to 
demonstrate that's the case. But they have two independent reports which say the cause of 
the damage can't be established without further inspection.
Putting things right
So, I don't think Advantage have shown so far that the exclusion they're relying on does in 
fact apply. And I agree with our investigator that they should commission a further 
independent inspection to establish the true cause of the damage.
They also need to make sure this inspection is carried out in such a way that the underside 
of the car can be examined. 
Once this is done, they should re-consider Mr W's claim in light of the independent report's 
findings.
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr W's complaint.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must commission a further independent expert 
report to establish the cause of the damage to Mr W's car. And they must re-consider 
his claim in light of the findings. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman