DRN-3476848
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) were 
unhelpful by not allowing him to make payments to his account.
What happened
Due to pandemic restrictions, Mr S was living overseas. Mr S previously had problems with 
his direct debit on his Tesco credit card, so he attempted to make a card payment to help 
reduce his outstanding balance. Mr S says that he made a payment to his Tesco credit card 
on 28 June 2021 and he thought this would take care of the matter. 
Mr S says he found out this was not the case in late August when he checked his bank 
account and saw that his payment had bounced back. Mr S says he attempted to make a 
card payment to his Tesco account using the Tesco application (app) but his card payment 
was refused and a message was displayed in the app, explaining that the type of card he 
was trying to pay with was not supported in the app. Mr S made a complaint to Tesco. He 
also said as he was overseas due to pandemic restrictions, then Tesco should have a live 
chat facility which could have helped him resolve this matter sooner.
Tesco did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. They said that if Mr S was making a (faster) payment 
to them, then he would need to include his 16 digit Tesco credit card number as the 
reference. As Mr S only included the last four digits of his account number, then this is why 
his June payment did not credit his account. 
Tesco said they had not seen an attempt from Mr S to make a credit card payment using 
their online services, as their systems would have shown whether an attempt was declined 
and a reference number would have been provided, but as the system displayed a card not 
supported message, then Tesco suggested that Mr S speaks to his current account provider 
to find out why. Tesco said that interest and charges had been charged in line with the terms 
of his credit agreement. Tesco said that they didnt have a live chat facility, but they provided 
an international telephone number for him if he wanted to speak to one of their colleagues 
for support. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He 
said that Tesco had not made any errors which led to Mr Ss account leading to arrears. Mr 
S asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that Tesco had caused him 
distress, inconvenience, and financial loss due to their incompetence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
I want to be clear to Mr S that I cant instruct Tesco to amend their processes for payments 
or to include a live chat facility, as these are commercial decisions for Tesco, with what 
systems they choose to use and how they operate them in order to allow their customers to 
make repayments to their account and to interact with them. Only the regulator can make 
Tesco change the way they act with regards to these two issues.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about making repayments to his credit card. Ultimately, it 
is his responsibility to ensure that a payment reaches his account. Mr S has mentioned what 
happened with his June 2021 payment bouncing back to his account. But here, he only 
included the last four digits of his credit card number in the reference. Tesco make it clear on 
the credit card statements that if he is making a faster payment then he should use (his) 16-
digit Tesco Credit Card number as (his) payment reference without any dashes or spaces.
Ive seen from Tescos system notes that they send Mr S an email each month to let him 
know his statement is available. So it would be Mr Ss responsibility to check his statements 
to ensure that any payments had been successfully made. The statements also show Mr S 
several other ways he could try and make a payment. So I cant hold Tesco responsible if Mr 
S did not correctly follow the instructions on his credit card statement to make a faster 
payment. 
Ive considered that Mr S has been living overseas due to pandemic restrictions. But Im not 
persuaded that this would have prevented him from checking the app while he was abroad 
to see his statements. If this would have been a problem, I would have expected Mr S to 
contact Tesco to explain the circumstances and to check that his payments had been 
received by them. As Mr S has said he tried to make payments on the app while he was 
overseas, then Im persuaded he would have had his normal access to the app while he was 
overseas.
Ive also considered what Mr S has sent us regarding the Tesco app showing the card is not 
supported. As Tesco has mentioned, this could be something to do with the card he was 
trying to use, so he would need to contact his own bank to see why they could not be 
supported with the Tesco app. But Im not persuaded that this would make a difference to 
what did happen. I say this as Mr S would be aware that the payment could not go through 
using the details he had used based on the error message which was displayed. So he 
should not have been under any impression that a card payment had been successful if the 
message in the app told him otherwise. He would then be free to make a payment via a 
different method.
Tesco gave Mr S several ways he could make a payment to his account as shown on his 
monthly statements. I can see that Mr S did make a successful payment on 24 September 
2021 via a faster payment. As he used his 16 digit card number along with the sort code and 
account number of the Tesco account, this is why this payment was successful. Mr S was 
also able to make a faster payment in June 2021. While this ultimately bounced back due to 
the incorrect reference, it shows that Mr S was able to make faster payments here.
Ive looked at Mr Ss terms and conditions of the account. They explain the consequences of 
missing payments and clearly state that missed payments will result in additional interest 
and fees. So Im satisfied that Tescos made it clear to Mr S what would happen if they didnt 
receive his payment  which they didnt receive to his account, as Mr S did not make the 
payment in line with the instructions of his statements.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about Tesco not assisting him in response to his 
complaint. But I cant agree with Mr S here. I say this because they gave him an international 
telephone number which he could ring them while he was overseas to discuss any concerns 
he has, so I do think he had the option of assistance here. I cant ask Tesco to refund any charges or interest they have charged him as Tesco have charged these in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. 
Tesco explained they couldnt see a payment he had made online which had declined as 
their system would provide a reference number for declined payments. Tescos notes which 
would show his payments attempted online doesnt show any declined payments either. The 
screenshots which Mr S has sent us are from his card being rejected, which is different from 
his card declining (the card was rejected due to the account not supporting the payment 
type). This would be why Tesco wouldnt have been aware of rejected payments as opposed 
to declined payments (and they advised that Mr S may wish to speak to his bank to find out 
why this was). While one screenshot Mr S sent us does show a reference  this is his credit 
card number and not a decline reference generated from a payment being declined by his 
bank  or Tesco.
Tesco also offered support to Mr S in their response letter if he was having affordability 
issues with his repayments or for customers who had been impacted due to the pandemic. 
Tesco also signposted to Mr S that they had also told him ways to pay on a previous 
complaint he made with them and how to contact their customer assist team to make a 
payment. So I do think theyve tried to assist him, even if this has not resulted in the outcome 
that Mr S wanted.
In summary, I cant hold Tesco responsible for any distress, inconvenience or financial loss 
Mr S has suffered, as he did not make his required payment to his account or follow the 
correct instructions to do so. Although I know Mr S will be disappointed, it follows I dont 
require Tesco to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman