DRN-3976921
The complaint
Mr H complains that Starling Bank Limited has acted unreasonably in how it has handled its 
requests for information from him.
What happened
Mr H has held an account with Starling since 2017. He says that Starling began to issue 
pop-ups in his banking app asking him for his email address. Mr H was unwilling to provide 
this information unless he was asked for it by a named member of staff who was able to 
explain why Starling did not already have his email address, so he dismissed these pop-ups 
each time they appeared without giving Starling the information it had asked for.
In early 2022 Starling began asking for further information in these pop-ups, specifically it 
asked Mr H for information about his income. Mr H was again unwilling to provide this 
information, and so continued to dismiss the pop-ups without answering the questions put to 
him. Mr Hs mobile access was then blocked because he was unable to dismiss the pop-up 
any further. He wanted an explanation as to why this information was required so he raised a 
complaint with Starling.
Starling explained that it asked these questions as part of its regulatory obligations, and that 
if Mr H did not provide the information requested then he would be unable to continue using 
his account. Mr H was very unhappy with Starlings response, he did not feel it was an 
adequate explanation as to why Starling felt he had to provide information about his income, 
and he did not feel any explanation had been given regarding why Starling did not already 
have his email address. So he referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, but they did not feel Starling had 
treated Mr H unfairly. Mr H remained unhappy, so his complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I acknowledge Mr H has provided a very detailed response to our Investigators 
findings, and that he has said he expects his comments to be addressed in a similar level of 
detail. But I want to make it clear that the role of the Ombudsman Service is to provide an 
informal complaint resolution service, and it is for us to determine what level of detail is 
necessary in any findings we issue. So I will not be providing a line-by-line response to 
Mr Hs concerns. I mean no disrespect by this, but I do not consider such a detailed 
response is necessary to explain my findings in this complaint.
There are three main issues here that Mr Hs concerns stem from  that Starling asked for 
Mr Hs email address, that Starling asked for Mr Hs income, and that Starling blocked 
Mr Hs access to his account when he did not answer the questions hed been asked. Ill 
address each point in turn.
Mr H says that when he was asked for his email address he wanted an explanation as to 
why Starling did not already have it recorded. He feels this is a significant data failing. Ive 
seen no evidence that Starling did not already have Mr Hs email address, and its my 
understanding that Starling will occasionally ask customers to reconfirm their contact details 
to ensure they are up to date. It seems this is what has happened here as Starling has said it 
did have Mr Hs email address on file. And, in any case, even if Starling hadnt recorded 
Mr Hs email, Ive not seen anything to show that this impacted Mr H in any way, hed been 
using his account with no problems relating to his email address for several years.
When Starling then went on to ask for Mr Hs income details, I can understand why he 
questioned the necessity of sharing this information. As Starling noted, if hed not been 
asked this kind of question by a bank before it would understandably have been a surprising 
question. But when Mr H questioned why hed been asked for this information, I consider 
that Starling provided a reasonable explanation. It explained that as part of its obligations 
under Customer Due Diligence it was obliged to ask these types of questions. Starling also 
pointed Mr H towards the relevant regulations  The Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing 
and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017. Lastly, it explained that 
the information it was requesting would not be used for any marketing purposes, as this was 
one of the concerns Mr H had raised. 
Mr H does not consider that Starling provided enough explanation here, he wants to be 
pointed to the specific law or regulation which says that Starling must ask for this specific 
piece of information  his income. He also does not believe that Starling will not use the 
information it requests for marketing purposes.
Under the regulations firms are required to apply Customer Due Diligence measures using 
a risk-based approach. Starling will have asked questions to satisfy the requirements under 
this legislation when Mr H opened his account, although they may not have been the same 
questions as it has asked now. But customer due diligence measures include a requirement 
for regular monitoring of any ongoing business relationship with existing customers. The 
requirements under those regulations are relatively broad, and give firms scope to assess 
what checks they consider it necessary to carry out. I appreciate that Mr H feels Starling 
could therefore have decided it didnt need the information about his income when he 
refused to supply it  as he says another bank he has an account with has done  but I dont 
consider that Starling was wrong to ask for this information or to require Mr H to answer its 
questions if he wished to continue the banking relationship. 
And I also note that the fact Starling will periodically ask for such information is set out in the 
terms and conditions of the account, which Mr H agreed to when it was opened. Those 
terms and conditions also note that Starling may need to close an account if requested 
information is not provided, and Starling also made it clear to Mr H when it responded to his 
complaint that he may not be able to continue using his account if he did not provide the 
information requested.
So, overall, I do not consider that Starling has made any error here. It has asked for 
information that it is entitled to request, has explained why it has asked for that information 
when requested, and made it clear that there would be an impact on Mr Hs ability to use his 
account if he did not supply the requested information. I appreciate that Mr H is not happy 
with Starlings explanation, but that does not mean it has done anything wrong. I understand that Mr H would like us to refer Starlings actions to the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). And if we identify trends in the complaints we see then we may flag those 
with the FCA, but we wouldnt generally pass on details of an individual complaint such as 
Mr Hs. And, in any case, while I know this will be disappointing for Mr H, Im satisfied his 
complaint has been handled appropriately by Starling and that it has not treated him unfairly.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman