DRN-4028623
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Halifax didnt respond to all of the complaints he logged online. He 
also complains that the bank cant set it so he doesnt receive text messages about future 
complaints, as well as some letters that arrived late.
What happened
Mr W had issues with transferring money from his accounts and downgrading them. Halifax 
had said during phone calls it wouldnt log a separate complaint about the same issue for 
each of his accounts, it would deal with matters under one reference. But Mr W didnt agree 
with that approach  and told the bank he wanted multiple complaints logged, as our service 
would apply a charge for each one referred. 
Subsequently Mr W logged a number of complaints online. Halifax didnt provide separate 
responses, as it felt it had already resolved the issues hed raised.  It also said the rules 
didnt require it to log a complaint per account held, and instead opted pragmatically to deal 
with a single issue (which could affect multiple accounts) in one response. 
There was a particular complaint which Mr W had called the bank about because he couldnt 
see it logged on the system. Halifax said it was unfortunate Mr W had taken time to call in, 
but argued that he hadnt allowed enough time for it to be added (he phoned around 30 
minutes after submitting the complaint online). The form was uploaded shortly after, the 
same day, and combined with the reference set up during the call. 
Mr W also wasnt happy that he received multiple text messages about the complaints hed 
logged, and asked Halifax to remove that function for future complaints. But the bank said it 
wouldnt be able to do that without removing Mr Ws number entirely from its system. Instead 
he would need to ask for it to be removed from any future individual complaint references 
when setting them up. 
Mr W later complained that letters about some complaints had arrived long after the dates on 
them. Halifax responded to say it had sent them second class whenever they were dated, 
and didnt feel it could fairy be held responsible for any delays with the postal service. 
The above issues were referred to us for review, and an investigator here didnt think Halifax 
had acted unreasonably. The investigator noted that complaint handling in isolation wasnt 
an activity our service could investigate  but he didnt think the processes had impacted the 
banks resolution of the underlying issues. Mr W didnt agree, and so the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision on the matters.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator was correct when he said our service doesnt have the power to review 
complaints about a banks complaint handling in isolation  it isnt an activity thats 
separately covered under our jurisdiction. The regulator is responsible for ensuring firms 
follow the complaint handling rules it has set (in the Dispute Resolution: Complaints part of 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook  or DISP for short). So Im not going to 
comment on whether, generally speaking, Halifaxs processes and approach to complaints 
handling is compliant or fit for purpose.
I can, however, comment on Halifaxs actions as part of deciding whether theyve had any 
knock on impact on resolving the underlying issues that are covered by our services 
jurisdiction. The complaint about receiving text messages involves complaint handling, but it 
also concerns how Mr Ws personal data (his number) was stored in relation to his account 
generally  which I can comment on. I can also consider whether Halifax caused letters to be 
delayed, even though they were complaint responses, and whether that impacted the 
resolution of any problems on the accounts.
There appears to have been an instance where Mr W called before a complaint hed 
submitted was showing on the system. Halifax has shown us that he called not long after 
registering the complaint online. It also appears to have been a generalised complaint about 
the banks system, and that a lot of concerns hes logged havent been responded to. 
Halifaxs final response set out in detail the complaints it had received, and how it felt it had 
addressed all the issues raised (albeit not necessarily separately, as Mr W might have 
wanted). I havent had anything from Mr W which contradicts that position  other than 
generalised assertions.
That means I havent seen any evidence there were issues on the accounts that werent 
addressed. Ive also not seen anything to suggest Halifaxs handling of the complaints had a 
detrimental impact on the underlying things he was unhappy about. But even if it had, Id 
have to factor in the volume of complaints that were logged, seemingly about the same 
issues. That would have made it more difficult for Halifax to discern what problems needed 
to be addressed. Our service can also dismiss complaints, without consideration of the 
merits, that are deemed to be frivolous and vexatious  and those raised solely for the 
purpose of incurring a case fee for the firm would likely fall under that category.
I acknowledge that Mr W likely received a lot of text messages about his complaints, given 
the number he had logged. Unfortunately, the options for preventing text messages being 
sent on future complaints are limited, as the system automatically pulls through the contact 
details to the complaint reference. Halifax has said Mr W can request his number is removed 
from individual complaints at the time he raises them  and I dont consider that to be an 
onerous workaround in the circumstances.   
From the information Ive seen, Im also satisfied Halifax likely sent its letters on the dates 
they were generated. Its unfortunate there was a delay in Mr W receiving some of Halifaxs 
correspondence  but I havent been persuaded the bank is at fault for that. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 January 2024.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman