DRN-3298323
The complaint
Ms M complains the advice The Financial Research Partnership LLP gave her when she 
took out a mortgage in 2018 was unsuitable and she was unhappy with the service they 
provided.
What happened
In May 2017 Ms M approached The Financial Research Partnership LLP (FRP) for advice 
about a mortgage. An adviser at FRP (adviser 1) discussed her requirements and got a 
decision in principle (DIP) for Ms M from a proposed lender in January 2018.
Ms M contacted FRP again in February 2018 when shed found a property to buy. Adviser 1 
had left FRP, but a second adviser (adviser 2) confirmed the DIP remained valid and the 
five-year fixed interest rate product Ms M had been interested in was still available.
In mid-February 2018 FRP sent Ms M a key facts illustration (KFI) setting out information 
about the mortgage they were recommending and submitted a full mortgage application to 
the proposed lender on Ms Ms behalf. The lender issued a mortgage offer in April 2018.   
Ms M accepted the offer and the mortgage completed.
Ms M wanted to sell the property during the five-year fixed interest rate period as some 
issues with the property arose. She felt FRP hadnt explained to her properly how the 
mortgage worked and that she would incur an early repayment charge (ERC), or such a 
large one, if she ended her mortgage early. Ms M went ahead with the sale and paid an ERC 
of around £4,400, which she had to finance through a loan. Ms M also had concerns about 
the level of service FRP had provided.
FRP didnt respond to Ms Ms complaint within the relevant time limits so the Financial 
Ombudsman looked into her complaint. Our investigator thought FRP had done enough to 
explain how the mortgage and ERC worked and didnt think the mortgage FRP had 
recommended was unsuitable. She also thought FRP had provided a satisfactory service. 
Since Ms M wasnt happy with our investigators view, her complaints been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear Ms M had problems with the property she bought. I can understand that 
will have caused her some distress and inconvenience. And I acknowledge shes had some 
financial issues as a result of taking a loan to pay the ERC when she redeemed the 
mortgage early. 
I cant hold FRP responsible for any problems Ms M had in relation to the property she 
bought. In looking at her complaint about FRP I need to consider whether, bearing all the 
circumstances in mind, they recommended a mortgage that was appropriate for Ms M based 
on her needs and circumstances.
Ms M initially discussed her mortgage requirements with adviser 1 at FRP. They completed 
a fact find in May 2017. It recorded, amongst other things, that she needed to borrow around 
95% of the property value; she had a cautious approach to borrowing which pointed to her 
wanting a repayment mortgage so shed cleared the loan by the end of the term; she was 
concerned about the possibility of future interest rate movements and wanted to fix the rate 
of interest shed be paying for up to five years. It said too that Ms M wanted the option to 
repay the loan early and that she wouldnt accept an ERC. Ms Ms told us she wanted no or 
a low ERC. Its not unusual for fixed interest rate products to come with an ERC. And, 
although the fact find and what Ms Ms told us about the ERC contradict each other to an 
extent, based on what Ms M has said, I think she understood she might have to pay an ERC 
to get the deal she wanted. 
FRP sent Ms M a KFI in February 2018 which set out details of the proposed mortgage and 
they submitted a formal mortgage application to the lender on Ms Ms behalf. Ms M felt FRP 
should have arranged another meeting to discuss things with her. FRPs letter to Ms M 
summarising their recommendations noted Ms M couldnt attend an appointment at the time, 
and it was difficult for her to speak over the phone while she was at work, although FRP say 
they did speak to Ms M about the KFI. Whether or not a conversation took place, I think FRP 
did enough in their written communications with Ms M to explain how the proposed mortgage 
would work.
FRPs letter summarising their recommendations explained how theyd chosen the mortgage 
and interest rate product they were recommending to Ms M based, amongst other things, on 
her budget and the deposit she had available. The letter said Ms M wanted to know how 
much she would be paying each month and that fixing the rate over five years was the most 
cost-effective way of doing that. Attached to the letter was an appendix explaining FRPs 
recommendations were based on their understanding of Ms Ms current financial position 
and objectives and that she should contact them to discuss things if she disagreed with what 
theyd said. She also had the option of requesting a copy of the information adviser 1 had 
gathered to check it remained accurate.
The KFI explained, amongst other things, the mortgage would be on repayment terms; its 
amount; its term; and the interest rate that would apply for the first five years. It said an ERC 
was payable and set out how it would be calculated if the mortgage was repaid during each 
of the five years of the fixed interest rate period. Ms M has said she thought the ERC would 
reduce each month. But the KFI showed how the ERC reduced each year from 5% initially to 
1% in the final year and gave figures to illustrate how much it might be in real terms each 
year. 
Im satisfied the information in the letter and KFI was clear, fair and not misleading as Id 
expect it to be. I think Ms M ought to have understood the recommendations FRP were 
making, that an ERC would be payable if she redeemed the mortgage during the five-year 
fixed interest rate period and how the ERC would operate. If anything was unclear to Ms M, 
she had the opportunity to discuss things with FRP before she accepted the mortgage offer. 
I can see from the emails she exchanged with FRP that Ms M confirmed she was happy to 
go ahead based on the KFI. I think it was reasonable for FRP to think shed read and 
understood the information theyd provided.
The mortgage offer issued by the lender set out similar information to the KFI including an 
explanation about how the ERC would work. Again, I think the information was clear. So, I 
think Ms M had the information she needed about the terms of her mortgage and the ERC 
before she accepted the offer and tied herself in to the mortgage.Overall, I think the mortgage recommendation FRP made met Ms Ms requirements for her 
mortgage. Although the ERC was higher than she might have wanted, the information Ms M 
received from FRP explained clearly what the ERC was and how it operated. Bearing 
everything in mind, I dont think FRP recommended a mortgage that was unsuitable for     
Ms M. 
Ive considered the service FRP provided. From what Ive seen, FRP were in regular contact 
with Ms M as her application progressed. There was a delay in the survey being carried out 
but FRP took steps to arrange for Ms Ms application to be expedited once the survey had 
been carried out. The mortgage offer was initially sent to Ms Ms previous solicitors. But FRP 
resolved this relatively quickly. Whilst Ms Ms unhappy they hadnt checked who her 
solicitors were, and they seem to have relied on the information shed given them initially, 
she hadnt let them know shed gone to a different firm. So, whilst I acknowledge Ms M was 
under pressure due to her personal circumstances at the time and keen to move, I dont 
think its fair to ask FRP to compensate Ms M for the impact of the relatively short delay this 
issue caused. Overall, I think FRP provided Ms M with a reasonable service.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Ms M will be disappointed, I dont uphold her 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman