DRN-2674207
The complaint
Mr K complained about TSB Bank Plcs online banking service.
What happened
Mr K complained to TSB on a number of occasions about the service provided. He reported 
various problems with his internet banking service and in particular logging on and accessing 
account information. In addition, he was dis-satisfied with some of the facilities offered and 
the text alert service for payments set up on his account. He said he didnt receive text alerts 
when he ought to have done and this meant some payments were missed. Mr K thought this 
appeared to have impacted his credit score. He thought these problems had been ongoing.
In January 2020 TSB wrote to Mr K and accepted a number of things hadnt been 
satisfactory, including some disruption to the service hed received following a system 
update. They offered Mr K £100 to reflect the problems hed encountered. TSB asked Mr K 
to identify any late payment charges, losses, interest or any other expenses or costs. 
Mr K went on to complain about ongoing problems and other matters not being addressed. 
TSB replied on several occasions and accepted some of what was said and rejected other 
aspects. During this time, they also provided suggestion on how some issues might be 
remedied. By May 2020 TSB had paid Mr K a total of £175 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused (this included the £100 originally offered in January 2020). 
Mr K didnt think this was enough and came to this service. TSB accept Mr K experienced 
some problems but say their records dont support all the complaints made by Mr K. And 
although they dont have records available in relation to his complaints about missed text 
message alerts, they dont accept this means they ought to be responsible for whats said 
about missed payments. In addition, they highlight the advice they offered to Mr K.
Mr K thinks his ongoing problems havent been acknowledged and he doesnt think TSBs 
offers were sufficient.
An investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint. She acknowledged Mr K had been frustrated, 
but she thought TSB had done enough. She thought TSB had tried to assist Mr K and 
thought the suggestions had been reasonable.
Mr K provided some information on his credit report history. He told us this showed his rating 
dropped during the time TSBs online service experienced problems. Mr K also thought the 
investigator had drawn the wrong conclusion from the screen shots hed sent in. 
Mr K thought it wasnt fair for the investigator to say there wasnt enough to decide if TSB did 
anything wrong in relation to his complaint about missing text messages. Mr K stressed TSB 
hadnt denied there were missing text messages when the records had still been available, 
so he thought it was fairer for the investigator to accept there had been missed messages. 
Mr K didnt think the steps taken by TSB were enough and he felt his experience had been 
widespread. 
The investigator replied to the matters raised but she didnt change her thinking. Mr K 
provided further submissions and his case was referred to an ombudsman. I asked for some 
information. In summary Mr K says:
He feels it was unfair to expect he should prove his complaints or that he could be in 
a position to do so. He thinks screenshots of error messages ought to be enough.
He wasnt provided with tailored personal advice or assistance. TSB gave generic 
templated advice. Mr K tried the suggestions, but they hadnt worked.
Mr K cant remember what the missed texts were about. But he has repeated TSB 
havent denied there were missed alerts. He also didnt think theyd denied there 
were missed payments. Mr K says if hed been asked for this information at the time, 
he thinks he could have provided it.
His credit history is sufficient to show an unexplained drop in his credit score and 
because this was contemporaneous to the time of TSBs technical problems, he 
thinks its a fair assumption there is a link and this ought to be enough to support his 
concerns. He doesnt know if there was a causal link between TSBs issues and any 
of his own issues. 
Mr K was asked about any occasions he thought changes to his credit score caused any 
loss or problems. He told us he did experience a problem and was told this was due to a 
failed credit check. But he cant say this was due to errors on the part of TSB. Mr K thinks its 
important to have a good credit rating and he says TSB ought to take responsibility for a 
system with the potential to impact credit scores and he doesnt think it was adequately 
tested before being rolled out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. Mr K experienced an unsatisfactory and 
inconsistent service with his banking and at least some of these were linked to the TSB 
system changes. This caused Mr K various difficulties and frustrations, and in particular 
when accessing his account. Although there might be some disagreement between Mr K 
and TSB on the cause of some of the difficulties Mr K experienced, there is consensus that 
he received an unsatisfactory service over an extended period. 
On balance I think TSB have already done enough to address what went wrong here. TSB 
have apologized, and I think they have accepted and apologized for the main issues 
complained about. In going on to look at whether TSB have done enough to address the 
problems Mr K complained of, Ive needed to consider the impact on him.
When TSB initially apologized in January 2020, they made an offer and payment to reflect 
the failures in the service provided. TSB failed to deal with everything properly at this time, 
including a further payment in respect of Mr Ks expenses and costs. So its right they made 
a further payment to reflect further failures. Mr K undoubtedly felt frustration and 
inconvenience over the persistent problems he experienced. But it isnt our role to punish a 
business and any wider concerns would be a matter for the regulator. I think the overall 
payment of £175 made thus far to Mr K is sufficient.
Ive seen what Mr K says about missed text alerts leading to missed payments. I agree TSB 
havent disputed this might have happened. But there is insufficient evidence to enable me to conclude what it involved if it happened and if this is something that caused Mr K any 
identifiable consequential loss.
In January 2020 when responding to Mr Ks complaint, TSB asked for information in relation 
to any losses and costs, including in relation to missed payments. It doesnt appear Mr K 
provided anything at this time or at any time where a payment was late when its said a text 
alert ought to have been sent. Although I appreciate Mr K might not remember details of 
missed payments given the passage of time, Id think it reasonable for him to have an idea if 
this had happened and what payments were involved in general terms. Even if this were 
wrong, its reasonable to expect any examples of this to have been identified when 
requested in January 2020. In any event Im not persuaded, in the absence of any further 
information, that failures by Mr K to pay a bill because a reminder text wasnt sent would 
necessarily be the responsibility of TSB here, based on what Ive seen. 
So even if Mr K may not have received text alerts that hed set up, there is insufficient 
information to identify specific occasions where this happened or identify specific loss. I dont 
think theres enough to conclude a causal link between problems experienced by Mr K in the 
provision of his banking services and changes to Mr Ks credit score. Such scores can 
change for a number of reasons and I dont think theres enough or its reasonable to 
assume on what Ive seen that the changes can be attributed in the way Mr K thinks. Ive 
seen Mr K has told us he experienced some difficulty in obtaining credit on one occasion, but 
I dont think thats enough to fairly conclude inadequate service from TSB is linked to a 
detrimental change in his credit score. 
For completeness, although I accept some of the advice TSB provided in respect of 
addressing ongoing technical problems might have been more generic, that doesnt mean it 
might not have been of assistance to Mr K. Its clear enough TSB reviewed Mr Ks personal 
account use when responding to his complaints and problems.
Ive also seen Mr K was unhappy with the facilities available on his account. It is for TSB to 
decide what facilities are made available in general terms on an account. Any wider 
concerns, as with concerns about problems being more widespread arent a matter for this 
service. Our role is to consider Mr Ks individual complaint and the impact of any failures and 
its not our role to punish a business. I accept Mr K has been inconvenienced and frustrated 
by the failures here. I understand TSB have already paid Mr K the £175 and I think that was 
sufficient here.
My final decision
So for the reasons given I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint against TSB Bank Plc. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my 
decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman