DRN-1882743
The complaint
Al Rayan Bank PLC (Al Rayan) incorrectly reported to HMRC that Mr Ms 2017/18 ISA was 
liable to tax on the interest. Mr M says Al Rayan took several months to confirm it had 
resolved the matter with HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) and didnt confirm whether his 
ISA for 2018/19 was affected.
What happened
Al Rayan made an error in reporting Mr Ms Fixed Term ISA to HMRC for the tax year 
2017/18. Tax was paid on the interest he had earned. Mr M confirms that he received an 
email from Al Rayan about this matter on 6 March 2019.
Mr M called Al Rayan on 5 April 2019 and asked whether the issue had been resolved with 
HMRC. Al Rayan told him that the matter had been resolved with HMRC, but Mr M explained 
that HMRC had told him it didnt know of the matter. Mr M asked Al Rayan to provide some 
evidence it had told HMRC about the matter, as it would give him some peace of mind. Al 
Rayan said it would arrange for someone to call Mr M back to update him. Mr M called Al 
Ryan several times between 5 April 2019 and 17 April 2019, as he hadnt been contacted by 
Al Rayan. And on 17 April 2019, Al Rayan recorded Mr Ms concerns as a complaint.
Al Rayan wrote to Mr M on 17 April 2019 to tell him it had contacted HMRC about the error 
and that HMRC had confirmed it would correct Mr Ms tax code and tax calculations so that 
he was not adversely impacted. The letter said Mr M would be contacted directly by HMRC, 
but if he didnt receive any correspondence from HMRC, then he hadnt been affected.
Al Rayan provided a final response to the complaint on 2 May 2019. The final response said 
that Al Rayan had been told by HMRC that it would correct all individuals tax codes and tax 
calculations, and that Mr M should be assured HMRC will reimburse him for any overpaid 
tax. Al Rayan confirmed Mr M didnt need to take any further action, and that it was working 
closely with HMRC to ensure the error didnt happen in the future. Al Rayan apologised for 
the distress and inconvenience it may have caused Mr M, and it offered Mr M £50 to reflect 
this.
Al Rayan has confirmed Mr M accepted the £50 it offered.
Mr M says that Al Rayan didnt provide him with any evidence it had reported the matter to 
HMRC, he was getting conflicting information from HMRC when he contacted it, and he was 
worried about whether the interest on his 2018/19 ISA would be affected.
Al Rayan received an email from HMRC on 2 August 2019 that confirmed the matter had 
been resolved.
After Mr M chased Al Rayan for an update on 4 October 2019, Al Rayan wrote to him to 
confirm that HMRC emailed it on 2 August 2019 to confirm that matter had been resolved.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided and said that although Al Rayan took 
reasonable action to make HMRC aware of the error it made, it didnt provide Mr M with 
evidence it had notified HMRC of the error, nor did it provide evidence HMRC had confirmed 
the matter had been resolved for four months after HMRC had notified it. The investigator 
said Al Rayan shouldve confirmed to Mr M that his 2019/19 ISA interest hadnt been 
affected. The investigator thought that Al Rayan should pay Mr M a further £100 to reflect 
the additional distress and inconvenience this caused Mr M.
Al Rayan doesnt accept the views of the investigator and has requested a final decision 
from an ombudsman. It says that Mr M accepted a payment of £50 in May 2019 in full and 
final settlement of his complaints. Al Rayan believes the views of the investigator are unfair 
and not consistent with other cases of a similar nature.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied Al Rayan identified it had incorrectly reported Mr Ms Fixed Term ISA, and it 
took reasonable steps to make Mr M aware. I accept the email Al Rayan sent Mr M on 6 
March 2019 explained what had happened, and that HMRC would be in contact with Mr M to 
correct the matter through his tax code.
However, one month later, Mr M contacted Al Rayan to express his concerns that HMRC 
had told him it didnt know anything about the matter. Although Al Rayan said someone 
would call Mr M back to discuss the matter, no one did. This meant Mr M made several more 
calls to Al Rayan to tell it, as far as HMRC and he was concerned, the matter wasnt 
resolved. I have listened to the call recordings Al Rayan provided, and I am satisfied Mr M 
asked it to provide some evidence HMRC had been informed, as he was getting conflicting 
information from HMRC. And he wanted to put his mind at rest. Mr M also requested that Al 
Rayan confirm that the problem had not reoccurred for his 2018/19 ISA interest.
I consider that these were reasonable requests from Mr M. He hadnt been able to receive 
confirmation from HMRC that it knew about the matter, or that the matter had been put right. 
Mr M also had reasonable concerns that, having made an error the previous year, Al Rayan 
may have made the same error. I would have expected Al Rayan to address these two 
issues in its response to Mr M.
Al Rayan then sent a further letter to Mr M on 17 April 2019. This letter provided no specific 
reference to the questions Mr M asked. The letter did tell Mr M that he didnt have to take 
any action as he would be contacted directly by HMRC. However, Mr M had already 
explained to Al Rayan several times that HMRC had told him it knew nothing about the 
matter.
Al Rayan then sent its final response letter on 2 May 2019. This letter said HMRC has 
confirmed that it will correct all affected individuals tax codes and calculationsPlease be 
assured you will be fully reimbursed by HMRC for any over payment of tax. Although this 
letter offered Mr M £50 for distress and inconvenience suffered, it didnt provide any comfort 
to Mr M that Al Rayan had specifically notified HMRC of the issue. This is particularly 
relevant as Mr M had asked for evidence Al Rayan had informed HMRC, because he 
continued to be told by HMRC that it wasnt aware of the issue.
Al Rayan has provided a copy of an email it received from HMRC, dated 2 August 2019. 
This email made it clear that HMRC had fixed the error in respect of the tax paid in error on 
Mr Ms ISA account for 2017/18. 
I can infer that Mr M contacted Al Rayan again about the matter on 4 October 2019, as it 
referred to this contact in its next letter to Mr M dated 11 October 2019. This response referred to the email Al Rayan received from HMRC, dated 2 August 2019, and confirmed 
HMRC had fixed the issue for 2017/18.
I can understand that Al Rayan believes it dealt with Mr Ms complaint in May 2019, and that 
he accepted £50 in full and final settlement. However, Mr M was getting conflicting 
information from HMRC that it hadnt heard from Al Rayan about the error concerning the tax 
paid on his ISA. On the one-hand Al Rayan was saying it had resolved the matter with 
HMRC, but on the other Mr M was being told by HMRC it knew nothing of the error .Mr M 
had told Al Rayan this in his call on 18 April 2019, and Al Rayan records in its case notes 
Please can you give customer some evidence that this has been resolved to give him some 
peace of mind.
Al Rayan was aware that Mr M wanted some form of confirmation that it had been in touch 
with HMRC and that HMRC had resolved the issue. Although Mr M accepted the payment of 
£50 it seems reasonable for me to infer that this was on the understanding Al Rayan would 
provide some evidence it had raised the matter of HMRC, and a resolution had been agreed. 
Mr M continued to ask for some evidence that HMRC had been contacted, but even though 
Al Rayan received confirmation from HMRC on 2 August 2019 that it had fixed the matter of 
the interest overpayment, Al Rayan did not tell Mr M until after he had made a further 
enquiry of it in October 2019. This meant that Mr M didnt receive peace of mind until 
October 2019 because Al Rayan didnt provide the evidence Mr M wanted, and Al Rayan 
knew how important this was to Mr M.
I do understand why Al Rayan considers it dealt with the complaint in May 2019, but I am 
satisfied it led Mr M to believe it would supply him evidence that it had resolved the matter 
with HMRC. Mr M did wait some time for this evidence, but because Al Rayan failed to send 
him the evidence it received on 2 August 20019 until October 2019, I think this delay caused 
Mr M more distress and inconvenience.
Having considered the email from HMRC, dated 2 August 2019, I am satisfied, on the 
balance of probability, HMRC has now resolved the matter of the overpaid tax from 2017/18. 
If for any reason Mr M believes this isnt the case, then he can take this up with HMRC 
directly.
In respect of the 2018/19 interest accrued on the Fixed Term ISA, Al Rayan says that it 
would have told Mr M if tax had been paid on this. It says that this should be enough to 
satisfy Mr M. I would have some empathy with this position if Mr M had not experienced the 
issues he did between March 2019 and October 2019. But it is reasonable for me to 
conclude Mr M wanted to be sure the same mistake hadnt happened in the tax year 
2018/19.
I have considered asking Al Rayan to confirm in writing to Mr M that interest for 2018/19 was 
unaffected, but I have seen no evidence it has been affected. It is reasonable for me to infer 
that, as Mr M hasnt been told by Al Rayan or HMRC his interest has been taxed, I dont 
need to tell Al Rayan to do anything else in this respect. Mr Ms annual statement will make 
this clear to him anyway.
I have noted the comment made by Al Rayan that in a similar case, we have decided that a 
£50 payment was reasonable. Al Rayan says that it is therefore inconsistent I should 
consider an additional £100 remedy. I understand the comments, but I have considered the 
circumstances related to Mr Ms case, and I am satisfied that Mr M did not only suffer the 
inconvenience caused by Al Rayans error, but he also had to make further enquiries of 
HMRC. And Al Rayan, in this case, could have avoided the need for him to do this if it had 
provided him with evidence it had informed HMRC much earlier than it did. This would have enabled Mr M, more likely than not, to address the conflicting information he was getting 
from HMRC.
Putting things right
I can see that Al Rayan Bank PLC has accepted that its error caused Mr M some distress 
and inconvenience, but I do not consider the payment of £50 it made is a reasonable remedy 
that reflects the ongoing stress and inconvenience his matter caused Mr M.
In my opinion, this payment does not adequately reflect the time Mr M had to spend on the 
telephone talking to HMRC and Al Rayan Bank PLC, and that Al Rayan Bank PLC shouldve 
provided Mr M evidence it had passed the matter to HMRC to deal with. It is disappointing 
that even after Mr M had expressly requested evidence it had informed HMRC, Al Rayan 
Bank PLC did not tell him of the email it received from HMRC dated 2 August for four 
months.
I have therefore decided that Al Rayan Bank PLC should take further steps to put matters 
right. It should pay Mr M a further £100 to reflect the ongoing distress and inconvenience it 
caused Mr M by failing to provide him with evidence that it had told HMRC of the matter, and 
that HMRC had dealt with it by 2 August 2019.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To settle the complaint, Al Rayan Bank PLC 
should pay Mr M £100, in addition to the £50 it has already paid him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020. 
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman