DRN-3339942
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded debit card payments he made while 
under the influence of a scam.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr F spoke with who he believed was an investment broker, B, via social 
media. Following this he made international bank transfers to two legitimate cryptocurrency 
merchants and hes explained this money was sent onto the scammer for trading.
Mr F discovered hed been the victim of a scam when he tried to withdraw funds from his 
account with B, and was instead asked for more money. He contacted HSBC and asked it to 
help him get the funds back. HSBC said it couldnt raise a chargeback as the payments 
werent sent to the scammer, but to legitimate cryptocurrency firms. And it didnt agree it had 
made a mistake with allowing the payments, so it didnt agree to reimburse Mr F. He raised a 
complaint about this, but HSBC didnt uphold it.
Mr F came to our service and our investigator partially upheld his complaint. He felt that 
HSBC shouldve intervened part-way through the payments Mr F was making. And that if it 
had, hed have stopped making payments as hed have researched B and discovered it was 
a scam firm. HSBC disagreed it shouldve intervened and also said there was no evidence 
Mr F did send these payments onto B. So it asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in early February 2022. My provisional findings 
were as follows: 
I accept Mr F has explained to our service that he no longer holds any evidence 
relating to this scam, as it was such a difficult time for him, he deleted everything. I 
accept he did this and that being the victim of a scam can have a great impact on 
someone. However, this means he hasnt provided us with any physical evidence 
that shows his payments went from the legitimate firms we know he paid, to the scam 
company.
In response to the investigators view, HSBC raised concerns around the lack of scam 
evidence, as while we of course are not accusing Mr F of any dishonesty, we are 
asking HSBC to make a large financial payment to him without any proof this money 
was lost. And I can understand why HSBC does have concerns  as we do need to 
be fair to both parties.
Without anything to link Mr Fs legitimate payments to the scammer, such as 
screenshots from the legitimate accounts showing the funds were transferred to the 
scammer; or conversations relating to the payments between Mr F and the scammer, 
I cant say the money should be refunded. I know why Mr F cant provide this 
evidence now, but I cant reasonably ask HSBC to pay him a large sum when he 
cant show this money was actually lost as the result of this scam.
While this doesnt then greatly impact my decision, Ive looked at the way Mr F made 
his payments as part of my review of his whole complaint. And I think it is worth 
sharing these findings. I cant agree with the investigator that any of his payments 
shouldve triggered an intervention by HSBC.
Mr F started out by making small payments to the legitimate firms and then 
incrementally increased these. This means that there wasnt ever a stark or dramatic 
increase in what he was sending, for example a single, unusual large payment being 
sent out which therefore shouldve caused HSBC to intervene. And while I have 
considered the fact Mr F sent a reasonable amount over a two-week period, due to 
these incremental increases up to a large sum, I still dont consider this shouldve 
flagged on HSBCs systems.
Mr F started off with a small payment of £154.10 to the second legitimate firm and 
then sent a second payment of £1,541.03 that day. He sent a third payment of 
£1,763.80 three days later. So by this time, this firm was a known payee to him and, 
as previously stated, the payments were going to a legitimate firm who did provide 
the service Mr F paid for. So if HSBC had checked on the payees in that time period, 
neither wouldve have flagged up as of concern.
I accept the payments in question may not have been exactly the type Mr F 
previously made. But I can see on his statements that hes previously sent payments 
of over a thousand pounds from this account, including in the six months before 
these payments. And hes also sent international payments in the months before 
making these cryptocurrency payments. So the types of payments hes disputing 
here arent unique or completely unusual for this account.
Due to the above, I dont consider the payment on 1 May 2019 shouldve triggered, 
as the investigator determined. This was payment number six to this same payee 
and under £800 more than payment number five, of £2,330.22. These type of 
payments and this payee were therefore not unusual by this stage. And it isnt 
uncommon for people genuinely investing to make payments in this way, small 
amounts first and then increasing the payments as the investment proves successful.
Ive thought about the amounts sent and Mr Fs account activity generally, but I dont 
consider the disputed payments were unusual enough to say HSBC made a mistake 
in not intervening. On that basis, even if I was to determine that HSBC should accept 
Mr Fs testimony that this money was lost to a scam, I still dont consider it should be 
refunding him any payments.
HSBC responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing to add. Mr F responded 
and confirmed hed deleted everything he had relating to this scam. So this case has now 
been returned to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence or comments for me to consider, I see no 
reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Without any further evidence from Mr F, I cant conclude that these payments were lost as 
the result of a scam. I appreciate Mr F has been through a very difficult and distressing time. 
But, as I also dont consider the payments ought to have triggered an intervention from HSBC, even with further evidence of the scam, I couldnt say HSBC are responsible. So Im 
not directing it to reimburse Mr F any of the payments he made. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman