DRN-3513999
Complaint
Ms P is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt do more to 
protect her from fraud.
Background
Between 2012 and 2019, Ms P lost significant sums of money from her a Halifax account 
she held jointly with Mr W. The account was under the illicit control of her ex-husband. The 
background to this complaint was set out in detail in the Investigators assessment, so I dont 
intend to repeat it in full here. Ms P is fully aware of the events that led to her bringing her 
complaints to this service and I dont want to needlessly distress her by setting it out at 
length a second time. Furthermore, the perpetrator is now the subject of criminal 
proceedings and so Im reluctant to provide any more background detail than is strictly 
necessary.
For several years, her accounts were controlled by her Mr B. Ms P and Mr B were married 
during this time, but they have since divorced. She says that in 2012 he asked her to sign a 
document relinquishing control over one of her accounts. He apparently told her that his 
business account had been closed by his bank. He needed access to an account to receive 
his salary. Ms P felt like she had no option but to comply with this request. She also says 
that she handed over all her bank cards to Mr B, including those that were connected with 
her other accounts. From this point on, Ms P had no access to any of her own bank 
accounts. Shortly after this, an application for an online banking facility was made to Halifax. 
The application appears to have been made by Mr B, presumably by taking advantage of 
having access to Ms Ps security credentials.
This situation persisted until 2019. It only came to light when Ms P contacted the police to let 
it know about Mr Bs abusive behaviour. Around the same time, shed been considering 
setting up her own business. She approached Halifax because she wanted to apply for a 
business account. it was at this point that she became aware of the position of her Halifax 
accounts. The balances were considerably lower than shed expected. 
She notified Halifax that shed been a victim of fraud. It investigated, but it didnt agree to 
refund these transactions. Ms P wasnt happy with that response and so she referred a 
complaint to this service.
It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator said that it was fair 
and reasonable for Halifax to treat the transactions as authorised. Although she hadnt given 
Mr B permission to make any of these individual transactions, she had handed control of her 
account to him. All these transactions wouldve appeared to have been authorised by him 
and so, under the principle of apparent authority, it was reasonable for it to treat them as 
authorised. The Investigator also said that if Halifax had been closely monitoring her account 
to detect potential fraud, it wouldnt have seen anything in the way the account was being 
used that wouldve reasonably given rise to any suspicion.
Nonetheless, she didnt think that Halifax had handled things particularly well when Ms P 
notified them about what Mr B had been doing. As part of a separate complaint, she 
recommended it pay £400 in recognition of the distress it had caused to her. But she made 
no recommendation as part of this complaint. Ms P disagreed with the Investigators view. 
She set out the scale of the impact Mr Bs abuse had on her and argued that shed never 
given Mr B permission to spend any of her money. Shed handed over the bank cards to him 
because she was fearful of the potential consequences of not simply going along with his 
wishes.
Because Ms P disagreed with the Investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt my role to determine whether or not Mr B committed a crime. I understand he has 
been investigated by the police and a decision was made by the Crown Prosecution Service 
to charge him in connection with the offences that Ms P has alleged. My role is to determine 
the extent of the banks liability for the transactions. 
The regulations that apply to this case say that Halifax cant hold Ms P liable for any 
transactions if she didnt authorise them. Furthermore, a transaction can only be considered 
authorised if it was made with Ms Ps consent. Its quite clear from the account that Ms P has 
given us that she didnt consent on an individual basis to every transaction that was made 
from her accounts. However, it is possible for her to give someone else authority to carry out 
transactions so that she would be legally responsible for them, even if she didnt physically 
make them or give explicit permission for each individual payment. Halifax can hold a 
customer responsible for any spending that happened because they gave someone else 
permission to carry out transactions on their behalf. The legal term for this is apparent 
authority. So even though Ms P didnt agree to or know about these payments, providing Mr 
B with the ability to make some payments served to, in effect, authorise the further spending 
Mr B went on to undertake. 
Ms P has questioned whether the online banking transfers should be treated differently since 
she never specifically allowed Mr B to set this up. However, the fact that he was only able to 
do so using her security credentials, there was no way for Halifax to have known that this 
request hadnt legitimately been made by her. 
I do recognise that Ms P only handed over control of her finances to Mr B because she was 
terrified of the consequences of her not complying with his demands. I cannot begin to 
comprehend such a situation or how difficult this mustve been for Ms P. However, from 
Halifaxs perspective, it wouldnt have had any way to deduce the appalling reality of the 
situation. Unfortunately, I agree with the Investigators conclusion that Halifax can treat these 
transactions as if they were authorised.
Other considerations
Although in general terms Halifax was required to process authorised payments as 
requested by its customers, it nonetheless had some additional obligations to intervene to 
protect its customers from financial harm due to fraud. It was required to be on the lookout 
for transactions that had an increased risk of being connected with fraud. It now looks clear 
that Ms P was an ongoing victim of a fraud throughout this period. But the question I must 
address is whether it shouldve been clear to Halifax that she was at risk of financial harm 
such that it shouldve intervened and questioned individual payments. Ive looked at the statements for the accounts that are the subject of this complaint. 
Unfortunately, I dont think there wouldve been any clear indication from the way the 
account was being used that Ms P was at risk of fraud. I can see that that were two large 
payments for £6,000 made in July 2016 and September 2017 respectively. However, both 
were transfers to an account in Ms Ps name. I dont think that Halifax wouldve had any 
reasonable basis for questioning these payments. I recognise that if Halifax had intervened, 
there was a possibility that it couldve prevented some of the later payments and so reduced 
the amount of money Ms P lost to the scam. But unfortunately, I dont think there was any 
clear indication of a fraud risk such that Halifax shouldve questioned the payments with her 
before processing them.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman