DRN-3360693
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Marks and Spencer Financial Services plc (M&S) wont refund 
payments she made to an investment company on her credit card.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2017 Mrs C opened an account with a merchant Ill refer to as O. At the times relevant to 
this complaint O were a firm that offered online investment trading services which was 
regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC). 
In April and May 2018 Mrs C made a series of payments to credit her account with O using 
her M&S Mastercard credit card. These payments totalled £1,650. In September 2018 Mrs C 
asked M&S to refund her either through the chargeback scheme or Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). She says that shortly after opening her account, 
she went through video tutorials provided by O. And that one of these videos informed her 
she could sell her position at any time. 
Mrs C says she was aware of the sell function but didnt need it until several months after 
opening her account. In 2018 Mrs C says she opened a trade in error and there was no sell 
button to enable her to close it. I understand that Mrs C lost her money as a result of this. 
She evidenced that shed complained directly to O. Part of Os response included your 
allegations for the non-availability of the buyout option for the relevant trades as per your 
complaint are not justified, since the provision of such option is at the sole discretion of the 
Company as per the Agreement.
Ultimately M&S declined to reimburse Mrs C. In summary they said that there was no option 
for a chargeback under the Mastercard scheme rules. They also said that Section 75 didnt 
apply as the loading of an investment account was effectively a money transfer. Mrs C 
referred her complaint to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend it should 
be upheld. As she disagreed, Mrs C asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint.
In May 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same overall outcome as our Investigator. But as my 
reasoning is different, Im issuing this provisional decision to give everyone a further 
opportunity to comment before finalising my decision.
 
M&S said that Section 75 doesnt apply to Mrs Cs payments. For Section 75 to apply there 
must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction;
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a    
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000.
Transaction isnt defined by the Act, but it has generally been given a wide interpretation by 
the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal. Here, Mrs C, 
having opened an account, has deposited funds in exchange for being able to use those 
funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when she wished. 
Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there 
was a transaction for the deposit-transaction as defined by the Act. 
Again to finance is not defined under the Act. An ordinary definition would be to provide 
funds to do something. In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004] Miss Justice 
Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed The phrase to finance 
approaching the matter in a common sense way must mean provide financial 
accommodation in respect of... A credit card issuer clearly provides financial 
accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to her purchases from suppliers, because she is 
given time to pay for her purchase under the terms of the credit card agreement. 
Applying that ordinary definition here, if Mrs C had not used her credit card she would have 
had to find the cash from her own resources to fund the deposit transaction and obtain the 
investment/trading opportunity this supposedly entitled her to. So, its clear that the deposit-
transaction was financed by the agreement.
Third, the claim must relate to the transaction. Its important to consider what Mrs Cs claim 
is here. Its evident from her testimony and correspondence she provided that she feels she 
was misled into depositing the payment with O based on a promised ability to be able to 
close a trade at a time of her choosing in line with the video shes referenced. 
This claim  that Mrs C was misled into depositing funds is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transaction. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
In this case, if Mrs C was told by O matters that were factually untrue in order to trick her into 
entering into the deposit-transaction, her claim would be for misrepresentation. Or, if O made 
binding promises to her as part of those transactions and went on to breach these that would 
make her claim one for breach of contract. 
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is 
the value of that deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
M&S has declined the claim under Section 75 because it says that Mrs C was paying into a 
trading account. It said, the deposits were not for the purchase of goods/services, they were 
a credit to her trading account. I take this to mean that the deposit was nothing more than 
transferring money onto another account, opened for the purpose of speculating with the 
money, rather than being a payment that was used to purchase goods. 
When funds are deposited onto a trading account this isnt necessarily just a transfer of 
money between accounts, it may also have been paid in return for something. In this case O 
has made contractual promises in exchange for the deposit-transaction. M&S in its refusal to 
accept liability under Section 75 havent quoted the Act itself. It is important to note that 
Section 75 doesnt use the term purchase of goods or services nor is there anything within 
the Act that would exclude the present type of transaction. For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that Section 75 does apply to the credit card deposit transactions. Ill therefore 
go on to consider whether Mrs C has a valid claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.
Misrepresentation
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact but also that the statement induced Mrs C into entering into an agreement. 
In essence Mrs C says the tutorial videos included a false statement. And having seen this in 
2017, it induced her to make her deposits in 2018. Ive considered all the evidence and 
comments Mrs C has made, but I dont think shes evidenced she has a valid claim for 
misrepresentation. 
Firstly, beyond her testimony I havent got further evidence to support what Mrs C says 
about the content of the video. I also have to take into account the evidence from O. When 
responding to Mrs C O said: The video which you make reference to does not refer to the 
availability of the buyout function but describes how the buyout function works. Thereby your 
interpretation as the video providing any promise regarding the availability of the buyout 
function is false and unsubstantiated. 
Im not persuaded that Mrs C was induced into entering into a contract with O in 2018 on the 
basis of a video she saw illustrating a sell function in 2017, I think its more likely that there 
were other contributing factors to her decision to do so. In any event, Im currently more 
persuaded by the explanation given by O than by Mrs Cs testimony. I dont think Mrs C has 
evidenced that a false statement of fact has been made.  And without a false statement of 
fact, there cant have been a misrepresentation. 
Breach of Contract
Ive also considered whether Mrs C has a valid claim for a breach of contract against O. Ive 
read the terms and conditions of the agreement between O and Mrs C. These are clear that 
O has no liability to Mrs C unless such liabilities result from gross negligence, wilful default 
or fraud by the Company. 
So even if the sell button ought to have been present at the times Mrs C says it should, O 
would only be liable if its absence was a result of gross negligence, wilful default or fraud. 
Ive not seen evidence to support that this is the case. Mrs C has quoted what she was told 
by O which was that this is how our platform works. It seems that much of her 
dissatisfaction lies with their platform not performing how she would have liked it to. But Im 
not persuaded this amounts to a breach of contract in these circumstances. 
Chargeback
For completeness, I also think it was fair for M&S to not pursue a chargeback. M&S are 
bound by the Mastercard scheme rules and these are clear that there are very limited 
options for a chargeback in relation to any form of investment. Mrs Cs claim is not that her 
money wasnt credited to her account, but was more about the technical issues she 
experienced with the platform. As such I think M&S not raising a chargeback was a 
reasonable exercise of their discretion.
Neither M&S nor Mrs C responded to my provisional decision. Now both parties have had an 
opportunity to comment I can go ahead with my final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further evidence or comments for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman