DRN-2445989
The complaint
Mr M complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited cancelled his motor 
insurance policy. He wants it reinstated or a full refund of his premiums. 
 
What happened
Mr M renewed his insurance with Watford through its agent. It asked for specific information 
to validate his policy. Watfords agent said Mr M didnt provide this within the required time. 
So Watford cancelled his policy. Mr M was unhappy with this and that he only received a 
partial refund of his premium.
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Watford 
had given Mr M sufficient detail about what he needed to provide and sufficient time in which 
to provide this. But he thought Mr M hadnt provided the required information within the 
specified time. So he thought it was fair and reasonable for Watford to cancel the policy. 
Mr M replied that he thought Watfords agent had cancelled his policy early. He also thought 
it had charged him too much for the cancellation and his time on cover.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Watford on 17 November 2020. I summarise my findings:
I could understand Mr Ms frustration. Due to the cancellation, he was unable to travel to 
work for a week. Hes told us that his new insurance costs twice as much as his previous 
cover. 
The decision to request validation documents from Mr M and then to cancel the policy was 
taken by the policys underwriters, Watford. So Ive considered here whether its actions, and 
those of its agent, in cancelling the policy were fair and reasonable. 
Watfords agents Terms of Business state that it may require documentation from 
consumers to validate their policies. They state that these should be provided within 21 days 
of the start date of the policy at the risk of cancellation. 
Mr M provided some of the required validation documents within the first four weeks the 
policy was in operation. An undisclosed motoring offence then came to light. So the 
underwriter, Watford, requested full validation of the policy within seven days.
Watfords agent then gave Mr M seven days notice to provide further documents. These 
were a proof of address, a copy of the V5 document, photographs of the car and the cars 
VIN and proof of his and the named drivers occupations. 
Watfords agents letter provided details about what was acceptable evidence, including that 
for the proof of occupations:
Payslip dated within the last 3 months which clearly states your job title or a dated company 
headed letter, from your Employer which clearly shows your name and confirms your job 
title.
The letter also included a number to call if there were any queries. Mr M said hed been on 
the phone to an advisor who had told him that a payslip would be fine. But Watfords agent 
said it had no records of calls from him after the letter was sent. 
Watford received some of the required documents six days later, but the proof of occupation 
was unacceptable as it didnt include a job title. I couldnt see that Mr M provided proof of the 
named drivers occupation. 
However, I saw that Mr M on the afternoon of the last day sent in the proof of address for 
himself and the named driver, photographs of the car and its VIN number and the V5. He 
also called Watfords agent to check these were received. Watford didnt say that any of 
these documents were unacceptable. 
So because Mr M had sent in most of the required information, I thought about whether 
Watford should have given Mr M an extension to provide the required proof of occupation. It 
had already allowed him seven days and he couldnt provide the requested information in 
that time. I thought this was clearly described and I couldnt see that Watford treated Mr M 
any differently to other consumers. 
But Mr M had explained the difficulty of obtaining this specific piece of information. Looking 
at his payslip, I thought it did describe his duties and his employers name. I thought Watford 
could have taken this into account. I thought Mr M had provided most of the documents 
required. And so I thought it was unfair and unreasonable for Watford to not allow Mr M 
further time to provide the required proof. 
Watfords agent emailed Mr M 14 minutes before the deadline to tell him that the policy had 
cancelled. I didnt think this early cancellation would have made any difference as I thought it 
was extremely unlikely Mr M would have been able to provide the required documentation 
within this time. 
But I thought Watford acted unfairly and unreasonably when it cancelled the policy as Mr M 
hadnt provided just two of the required validation documents within the specified time. 
When Watford cancelled the policy, charges were applied to the full premium Mr M had paid 
so that Mr M only got back £1,651 of the £2,077.13 hed paid. Some of these charges were 
applied by the broker and these are the subject of a separate complaint. So Ill not consider 
those here.
Watford charged Mr M £188.32 for his time on cover. I could see that this was charged pro 
rata for the days the insurer was at risk. Thats in keeping with our approach. So I think thats 
fair and reasonable. I dont require Watford to make Mr M any refund of his premium.
Subject to any further representations by Mr M or Watford, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I thought the cancellation had been unfair. And so I 
intended to require Watford to put things right for Mr M and to pay him £250 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M agreed with my provisional decision. Watford didnt provide me with any further 
evidence to consider. So I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr M, I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to do the 
following:
1. Remove records of the cancellation from any databases where its been recorded. 
2. Provide Mr M with a letter stating that the policy was cancelled in error so that he can 
ask his new insurer to rerate his policy. 
3. Pay Mr M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair 
cancellation of his policy. This is in keeping with the level Id award in similar 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman