DRN-2673814
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Santander UK Plc failed to make an online payment and 
blocked their current account whilst they were abroad.   
What happened
In the summer of 2020 Mr and Mrs O told Santander they were going to spend some time 
abroad. While they were away, Mr and Mrs O instructed an online payment to a business 
that converts currency. Mr and Mrs O have explained they needed the funds to pay for 
building work. 
The payment was picked up by Santander for further checks and a One Time Passcode 
(OTP) was sent via text message. But Mr and Mrs O have told us it wasnt received in time 
to complete the transaction. 
Mr O spoke with Santander via an online chat facility but was told it couldnt approve the 
payment. Santander said there was a problem with the online banking system around this 
time and Mr O was asked to call telephone banking to complete the payment. Mr O 
complained and said he didnt have access to a phone with credit whilst away. 
Mr and Mrs Os account was blocked as the payment wasnt confirmed as genuine. 
Mr O called Santander to try and resolve the situation and complained that the OTP had 
taken three hours to arrive. Mr O was asked to contact the currency business to complete 
the payment over the phone but Santanders call handler explained they couldnt send a new 
OTP. 
Mr O called Santander to try and resolve the situation but some of his calls were cut off. 
Mr and Mrs O complained but Santander didnt accept an error bad been made when it 
blocked the payment and account. Santander apologised that the account block had 
impacted regular payments that were due to leave Mr and Mrs Os account. Santander paid 
Mr and Mrs O a total of £100 to apologise for the issues raised, but said the decision to stop 
the payment and block their account was correct and in line with the terms.  
Mr and Mrs O referred their complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. 
They thought Santander had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr and Mrs O asked to appeal and said they had been incorrectly told Santander would 
only charge a connection fee when they called. Mr O also explained that a standing order in 
his name had been unreasonably stopped despite one in Mrs Os name being allowed to go 
through. Mr and Mrs O repeated their concern that the OTP wasnt received in good time 
and that their account was blocked as a result. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the payment in question and can I understand the OTP code wasnt received 
in time to authorise it. Whilst I appreciate how important this payment was, Im satisfied that 
Santander did process the payment correctly and an OTP was sent as claimed. I dont know 
why there was a delay in the OTP being received, but Mr and Mrs O have told us they were 
abroad at the time so this may have impacted how long it took to be received.
Santander has also sent evidence to show it tried to call the phone number registered to Mr 
and Mrs Os account but wasnt able to speak with them. I understand this was their landline 
and that Mr and Mrs O were abroad. But the call was automated and Im satisfied 
Santanders attempt to reach Mr and Mrs O using the primary number registered to their 
account was a reasonable approach.
Santander has explained the account block was put in place when it wasnt able to confirm 
the payment was genuine and that its actions were intended to protect the account. I think 
thats a reasonable approach and in line with the account terms, as quoted by the 
investigator in their findings. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs O but I havent found that 
Santander made a mistake or treated them unfairly when it failed to process the payment or 
blocked their account access. 
Mr and Mrs O have complained that information about the call costs they were given by 
Santander wasnt accurate. But the online chat log Ive seen shows Santander said it 
couldnt confirm what they would be charged for making a call and recommended they check 
with their mobile phone provider. I didnt find that Mr and Mrs O were misled by Santander. 
Ive looked at the available information and listened to the calls Mr O had with Santander. I 
agree that some of the information provided wasnt clear and that it was suggested the 
problems experienced making the payment were somehow connected to ongoing IT issues. 
But Santander has confirmed the block was added after it couldnt confirm the payment with 
Mr and Mrs O, not because of any other issues going on at the time. 
Mr O has pointed out a regular payment in his name was stopped whilst another, in Mrs Os 
name, was not. Santander has apologised for the impact its account block caused but says 
its account terms allow it to halt certain payments. So whilst I appreciate Mrs Os payment 
may not have been affected, I dont think Santander made an error when it blocked the 
payment in question.
Santander has paid £25 and offered Mr and Mrs O a further £75 compensation to resolve 
their complaint. Whilst I can see how frustrating the situation was, I havent found that 
Santander made a mistake or treated Mr and Mrs O unfairly by stopping the payment and 
putting an account block in place. I agree the service provided could have been better but 
Im satisfied that the total compensation figure of £100 is fair in all the circumstances. As a 
result, Im not telling Santander to increase its offer or take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Santander has already made an 
offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman