DRN-3134612
The complaint
Mrs S says 1Plus1 Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs S took out three guarantor loans from 1Plus 1 Loans. This means they were given on 
the basis that Mrs S had a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying the loans if she 
failed to. A summary of her borrowing follows. Loans 2 and 3 were used in part to repay the 
previous loans.
loan taken out value, £term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £total 
repayable, £
1 20/3/2017 1,000 18 74.73 1,345.14
2 05/10/2017 2,000 24 122.50 2,940
3 01/06/2018 3,000 24 183.75 4,410
Mrs S says the lender did not do proper checks and its unaffordable lending made her poor 
financial situation worse.
Our investigator said Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. He said the checks were not 
proportionate. They showed signs of financial difficulty, but there also seemed to be an error 
in the lenders affordability assessment for loan 1 and if this was corrected it was not 
affordable. He said loans 2 and 3 should not have been given as there was evidence on her 
credit file that her financial position was getting worse.
1Plus 1 Loans disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said, in summary:
it lends to customers that may not have a good history to give them a chance to 
improve their credit rating;
it did not need bank statements to check Mrs Ss declarations as it carried out 
income verification with a third party  and the regulations at the time, and now, do 
not require it to obtain bank statements;
Mrs S was able to make her loan repayments without using short-term credit  her 
income increased at the time of each additional loan;
the assessment for loan one used a rent of £425 not £225  the file sent to this 
service includes a typo, it took into account the full amount; and
the investigator said the short-term loans taken out at the time of loans 2 and 3 
suggested Mrs S did not have the disposable income 1Plus 1 Loans had calculated, 
but it had taken all existing credit commitments into account.
It also made some more generic comments about this services approach to complaints 
about irresponsible lending. I have considered its response in full, but will comment in this 
decision only on those points I find to be material to the outcome of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when 1Plus1 Loans lent to Mrs S.
Its rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged 1Plus1
Loans to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, 1Plus1 Loans was required to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mrs S could afford to repay what she
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So 1Plus1 Loans had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mrs S. In other words, it wasnt enough for 1Plus1 Loans to simply think about the likelihood 
of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to
make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether 1Plus1 Loans did what it needed to before
agreeing to lend to Mrs S, and have considered the following questions:
did 1Plus1 Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mrs Ss loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in 
a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown
did 1Plus1 Loans make fair lending decisions?
did 1Plus1 Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
1Plus1 Loans asked for some information from Mrs S before it approved the loans. It asked 
about her residential and marital status and whether she had dependents. It asked for details 
of her income, and verified this externally, and her monthly living costs which it validated 
against national statistics. It added a buffer for unplanned expenses. Each time it checked 
her credit file to understand her credit history and current monthly repayments. From these checks combined 1Plus1 Loans concluded Mrs S would have sufficient monthly disposable 
income for each loan to be affordable. 
I dont agree with its assessment. Ill explain why. 
Loan 1
This is an extract from the affordability file 1Plus 1 Loans sent us showing Mrs Ss essential 
monthly costs, they were mainly as she declared or adjusted based on national statistics (eg. 
food):
Day to Day Items Non Discretionary (VERBAL)
Mortgage/Rent £225 
Council Tax £60 
Gas £20 
Electricity £20 
Water £25 
TV License £12 
Home Insurance £0 
Phone and Internet £60 
Food Costs £200 
Travel £30 
Clothing £20 
School Meals £0 
Media £0 
Other £0 
Credit File Total £146 
Emergency Buffer £100 
SURPLUS (Monthly) Verbal. £222 
I think this clearly shows it used £225 as Mrs Ss rent payment, not £425 as it said in 
response to the investigators assessment. Mrs Ss income was £1,140 and the expenses 
listed above total £918. Had it used the full rent of £425 her surplus would have dropped to 
£22 making this loan unaffordable for Mrs S. I note there is a comment on the file that her 
partner splits the bills, but it is not clear how this impacts the numbers. 
The lender has provided a copy of the application call. At the start of the recording Mrs S 
confirms her rent is £425 a month in total. The adviser later clarifies he just wants to know 
her share of household costs and she confirms she pays all of the £425 rent. She later 
comments that her partner contributes around £200 to household bills  which is perhaps 
why the lender reduced the rent payment to £225. But I think it needed more certainty 
around this point, and to understand who the named tenant was before making this 
deduction. As it pointed out it used £425 in the assessment for loan 2 which was only six 
months later and for loan 3. So I am not wholly satisfied its checks were good enough. 
However I wont comment further on this as even based on the information it gathered I think 
it was wrong to lend to Mrs S. The lender could see from its credit checks that Mrs S had missed the latest payments on 
two of her credit cards that had sizeable balances. And Mrs S explained on the application 
call that she was about set up an arrangement to pay on each card indicating she was 
already struggling financially. I dont think it was right for 1Plus 1 Loans to lend to her 
knowing she was already failing to make her contractual repayments on other accounts. 
Mrs S was planning to settle some of her existing debts but made clear she would still be 
unable to meet her existing commitments on these two cards. In addition she had not yet 
agreed a payment plan with those two lenders, yet 1Plus 1 Loans suggested monthly 
amounts she would pay and based its affordability assessment on those figures. 
The regulatory guidelines in place at the time of loan 1, set out in CONC 5.3.1(G) 6 a) i), 
meant that the lender needed to ensure the applicant would be able to meet their other 
reasonable commitments. I dont think it did this. 
It follows I think 1Plus 1 Loans was wrong to give loan 1 to Mrs S.
Loans 2 and 3
When Mrs S applied for loan 2 1Plus 1 Loans could see from its checks that since loan 1 
(just over six months ago) two credit cards defaults were now on her file and she had taken 
out four payday loans. She hadnt repaid the debt she had intended to when she took out 
loan 1 and her overall indebtedness had increased by over 150%. So there were clear signs 
that Mrs S was having problems managing her money and I think the lender ought to have 
realised it was unlikely she would be able to repay this loan without borrowing again or 
suffering financial harm. 
Whilst the loan was in part to settle some of her debts, as well as for a holiday, she was only 
repaying around £1,900 of debt out of her total debts of £21,346 so I dont think this would 
have relieved her financial pressure, rather it prolonged her reliance on higher cost credit.
By the time Mrs S applied for the third loan the credit check showed her finances had further 
deteriorated. She had defaulted on two of the payday loans and this had resulted in a CCJ 
being registered against her in January 2018. Her overall indebtedness had increased to 
over £27,000. For the same reason as for loan 2 I think it was wrong for 1Plus 1 Loans to 
give loan 3 to Mrs S.
1Plus 1 Loans argues that its affordability assessments took into account all of Mrs Ss credit 
commitments. Her income had increased and she could afford loans 2 and 3 along with all 
her existing credit commitments. I would make two points in response to this. It was required 
to do more than check the pounds and pence affordability and Mrs S was evidently already 
failing to meet her existing commitments. The regulatory guidelines in place at the time 
meant that the lender needed to ensure the applicant would be able to repay without 
borrowing to do so and without it adversely impacting their financial situation. I havent seen 
evidence that it considered this  and it had information from the credit check that suggested 
Mrs Ss finances were already under pressure. 
And secondly, its calculations relied in part on Mrs Ss declarations. It argues that it wasnt a 
requirement, then or now, to have sight of her bank statements as verification. To be clear, 
the investigators assessment didnt say it was and made clear the regulations dont set out 
specific checks. But reviewing bank statements is one way a lender can complete a fuller 
financial review in circumstances where it is proportionate to do so. In the case of both loans 
2 and 3, however, I think the credit checks gave sufficient indication that there was a risk 
further borrowing would be harmful to Mrs S. In response to the point the lender made about the creditworthiness of its customer 
demographic I understand applicants will often have adverse data on their credit file. I have 
not reached the conclusions set out above because I think this is an automatic reason not to 
lend. I have carefully considered the timings of the adverse events and in each case what 
they demonstrated about Mrs Ss financial situation at the point of each application. I cannot 
reconcile its statement in response to the investigators assessment that it lends to 
customers who may not have good credit history and deserve a chance to improve their 
credit rating with the lending decisions it made whilst aware of the increase in both Mrs Ss 
total indebtedness and amount of adverse data on her file. 
So overall, for the reasons set out above, I find 1Plus 1 Loans lent irresponsibly to Mrs S.
I havent seen any evidence that 1Plus 1 Loans acted unfairly towards Mrs S in any other 
way.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mrs S to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt
have been provided to her. So 1Plus 1 Loans need to put things right.
It should:
Add up the total amount of money Mrs S received as a result of having been given all 
three loans. The repayments she made should be deducted from this amount.
If reworking Mrs Ss loan accounts results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then 1Plus1 Loans should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mrs Ss loan accounts leaves a capital balance outstanding 1Plus1 
Loans should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs S.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ss credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1 Loans should
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Ss complaint. 1Plus 1 Loans Limited must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman