DRN-2657731
The complaint
Miss H complains about Acromas Insurance Company Limited (AIC) and the way they 
handled her insurance claim.
What happened
In July 2019, Miss H found her car smoking from under the bonnet. Damage was caused to 
Miss Hs car, so she made a claim on her insurance policy. This policy was underwritten by 
AIC.
AIC arranged for Miss Hs car to be collected and assessed by their recovery agent, who Ill 
refer to as P. While P had Miss Hs car, she contacted her own garage and decided she 
wanted her car to be sent to them. AIC explained P needed to assess the damage to Miss 
Hs car but agreed to ask P to arrange the delivery of her car to her garage afterwards.
But this took longer than Miss H expected. She chased AIC for updates on several 
occasions and AIC admitted they hadnt made P aware Miss H wanted her car to be 
delivered to her garage. Initially, P said Miss H would need to cover the costs of this delivery, 
but AIC explained this was incorrect and no fees were charged. When Miss Hs car was 
delivered to her garage, she was unhappy with its condition. She was also unhappy that 
personal contents were no longer in the car. So, she raised a complaint.
Miss H complained about the length of time it had taken AIC and P to deliver her car to her 
garage. And she was unhappy with the condition of the car when it was received. She said 
the boot was dirty and there were scratches and scuffs on the body of the car. She also 
alleged that personal items of value had been removed without her consent. So, she wanted 
to be compensated for the value of these items, as well as the delays shed experienced and 
the condition of the car.
AIC partially upheld Miss Hs complaint. They agreed there had been delays in delivering her 
car to her garage and they accepted these delays were due to an error on their part. They 
also agreed they couldve communicated with Miss H more effectively. So, they offered Miss 
H £150 to compensate her for this. But they didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint about her 
personal items. They explained P reported the car as having no items in it when it was 
received. And Miss H had been unable to provide proof of purchase for these items. So, 
without this, they explained they were unable to consider reimbursement and didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong when taking this stance. Miss H remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She didnt dispute there had 
been delays assessing the car and delivering it to Miss Hs garage. She recognised the 
stress and frustration this wouldve caused Miss H and she acknowledged the time Miss H 
had spent chasing AIC for updates. But she didnt think AIC had done anything wrong by not 
reimbursing Miss H for the disputed personal items. She thought AIC were fair to ask for 
proof of purchase. And she also recognised when Miss Hs car was recovered, it was listed 
as having no personal items within it. Because of this, she didnt think she could reasonably 
ask AIC to cover the costs of the disputed items. So, she thought the offer £150 AIC made 
was a fair one and didnt think they needed to do anything more. 
Miss H didnt agree. She thought it was unfair for her to be left out of pocket as she no 
longer had the personal items she felt were in the car when it was recovered. So, she 
wanted a higher compensation amount to recognise this. As Miss H didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss H. I can appreciate how 
upsetting it wouldve been to have found her car smoking from under the bonnet. And I dont 
doubt she made a claim on her insurance policy with the expectation that AIC would manage 
her claim effectively in a way that wouldnt cause further frustration. And, as AIC have 
already admitted, they failed to do so on this occasion. So, Ive considered what I think AIC 
did wrong and whether the offer they made fairly compensated Miss H for this.
Its not in dispute that there were delays in arranging the delivery of Miss Hs car to her 
garage. AIC have accepted they failed to notify P about Miss Hs request, and this led to 
delays in her claim. And theyve accepted they failed to keep Miss H adequately updated 
which I think is shown by the number of times Miss H had to contact AIC for updates. So, Im 
satisfied AIC should compensate Miss H for the inconvenience and upset the delays caused 
her. 
But Im aware this isnt the only complaint Miss H has. Miss H also believes personal items 
left in her car when it was recovered have been taken. And she wants reimbursement for 
these items. 
AIC have confirmed Ps report when the car was collected stated there were no personal 
items in the car. And Ive seen both P and the agent used to transport Miss Hs car to her 
garage state they didnt see or take any items from it. AIC have also asked Miss H to provide 
proof of purchase for the items, but Miss H has been unable to provide this. So, Ive had to 
consider, based on the evidence I have available, whether I am able to definitively say that 
items were taken, and that AIC should be held responsible for the financial loss this has 
caused Miss H. And I dont think I can.
While I dont dispute Miss Hs version of events, she hasnt been able to provide proof of 
purchase. So, I dont have any evidence to show Miss H owned the items she feels were 
taken or how much these were worth. And neither P, AIC or the recovery agents say they 
saw any of these items in the car. When making a decision and considering any offer a 
business such as AIC should make, I have to ensure it remains fair to both parties. Im only 
able to recommend they refund Miss H if I have evidence to show they did something wrong. 
In this situation, I have no tangible evidence to show personal items were taken from the car. 
So, I dont think it would be fair for me to say AIC, or P acting on AICs behalf, did anything 
wrong that they should compensate Miss H for. Also, Im unable to ask AIC to do something that may leave Miss H in a better position that 
she wouldve been in. In this situation, if I was to ask AIC to reimburse Miss H without proof 
of purchase for the items, there is a possibility Miss H would be left in a better financial 
position. So, this is something Im not able to consider.
Im aware Miss H was also unhappy with the condition of her boot. But P say they didnt 
enter the boot when assessing the car. And due to the circumstances of the accident, where 
Miss Hs car caught fire, I think its reasonable to assume some damage was likely to have 
occurred throughout the car. So, I dont think Im able to say the mess Miss H says was 
present in the boot was the fault of P. And because of this, I dont think I can fairly say AIC 
should be held responsible for this.
So, Ive then considered what I think a fair compensation amount should be to acknowledge 
the delays Miss H experienced, and the inconvenience this caused. AIC offered Miss H £150 
to recognise this. And this offer is similar to what I wouldve recommended, had it not already 
been made. Because of this, I dont think AIC needs to offer anything more. I understand 
Miss H feels the offer should be higher, but I think the £150 fairly addressed the length of the 
delay and the amount of times she needed to chase AIC for updates and the time this 
wouldve taken.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss H was hoping for. And I do appreciate this doesnt 
help her feelings of upset and frustration surrounding the items she believes were taken 
without consent. But I hope this decision explains clearly why Ive been unable to consider 
that further in this situation.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint about Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman