DRN-4136362
The complaint
Mr B complains about Santander UK Plcs response to a claim he sought to make against it 
through the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (section 75).
What happened
Mr B used his Santander credit card to pay a third party S for legal services in relation to a 
claim brought against him. Following the court judgment Mr B expressed dissatisfaction with 
the services S and the appointed advocates provided. He made a section 75 claim against 
Santander seeking recovery of the fees hed paid.
Santander declined to meet Mr Bs claim. It said there was insufficient evidence that S had 
breached its contract with Mr B in relation to the services it had provided to him. Santander 
also said Mr S hadnt sought to mitigate any loss by exhausting Ss complaint process, which 
included escalating his complaint to the Legal Ombudsman. Mr B was unhappy with 
Santanders response and referred his concerns to us.
Our investigator felt Santander had responded appropriately to Mr Bs complaint. She didnt 
think it was unreasonable for Santander to have asked Mr B to provide independent 
verification in support of his claim, given the assertion hed made, which related to whether S 
had provided its services with reasonable care and skill. She considered the bank to have 
taken a reasonable stance in saying it would reconsider its position if Mr B were to provide 
any such independent evidence.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for this review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious that Mr Bs requirement for legal services, and the payment he made to S to 
secure those services, arose in connection with a claim he was facing (and a counter-claim 
he sought to make) in a business capacity. The court papers confirm this. Mr Bs credit card 
was provided to him in a personal capacity, and this could be relevant to Santanders 
liability. However, that isnt the basis on which Santander has declined to meet Mr Bs claim, 
which is the focus of his current complaint.
It is important, though, that I consider the capacity in which Mr B is acting in bringing his 
complaint to us. Our rules require that a complaint is brought by or on behalf of an eligible 
complainant. There are several ways in which someone might meet the definition of an 
eligible complainant, which are set out in DISP 2.7 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook. The FCA Handbook can be found on its website.
The key definitions relevant to Mr Bs complaint are those of consumer, micro-enterprise and 
small business. A consumer is defined as an individual acting for purposes which are wholly 
or mainly outside that individuals trade, business, craft, or profession. The circumstances of 
Mr Bs claim, and the services he obtained from S using his credit card are directly connected 
with his business. I dont think the fact Mr B held his card in a personal capacity means he can 
properly considered to be a consumer for the purposes of the complaint hes brought.
Ive no reason to think, though, that Mr B fails to meet either the definition of a micro-enterprise 
or of a small business. For example, Ive seen nothing that suggests he employed 10 or more 
persons, let alone the upper limit of 50 persons mentioned in the small business definition. 
Similarly, Ive not seen any evidence that Mr Bs turnover or his annual balance sheet exceeded 
the relevant financial limits when he referred his complaint to Santander. And Mr B appears to 
have been operating as a sole trader, rather than running a limited company that might exist 
separately from him as a legal entity.
With this in mind, Im satisfied Mr B meets the definition of an eligible complainant in our rules.
Ive highlighted my consideration of this aspect, however, as it has some bearing on the claim 
Mr B sought to bring against Santander. The effect of section 75 is that if Mr B has a claim 
against S either in misrepresentation or in breach of contract, he has a like claim against 
Santander. Mr B hasnt argued misrepresentation; his claim is that S failed to provide its services 
with reasonable care and skill.
As I understand it, this would amount to a claim in breach of contract as a term implied into his 
contract with S under section 13 of the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982. Although a 
similar provision exists within the Consumer Rights Act 2015, for reasons Ive already gone into, I 
cant see that Mr B would meet the definition of a consumer as set out in that Act1.
Im conscious Mr B has highlighted in his correspondence various aspects of Ss activity with 
which he is unhappy. Santander hasnt sought to dispute this. Rather, it doesnt consider what 
Mr B has provided meets the threshold of demonstrating a breach of contract. The banks 
response demonstrates it considered Mr Bs claim and gave reasons for rejecting it.
Generally, relevant to whether a person has met the standard of reasonable care and skill are 
things like industry standards or codes of practice. In relation to S, the provision of legal services 
is regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA).
I dont think its unreasonable for Santander to decline to meet Mr Bs claim, given that hed 
merely set out the reasons he was dissatisfied with Ss services. The question of whether that 
dissatisfaction meets the significantly higher bar of being a breach of contract is one that is 
properly determined by reference to objective standards such as those set out by the SRA.
Ive not seen anything in Mr Bs submissions that suggests he has applied those standards to the 
service he received from S. Nor does he appear to have sought or provided opinion from a 
suitably qualified independent source to demonstrate his claim. Santander has said it is willing to 
reconsider its position in the event Mr B does provide such evidence, which I think is fair.
I dont share Santanders view that Mr B is obliged to pursue his claim against S and mitigate any 
loss through its complaint process. Under section 75 Mr Bs claim exists against S and 
Santander jointly and severally. He can pursue either, or both, in relation to his claim. However, I 
do take on board that such action might help to clarify the strength of Mr Bs claim. I cant advise 
him in this respect. I can only leave it to Mr B to decide what, if any, further action he takes to 
progress his claim.
My final decision
Overall, Im satisfied with the steps Santander UK Plc has taken thus far in dealing with Mr Bs 
1 See Chapter 1, Section 2(3) of the Consumer Rights Act 2015section 75 claim. Because of this, Im not upholding his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman