DRN-4013232
The complaint
Mr S complains about the cash settlement Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has offered 
him to repair his car after claims made on his motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy that 
it hasnt inspected further mechanical damage. He wants a settlement to pay for the repair of 
his car. 
What happened
Mr Ss car was damaged in two separate incidents, and he made claims on his policy. 
Admiral decided to pay him cash in lieu of repairing his car. But Mr S said the amount 
offered wasnt sufficient to repair his car. He provided three estimates from garages to show 
this. Mr S was also unhappy that Admiral wouldnt instruct an independent assessor to 
inspect further damage to his car that he thought was accident-related. He paid for an 
estimate for this further mechanical repair. 
our investigators view
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral 
was entitled to pay cash in lieu of repairs. But she thought the amount offered should be 
sufficient to pay for the repairs to be made. She thought Admiral should increase its offer to 
Mr S to an amount within the range of the two lowest estimates hed obtained. 
And she thought Admiral should have instructed an independent assessor as Mr S had 
provided evidence that the damage could be accident-related. She thought it should now pay 
for this repair and reimburse Mr S for the cost of the estimate. She thought Admiral should 
provide Mr S with a courtesy car or cover his travel costs whilst the repairs were made. And 
she thought Admiral should pay Mr S £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Admiral replied that its cash in lieu payment was the claim settlement so it wouldnt provide a 
courtesy car or cover travel costs whilst repairs were made. It said it had already offered to 
increase the settlement to an amount it had negotiated with one of the garages that had 
provided Mr S with an estimate. 
Admiral said this included a geometry check that would show whether there was further 
accident-related mechanical damage. And it would have then dealt with this. So it said it 
didnt need to appoint an independent assessor. But Admiral said it was willing to pay a 
supplementary amount for the work at the rates it had negotiated with Mr Ss garage as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
However, Mr S said this wasnt sufficient to pay for the repairs. Mr S asked for an 
Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Admiral on 15 February 2023. I summarise my findings:
I could understand that Mr S wanted his car repaired. Its now a year since the accident and I 
couldnt see that this had been fully done yet. I could understand that this must have been 
frustrating for him. Mr S thought that, as his claims were non-fault and so Admiral would 
recover its outlay from the other insurer, then it should pay for all the repairs that he said 
needed to be made. But I didnt agree. Admiral has a duty to justify its outlay for Mr Ss 
repairs and to ensure that they are reasonable.
I could see that there had been some confusion about Mr Ss complaint as Admiral recorded 
two separate claims for the two incidents involving one other driver. The damage to Mr Ss 
car was in the same area and overlapped. So the repairer couldnt separate out what was 
covered under each claim. Admiral then decided to pay cash in lieu of repairs, as its entitled 
to do by the policys terms and conditions. 
Mr S was unhappy with the settlement Admiral offered that was based on the estimate 
provided by its approved repairer. It asked Mr S to provide an estimate from his own garage. 
It thought this was inflated. So Mr S provided two further estimates. Admirals engineer 
reviewed these and then negotiated a lower repairs cost for all the identified repairs with the 
garage that had provided the lowest quote. This reduced the repairs costs from £6,069.83 
including VAT to £5,481.82 including VAT. 
Admiral had already paid Mr S £3,545.70, and so it then paid him £1,936.12 more for his 
repairs some six weeks after the claim was made. As this sum was sufficient for the garage 
to carry out the identified repairs to the paint and bodywork, then I thought that was fair and 
reasonable. And so I didnt require Admiral to increase this. 
I thought Mr S could then have had his repairs made and so mitigated his losses. And so I 
couldnt reasonably hold Admiral responsible for Mr S driving his damaged car for many 
months. 
Mr S was also concerned that there were mechanical problems with the steering resulting 
from the incidents. Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a 
vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance 
companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an 
insurance company has considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its 
decision to not pay for additional repairs.
Admiral said that it hadnt discounted that mechanical damage could have been caused to 
Mr Ss car by the incidents, but it asked for evidence to show this. It said that when it 
negotiated the reduced repairs costs with Mr Ss garage, it also included a geometry check. 
It said that this would identify any mechanical issues that were accident-related. It said it 
would then consider this evidence and supplementary costings as an additional cash in lieu 
settlement. But I couldnt see that Admiral explained this to Mr S at the time or that the 
geometry check was done. 
Mr S provided a vehicle health check report, costing £124, from a dealers garage that noted 
issues with the nearside wheel bearing and shock absorber. The report said, "Technician 
advises that there is a high chance that the shock absorber and wheel bearing are faulting 
as result of the crash damage". Admiral reviewed this, but it didnt consider it provided 
sufficient evidence to justify further repairs. And I agreed as this was an opinion, and it didnt 
explain the link between the reported damage and the incidents. 
Mr S thought Admiral should appoint an independent assessor to resolve matters. We think 
this is a reasonable way to resolve disputes about repairs. But Admiral disagreed as it said it 
didnt dispute that there may be accident-related mechanical damage. It just wanted 
evidence of this. And it thought the geometry test and any further estimate would show this. 
Admiral gave Mr S two options. It said that if any mechanical issues were identified following 
the geometry check then it would consider a further cash settlement based on separate 
supplementary costs and evidence for this. Or, as a gesture of goodwill, it said it would pay for the mechanical repairs listed in the health 
check that Mr S had provided, but at the labour rates for the cheaper garage. This would 
lead to a further settlement of £468.43 including VAT. 
I thought these were two reasonable resolutions to Mr Ss concerns. And I thought Admiral 
had justified its decision about the mechanical repairs. But I also thought it should have 
communicated better with Mr S about this. I thought this led to Mr S incurring the cost of the 
health check and so I thought Admiral should reimburse this cost. And I thought Mr S had 
been put to some trouble and caused upset by Admirals handling of his claim. And I thought 
it should pay him £150 compensation for this, in keeping with our published guidance. 
But I didnt think Admiral was responsible for Mr Ss travel costs or needed to provide him 
with a courtesy car whilst repairs were made. This was because I thought Admiral hadnt 
deprived Mr S of the opportunity to use its approved repairers. Rather, it had decided, in 
keeping with the policys terms and conditions, to offer a cash in lieu payment in settlement 
of his claim.
Subject to any further representations from Mr S and Admiral, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to uphold this complaint about the mechanical repairs to his car. I intended to 
require Admiral to honour its offer of options for dealing with these, to reimburse Mr S £124 
for his health check and to pay him £150 compensation for his trouble and upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral replied that it agreed with my provisional decision. But Mr S replied that I hadnt 
asked Admiral to increase its offers to the minimum amounts he said were required to make 
the repairs to his car, £6,000 and £900. Mr S also said that he hadnt received his two £400 
policy excesses back. He was also concerned that the quotes for repairs were now over a 
year old, and it would now cost more to repair his car.  
Mr S thought Admiral should pay him the amounts quoted by the garages to repair his car. 
But, as Ive said above, I disagree. This is because Admiral had negotiated a price with one 
of his garages to carry out the repairs to the body and paintwork. It paid this amount to Mr S. 
And I thought this was fair and reasonable as it would allow Mr S to have the repairs made. 
Turning to the mechanical repairs, I thought Admiral had given Mr S two reasonable options 
to resolve this dispute. I cant see that Mr S has provided any additional evidence that I 
should consider. So I still think Admirals offers are fair and reasonable. I think its for Mr S to 
decide which to accept. In terms of the cost of the mechanical repairs, this was calculated on 
the same rates as those negotiated by Admiral with the garage that provided the lowest 
repair quote. So I think thats fair and reasonable. 
Mr S had two claims and therefore his policy excess was due to be paid twice. So I cant 
require Admiral to refund this amount. This is an uninsured loss and Mr S may be able to get 
this refunded by the other drivers insurer as his claims were non-fault. 
Mr S said repair costs will have increased in the time since he first made his claims. But we 
expect consumers to reasonably mitigate their losses. And Mr S could have had his cars 
bodywork repaired once Admiral made its payments to him, six weeks after the incidents. 
But he didnt and I cant reasonably hold Admiral responsible for this. 
Mr S wanted an independent assessment of his car. But its now over a year since the 
incidents and I think it would be difficult to establish what is incident-related. Also, as Ive 
said above, Admiral provided Mr S with a reasonable alternative to this. In summary, after considering Mr Ss submission, I can see no reason to change my 
provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do the following:
1. To resolve Mr Ss concerns about the mechanical damage to his car, either 
a. pay him £468.43 as a cash in lieu payment or, if Mr S prefers, 
b. consider and review any mechanical issues identified following the geometry 
check and pay Mr S a further cash settlement based on separate supplementary 
costs and evidence for this repair.
2. Reimburse Mr S £124 for the cost of the vehicle health check report.
3. Pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling 
of his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman