DRN-3696932
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice he received in 1996 when it was recommended that he 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. Mr W, via his professional representative, says that advice was 
unsuitable.
The advice was provided by business which Sesame Limited in responsible for answering 
complaints about. So, for simplicity, in this decision Ill mainly refer to Sesame.
What happened
Mr W says he was approached and offered advice in relation to his pension.
At the time Mr W was 29, married and employed. He had benefits in a DB scheme pension 
that hed accrued with a former employer. Hed stopped working for that employer around 
October 1994.
The party providing the advice commissioned a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report in 
December 1995. The report recorded that the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
Mr Ws DB scheme was £12,717.27. It said the benefits due under the DB scheme would 
continue to increase until retirement, noted a retirement age of 60 and estimated the annual 
pension the DB scheme would provide as well as the spouses pension if Mr W predeceased 
his wife after retirement. In the event Mr W passed away before retirement, a lump sum 
payment  estimated to be £1,133  would be due to Mrs W. The report also set out the 
critical yield  the annual growth rate required of a new pension to allow Mr W to purchase 
equivalent benefits that would match the guaranteed benefits of his DB scheme at 
retirement.
On 4 January 1996 the adviser recommended that Mr W transfer his pension benefits into a 
personal pension. In a letter to Mr W it said the reasons why the investment was 
recommended were recorded in the financial planning profile he and the adviser had 
completed together. A copy of which is unfortunately unavailable. The letter said though, in 
short, the analysis showed that Mr Ws pension would need to grow at a rate of 9.59% to 
match the value of his DB scheme. It did note one disadvantage was that if this rate was not 
achieved Mr W might not match what the DB scheme already provided. But it said 
transferring achieved the flexibility a personal pension provided through phased and 
drawdown facilities  something Mr W was interested in. And that a personal pension was 
selected over a section 32 policy because it offered more flexibility. Mr Ws risk profile was 
said to be varied but speculative and the letter said that the investments selected gave 
balance and a spread of risk.
Mr W complained to Sesame in 2020, via his representative, about the suitability of the 
transfer advice. The representative said that the advice wasnt in his interests. They said 
Mr W had a low attitude to risk, low capacity for loss and no investment experience at the 
time of the advice. He had no need to make a decision about transferring at the time given 
the length of time until he intended to retire. The transfer was recommended on the basis it 
would provide much better returns, but the adviser hadnt been clear how much the pension 
would have to grow by to match his existing benefits. And it hadnt been made clear to him 
that hed be giving up guaranteed benefits by transferring nor had the value of those benefits 
been explained. So, overall, the representative thought the advice Mr W had received was 
negligent.
In response, Sesame said it was unable to consider Mr Ws complaint as it had been made 
too late according to the rules set by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Unhappy with this, Mr W brought his complaint to us. Another ombudsman considered the 
matter of whether we have jurisdiction to look into the complaint. They decided the complaint 
had been made in time, so we can consider it. 
An Investigator then looked into the merits of the complaint. Having done so, he didnt think it 
should be upheld. He noted what the representative had said about Mr W having a low 
attitude to risk, but felt the information from the time, which said he had a speculative 
approach to risk, was more likely to be accurate given the amount of time that had passed. 
And with that attitude to risk in mind, the Investigator felt, based on the accepted 
assumptions at the time of the advice, it was reasonable of the adviser to conclude that 
enough growth could be achieved for Mr W to receive greater benefits from a personal 
pension. So, he didnt think the advice was unsuitable. 
Mr W disagreed. His representative reiterated that he was not willing to take risk with his 
pension so they didnt agree that the assumption sufficient growth could be achieved was 
reasonable. They said it was not appropriate for Mr W to be advised to give up guaranteed 
benefits for ones that were dependent on investment return and still felt that the advice was 
unsuitable. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
As I mentioned, Sesame previously said Mr Ws complaint was brought too late for our 
Service to consider it. I dont intend to revisit that, given an ombudsman has already given a 
decision explaining why they were satisfied Mr W brought this complaint in time, other than 
to say having reviewed the available information I agree with the decision reached by the 
previous ombudsman. So, as Im satisfied we can look into this complaint, Ive considered all 
the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time the 
advice was given. It isnt appropriate to apply todays regulations retrospectively. And its also worth noting that 
the investment climate today is very different to that which existed at the time of the advice 
here. So, what may have been reasonable assumptions at the time are likely to be different 
to those that would be made now. And with hindsight those past assumptions may appear to 
be inaccurate. But Im looking at whether the actions of the adviser in recommending the 
transfer were, in my view, fair and reasonable at the time the advice was given  not if the 
recommendation was suitable based on what we now know and the rules that apply today. 
And its also worth reiterating that Im looking at the circumstances of Mr Ws individual 
complaint.
The advice was provided in January 1996. At that time the adviser was regulated by the 
Personal Investment Authority (PIA). Based on the information Ive seen I understand the 
advising business was likely to have been a previous member of the Financial 
Intermediaries, Managers and Brokers Regulatory Association (FIMBRA). When the PIA 
took responsibility for FIMBRA businesses in 1994, they adopted the FIMBRA rules and 
guidance. These adopted rules applied at the time of the advice in this case. And, in short, 
the adviser was required to ensure the recommendation it made was in Mr Ws best interests 
having regard for his circumstances and alternative options.
The advice was given over 26 years ago and the documentary evidence available from the 
time is limited. But I dont think that is unreasonable, given how long ago these events took 
place. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
It wasnt unusual at the time, particularly given the financial climate, for consumers to 
consider whether they could achieve better returns on their investments. And I think that was 
likely one of the objectives discussed between Mr W and the adviser. The letter explaining 
the reasons for the recommendation talked about the returns that would be required for 
Mr W to improve on his existing benefits. And in the complaint from his representative they 
said one of the things that he was told at the time was that hed be able to achieve much 
better returns. Based on this Im satisfied on balance that achieving better returns and 
improving on the benefits due under the DB scheme were discussed. And I think it is likely 
this was something Mr W was interested in and was at least part of the reason why he took 
advice.
Mr W has said that he was not willing to take any risk with his DB scheme pension, he had a 
low capacity for loss and no investment experience. But the information from the point of 
sale recorded that he had a varied but speculative attitude to risk. And Sesame says this 
indicated he was willing to take a lot of risk.
Ive taken on board Mr W, and his representatives, comments about his attitude to risk at the 
time of the advice. But I also have to take into account that these comments were made over 
two and a half decades after the advice took place. So, are in my view likely somewhat 
influenced by hindsight. 
At the time of the advice Mr W was 29. So, he had a significant amount of time until he was 
due to retire. I understand, and his representative said in the complaint to Sesame, that he 
was employed. So, I think it was reasonable to expect hed continue to make other 
provisions for his retirement until this took place. Meaning that while the DB scheme benefits 
likely represented a significant portion of the provisions he had at the time, he reasonably 
expected to have other provisions when he retired  given how much of his working life 
remained. The CETV was also reasonably modest. So, taking his circumstances at the time into account, I think Mr W was likely willing to, and 
had the capacity to, take risk with his pension fund at the time of the advice  as recorded by 
the adviser when explaining its recommendation. I dont think that is affected by his lack of 
prior investment experience. And Im also conscious, while Mr W now disagrees with this 
categorisation, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr W disputed how his attitude to risk was 
categorised at the time, even though this was summarised in the recommendation provided 
to him.
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' 
for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at 
retirement, noted at the time as expected to be age 60, was quoted in the recommendation 
letter as 9.59% per year. And this was sent to Mr W, in my view making him aware of the 
growth required, along with a warning that, if not achieved, he may not match what he 
already had. This critical yield compares with the discount rate of 10.4% per year for 30 
years to retirement in this case.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 12%, the middle 
projection rate 9%, and the lower projection rate 6%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, the 
speculative attitude to risk recorded by the adviser (which as Ive already explained I think 
on balance was accurate) and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr W 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the discount rate, regulators 
projections and information recorded about Mr W and his attitude to risk, I think it was 
reasonable for the adviser to conclude that the critical yield could be achieved and 
exceeded. So, I think it was reasonable for the adviser to believe Mr W was likely to receive 
benefits of a higher overall value than the DB scheme at retirement as a result of transferring 
and investing in line with that attitude to risk. And the investments recommended appear 
consistent with that attitude to risk.
It is true that the additional objective of improved flexibility wasnt something Mr W likely 
needed to make a decision about at the time  given how long he had to retirement. But 
given that the recommendation also achieved this, and bearing in mind what Ive said about 
the returns appearing achievable, I dont think the recommendation to transfer out of the DB 
scheme was unsuitable for Mr W, based on the information available to the adviser at the 
time.
Mr Ws representatives have said he shouldnt have been advised to give up a guaranteed 
income and take on investment risk. But again, the letter setting out the reasons for the 
advice did note that if the required growth wasnt achieved, the new pension may not match 
the existing benefits. Which I think made Mr W aware there was risk involved. And given I 
think it was reasonable for the adviser to conclude Mr W was likely to be better off in 
retirement, and the purpose of a pension is to provide for the holders retirement, I think it 
was reasonable for the adviser to believe that transferring was likely to be in Mr Ws best 
interests. So, with that in mind, I dont think Sesame needs to take any action here.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman