DRN-2539685
The complaint
Mrs Z complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF).   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BPF, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs Z acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BPF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs Z. The car here was 
around four and a half years old and had completed about 15,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
Mrs Z first reported problems with the transmission in April 2019 only a few weeks after 
shed taken receipt of the car. The relevant legislation says that if a fault is discovered within 
the first six months it is to be assumed it was present when the car was supplied unless the 
business can show otherwise. I can see that the garage failed to identify any fault with the 
car and that it was referred for the same problem again in June 2019 and in November 2019 
before a new gearbox was eventually fitted in January 2020. So, I dont agree with the 
business when they suggest the onus was on Mrs Z to demonstrate the problem was 
present from the beginning. I think it was their responsibility as there appears to have been a 
consistent fault with the transmission on this car from the beginning. And I dont think a 
reasonable person would think a car of this age and mileage would be of satisfactory quality 
if it needed a new gearbox after such a short period of time.
BPF havent accepted that the current fault is the same fault. They assert that the gearbox 
replacement fixed the issue, but I think the weight of evidence suggests otherwise. BPF 
were prepared to pay for a more detailed diagnostic from Mrs Zs choice of garage. That 
garage has identified that the car requires a new rear differential and Haldex unit and Im 
persuaded these are likely to be the root of the problem Mrs Z has been reporting. I say that 
because I think Mrs Z has consistently complained of the same type of problem and because 
there was a limited amount of time from when the gearbox was replaced to when she 
complained the gearbox replacement hadnt worked, for a new issue to arise. Ive 
researched the matter briefly on the internet and it seems that problems with the rear 
differential and Haldex units could create a judder in the transmission, such as the one Mrs Z 
has been complaining about.
  
Putting things right
So, I think there has been a problem with this car from the beginning. The relevant 
legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair a problem that is present or 
developing when the car is supplied to the consumer. But here I think BPF has had that 
opportunity and that the gearbox repair has most likely failed.
In those circumstances BPF should now allow Mrs Z to reject the car and they should end 
the finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mrs Z has paid and they should add 8% interest to that 
refund as Mrs Z has been deprived of that money.
Whilst Mrs Z has clearly been able to drive the car I think her enjoyment of the vehicle will 
have been impacted by the fault that caused the car to judder. In those circumstances BPF 
should refund 5% of the payments shes made towards the car since she first reported the 
issue in April 2019. 
I think Mrs Z has had reasonable use of the car, but shes clearly been inconvenienced by 
having to report the issue to different garages and to pursue her complaint through this 
service when I think BPF could have resolved it earlier. In those circumstances I would 
agree that BPF should pay her £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
theyve caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited to:
end the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mrs Z;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
refund 5% of all finance instalments that have been paid in respect of the lack of 
enjoyment Mrs Z has experienced;
pay Mrs Z £150 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Zs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman