DRN-3282095
The complaint
Mr H complains about the information given by Acromas Insurance Company Limited when 
he claimed for a damaged windscreen on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Hs car windscreen got a chip, so he went to a windscreen repairer. He was told, due to 
the weather, the chip could get worse and it was recommended he repair it immediately. He 
therefore called his insurer to claim on his policy as the repairer said it had worked with his 
insurer. 
When Mr H spoke with Acromas he was told he would need to use its approved repairer in 
order to utilise the free chip repair service. Because of this agreed to use the approved 
repairer and his windscreen was repaired eight days later. Unfortunately, the repair failed 
and therefore Mr H needed a replacement windscreen and his unhappy about paying the 
£75 excess. Mr H wasnt happy about the failed repair and having to pay an excess and 
complained to Acromas. 
Acromas reviewed the complaint and upheld it. It said during a call Mr H had with them hed 
been given incorrect information about using a non-approved repairer. Acromas offered Mr H 
£25 compensation to apologise for the error. Mr H didnt think this was enough and brought 
his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it was upheld. He found that 
Acromas hadnt provided correct information to Mr H when he called to make a claim and 
had been transferred to the approved repairer when he hadnt wanted to be. Because of this 
our investigator recommended Acromas increase its compensation by £75 to £100. 
Acromas didnt agree, it said Mr H had agreed to the approved repairer repairing his 
windscreen and felt the £25 compensation was sufficient for the incorrect information given. 
It also said the issue should be taken up with the approved repairer as the additional 
damage to the windscreen is likely caused by them not being able to carry out the repair for 
eight days.  
As Acromas didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions say for a windscreen claim Mr H is liable for a £75 excess. 
As this is in the terms and conditions it wouldnt be fair to tell Acromas to waive it. However, I 
have considered whether Acromas did what it was supposed to when Mr H called up to 
claim on his policy. 
Acromas agreed that during the call Mr H wasnt provided correct information about his 
policy and using a non-approved repairer. Ive therefore considered whether its offer of 
compensation is enough. And Im not persuaded it is. I say this because Mr H had multiple 
calls with Acromas and rather than having his windscreen repaired that day, had to arrange 
another appointment and wait eight days for the repair. 
I think by Acromas providing incorrect information during the call it prevented Mr H making a 
decision on which course of action he would like to take. Taking into account all of the 
circumstances Im satisfied that £100 compensation is a fair and reasonable amount to 
compensate Mr H for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by the incorrect 
information he was given during the call. Therefore, Acromas needs to increase its 
compensation from £25 to £100. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
Acromas Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr H a total of £100 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman