DRN-3791960
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr W complain that Acromas Insurance Company Limited have delayed and 
provided poor customer service when dealing with their no-fault claim which has severely 
impacted them.   
   
What happened
In January 2022 Mrs Hs neighbour damaged her parked car after skidding. 
The car was recovered by Acromas for assessment and repair and a hire car was provided. 
After Mrs H collected the car in February she found that it was not repaired properly, and it 
wasnt roadworthy. She contacted Acromas who said they would look into it. 
The car wasnt re examined until August and it was then written off.  Mrs H and Mr W spent 
a lot of time dealing with Acromas between February and August with no progress. 
Although a hire car was provided, there were gaps when Mrs H was without a car. She says 
this was stressful as Mr W is ill and he needed to attend hospital for regular treatment, and 
she wasnt able to get him there.  
In their final response Acromas accepted they had not provided the service that was to be 
expected, and they offered £500 as compensation. 
Mrs H and Mr W were unhappy with Acromass response and brought their complaint to us. 
Acromas increased their offer of compensation to £750 whilst the complaint was with us.  
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs H and Mr Ws complaint and he has 
recommended that Acromas pay £1200 as compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Acromas agreed to pay £1000, but not £1200, and so the case has come to me to review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that all the expenses and the claim have now been settled, and so Im only 
considering Acromass customer service failings, and looking at what the appropriate award 
should be for any distress and inconvenience caused by the failings. 
I can see that Mrs Hs car was originally recovered by Acromas on 12 January 2022. And 
was returned by the repairers on 18 February 2022. That was a reasonable length of time for 
a repair and should have been the end of the matter. 
However, it wasnt. The repair hadnt been done properly, and the car wasnt safe to drive. 
Mrs H reported the defects to Acromas straight away, and they agreed to complete 
rectification works, but then nothing happened.
A hire car wasnt provided until 10 March, leaving Mrs H without a car for several weeks. 
This caused her distress and inconvenience because her partner was seriously ill,  
undergoing surgery and regular hospital treatments which she needed to take him to.
 
Without a car Mrs H and Mr W were dependent on others for lifts, or taxis and public 
transport, which was not really appropriate given Mr Ws health. This added extra stress to 
what was already a difficult and emotional time for them. They didnt always have the money 
to pay for taxis and there was one occasion on which public transport had to be used 
following surgery, which caused extra complications for Mr W. 
Acromas advised Mrs H to keep all her receipts for transport, which she did totalling £688. 
However, after she sent them into Acromas for reimbursement in March, Acromas lost them,  
which meant further phone calls and distress until Acromas eventually agreed to pay them 
without the receipts in September. This left Mrs H and Mr W out of pocket for 6 months at an 
emotionally and financially difficult time. 
Although the hire car was provided in March, Mrs Hs car wasnt collected, and Mrs H and Mr 
W spent several months chasing progress whilst nothing happened.  They made 52 calls 
and left a lot of messages, but calls went unreturned. In addition, the hire car company were 
chasing Mrs H for return of the car as Acromas didnt inform them of the extension to the 
hire, adding extra pressure to deal with that issue.
Although they had a hire car, Mrs H and Mr W were unable to take their UK holiday, which 
was much needed after her Mr Ws treatment, because the conditions of the hire car did not 
allow dogs, and they had to take their dog with them. If the claim had been resolved sooner, 
this would not have been the case.   
  
Further inconvenience was caused in August when Acromas said that they couldnt find 
another repairer to take on the car, and asked Mrs H to find her own repairer. She spoke to 
several garages, but no one would take on the responsibility of repairing work that hadnt 
been done properly. Mrs H informed Acromas on 16 August 2022 and they then decided to 
write the car off. They advised Mrs H of this on 6 September which was the date they 
eventually paid the expenses. A settlement offer was then negotiated and paid In October.
Taking all of this into account, including the length of the delay in dealing with the claim 
properly, the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor repair and additional damage, 
the level of contact Mrs H had with Acromas, and the specific impact caused to them 
because of Mr Ws health issues, I am satisfied that a substantial award for distress and 
inconvenience is warranted. I note that Acromas have already offered £1000, but I dont 
think this is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused for the reasons I have 
given above. I agree with the investigator that a figure of £1200 more adequately represents 
a fair award. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Acromas should pay Mrs H and Mr W £1200 for distress and 
inconvenience.
 
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs H and Mr Ws complaint against Acromas and I am directing them to put 
things right as above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman