DRN-1622253
 
The complaint
Mr W says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold him a 
payment protection policy (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr W took out PPI in one of the banks branches in 2007 at the same time as he applied to 
re-mortgage. The policy gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover. He paid a 
monthly amount for it.
The adjudicator didnt recommend Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. Mr W disagreed so 
the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr W says he felt he had to take out PPI to get the mortgage, there was a hard sell. I cant 
know what was said in the meeting - the bank has provided a copy of the High Level Needs 
Analysis document which it says summarises what was discussed in the meeting. This 
shows Mr W wanted to protect his mortgage. His mortgage offer said You are not required 
to take out any insurance through Abbey and made clear only buildings insurance was a 
condition of the mortgage. Ive thought carefully about Mr Ws comments but I also have to 
consider how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what he recalls. On balance, I 
think Mr W was made aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and he chose to 
take it out. I cant find enough evidence to support his claim that he was pressured to do so. 
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check it was right for him. Based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time I think it was. Mr W was entitled to between 
three and six months sick pay but the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months in 
addition to his work benefits. Hes told us he had savings worth at least six months salary 
but the PPI would have allowed him to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not 
working, or to keep them intact for his future needs. Mr W was borrowing a large amount 
over money over a long period of time, secured against his home. Given the serious 
consequences of missing mortgage repayments, I think the PPI would have been useful for 
Mr W if he was sick or lost his job.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I dont think he wouldve been put off taking out the policy if he had received 
better information. I say this because Mr C was eligible for the policy given his circumstances at the time and the policys terms and conditions. He wasnt affected by any 
of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as those affecting people with pre-
existing medical conditions or certain types of employment contract. As he couldve 
benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely better information about the 
policys exclusions and limitations would have changed his decision to buy it. I dont know 
when the cost was first made clear to Mr W but the PPI was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. And he could cancel it without further cost if at any stage he no longer 
wanted it.
It follows I dont think Mr W has lost out because of the problems with this sale. Mr W has 
asked why he got a PPI refund on a loan he had but not on this mortgage, but I can only 
comment here on the individual merits of this case.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman