DRN-1466057
 
The complaint
The directors of F, a limited company, complain on Fs behalf that Allianz Insurance Plc 
declined to pay a claim under its motor trade insurance policy. Allianz declined the claim 
because they said F had failed to meet a condition of the policy. 
The directors of F are represented in this complaint by Fs insurance broker. 
 What happened
 In April 2019, a man posing as a prospective customer expressed an interest in a car that F 
was selling. He said he was also interested in a part exchange with his current car. He gave 
one of the directors his car keys, so it could be valued.
Fs director gave the man the key to the car he was interested in. The car was tightly 
surrounded by others, so Fs employees moved some of them so that the man could see the 
car properly and sit in it. He then stole the car by driving it away at speed. The car whose 
keys hed left behind also turned out to be stolen.  
F claimed on its motor trade insurance policy. But in June 2019, Allianz declined the claim. 
They said F had failed to meet one of the conditions precedent of the policy, which 
concerned removing the keys from its vehicles (the Keys Removal condition). 
Fs broker complained on Fs behalf to Allianz, making a number of arguments about the 
policy wording. Chiefly, he argued the Keys Removal clause was designed to exclude claims 
where firms had left the car unattended with the keys inside - which was different from the 
circumstances here. 
Allianz didnt uphold the complaint and continued to decline the claim for the same reason. 
So Fs broker referred the claim to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things, but didnt recommend upholding Fs complaint. He 
thought that Allianz had acted reasonably in rejecting the claim, because F had failed to 
comply with the policy terms. And he didnt agree with the brokers interpretation of the Key 
Removal condition. 
F disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Fs 
representative made the following points:
The background to the Key Removal condition was to stop traders leaving cars open 
or leaving the keys on top of the wheels. It wasnt designed for the circumstances 
Allianz was trying to apply it to. 
The condition referred to unoccupied vehicles. In this case, the vehicle was locked 
while unoccupied and the keys were removed. So F had complied with the condition. 
The word unoccupied wasnt defined in the policy. Motor policies usually used the word unattended and defined it as meaning an 
employee isnt in the vicinity. There were employees in the vicinity at the time of the 
theft. 
The policy contained Unaccompanied Demonstration cover. Allianz had 
subsequently relaxed the wording in this clause. Under this clause as amended, if the 
same circumstances applied but the customer said he wanted a test drive, then the 
claim would be covered. 
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm not going to uphold 
it. I realise this will come as a disappointment to the directors, so I'd like to explain why. 
Most of the arguments in this case concern the wording of the part of the policy Allianz has 
relied on to decline Fs claim. This was as follows:
"F/4043/3 KEYS REMOVAL
In respect of unoccupied Vehicles on The Premises, it is a condition precedent to 
liability that all points of access to the Vehicles are closed and secured by all the locks, 
windows fastenings and other protections and the Vehicle keys or key cards are 
removed unless the person in charge of the Vehicle is immediately beside that Vehicle 
and has only had to leave the keys or key cards in the Vehicle to enable work to be 
carried out. 
During Business Hours, Vehicle keys or key cards must be kept in a secure location. 
Outside Business Hours, said keys or key cards must be removed from The Premises 
or if kept on the Premises - placed in a locked safe or cabinet and its key or keys 
removed from The Premises or if the person responsible for their safe custody lives on 
The Premises, removed to that part of The Premises in which the person actually 
lives".
First, Ive looked at the policy documents to see whether I think this condition was sufficiently 
clear in the policy. In my view, the condition is fairly and clearly identified on the renewal 
schedule. And I dont find the wording to be misleading.  
F says that this condition was historically intended to exclude sales practices where keys 
were left in the car or in the wheel arch. I dont consider the origins of the condition to be 
particularly relevant. But nonetheless, the condition is in my view clearly designed to reduce 
risk of theft. And what has happened here is, it seems to me, a riskier practice than leaving 
the keys in the car. Here, theyve been handed to the thief, albeit under false pretences. 
Fs representative has also argued that the word unoccupied is ambiguous and undefined. 
Its true that there is no definition in the policy. That means that the word should be treated 
as having its natural or ordinary meaning. Fs argument is that the car was kept locked while 
empty. The keys were then given to the thief, who occupied it. I am not persuaded by this 
interpretation, since on this basis, any theft would result in the car being occupied and the 
condition would therefore never apply. I dont think this is a reasonable interpretation of 
something that is clearly meant as a safety measure by the insurer. The wording of the keys removal condition excludes the situation where an employee is 
immediately beside the vehicle. But having looked at the cctv footage, Im satisfied that this 
wasnt the case at the time of theft. 
Ive also considered the Unaccompanied Demonstration wording. But Im not persuaded that 
this helps F either. Even the less stringent version, which Allianz put in place in October 
2019, after the events complained of here, still requires the seller to confirm the identity of 
the driver by checking their driving licence and one other document and retain copies of the 
documents. Ive seen no evidence that these checks were done in this case. 
Fs evidence shows that there was no mention of a test drive in this case. So I dont think the 
Unaccompanied Demonstration clause applies. Ive thought about whether its unfair that if 
the thief had asked for a test drive, F could have provided him with the keys, moved the 
surrounding vehicles and he might have been covered. But I think that the requirement for 
identity documents to be inspected is a significant extra step for unaccompanied test drives. 
So I dont think the existence of the Unaccompanied Demonstration clause makes it unfair 
for Allianz to decline this claim. 
I can only sympathise with F's directors, who have been the victims of a particularly brazen 
crime. But that wasn't Allianz's fault. And for the reasons I've explained, I don't think that 
Allianz has acted unfairly in declining F's claim. 
 My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2020.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman