DRN-3890846
The complaint
Mr E complains about a letter Marsh Finance Ltd (MFL) sent him.
What happened
On 12 September 2022 MFL sent Mr E a settlement letter in respect of the finance 
agreement he held with it.
On 16 September 2022 Mr E contacted MFL to say he hadnt requested a settlement letter 
and he would like the matter investigated.
On 5 October 2022 MFL wrote to Mr E to confirm its settlement letter dated 
12 September 2022 had been sent in error and to offer its apologies. It also confirmed to 
Mr E that feedback had been provided to the relevant department and training, in due 
course, would be provided and that the letter had no bearing on the status of his agreement.
On 14 October 2022, and unhappy with MFLs response, Mr E referred the matter to our 
service for investigation.
Mr Es complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
having apologised MFL need do nothing further.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators view and said that receipt of the settlement letter 
dated 12 September 2022 had caused him stress, panic attacks and anxiety for which he 
should be fairly compensated.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind, so Mr Es complaint has been 
passed to me or review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator and 
for the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already been 
said.
I accept that Mr E would have been surprised at receiving the settlement letter dated 
12 September 2022 and that receipt of the same might have caused him some distress and 
inconvenience. 
But we're all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and its not unusual to 
experience a certain level of frustration and minor annoyance when dealing with financial 
businesses. So, for me to make a compensation award in favour of Mr E I need to be 
satisfied that the impact of MFLs error caused material distress and inconvenience rather 
than just minor distress and inconvenience.
And given how quickly MFL put Mr Es mind at rest that the letter had been sent in error and 
how quickly it apologised for the same, Im satisfied that it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
make an award in this case. 
For the sake of completeness, I would add that I note that Mr E says he is able to provide 
our service with a prescription showing that at the relevant time he was prescribed 
medication by his doctor. But without supporting medical evidence clearly showing why this 
medication was prescribed Im afraid this doesnt, in itself, help Mr E.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman