DRN-3957965
The complaint
Mr W complains that it was wrong of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF) to provide a loan so that he could purchase a holiday club 
membership (the product) without checking if he could afford it and then fail to accept 
liability for claims he made arising out of the sale.
The product is in the joint names of Mr W and Mrs P but Ive referred to Mr W alone in this 
decision because the loan is in his sole name - meaning hes the eligible complainant who 
can bring the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mr W is represented by a claims management company (CMC) but Ill refer (generally) to 
everything thats been said on his behalf as if Mr W said it himself, to keep things simple.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs P took out membership of a timeshare club with a supplier (that Ill call C) in 
April 2009. The purchase was funded with a fixed sum loan that Mr W took out with BPF on 
12 April 2009. Under the loan terms he agreed to pay back over £26,000 (including interest) 
over 120 months at around £400 a month. Mr W considers the product was mis-sold and 
they were treated unfairly. In September 2020 Mr W complained to BPF (via the CMC - that 
Ill refer to as S). In summary, he said:-
the product was misrepresented 
this sort of timeshare agreement is null and void under an EU Directive and the loan 
from BPF is also null and void due to breaches of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA) and the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR) 
BPF failed to carry out proper credit checks to ensure that he could afford to repay 
the loan; and 
he didnt know about problems with the product and finance until he received advice 
from his representatives so all claims were made within relevant time limits.
BPF didnt provide a final response initially and Mr W referred the matter to our service. We
contacted BPF and it said Mr Ws claims were rejected as they were raised too late under
the provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 (LA).
One of our investigators considered the evidence. He thought Mr W had six years (under the
LA) from purchase to bring a claim under section 75 (for misrepresentation or breach of
contract). And he had six years from 18 March 2011 to raise a claim under section 140A - as
the finance was fully settled on that date. As Mr W didnt contact BPF about the claims until
8 September 2020, the investigator thought it was reasonable for BPF decline the claims for
being outside of the LA time limits. And he didnt think those limits would likely be extended
in these particular circumstances. The investigator wasnt persuaded by arguments raised 
about the payment of commission or the loan agreement being voidable, as S suggested. He 
didnt think there was enough evidence to find the lending was unaffordable and he didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
BPF accepted the investigators recommendations overall but said the affordability complaint
falls outside the jurisdiction of this service - because it was raised too late under our rules -
and BPF objected to us looking into this. S made further detailed submissions on behalf of 
Mr W summarising why he didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter 
to be referred to an ombudsman.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. 
My reasons were a bit different to the investigators however and Id considered additional 
issues. I sent the parties a provisional decision on 26 January 2023 setting out what Id 
decided provisionally (and why) in order to give them the chance to make further 
submissions before I made my final decision. Ive set out my provisional findings below (in 
italics) and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision about the merits of
this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely
to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr Ws representatives have provided detailed submissions that make reference to various
regulations, legislation and caselaw (amongst other things). I have to take account of the law
and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good
industry practice, when I make my decision. And I want to assure Mr W if I dont address 
every point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered 
everything thats been said and sent to us but Im going to concentrate in this decision on 
what I think is relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
In its response to the investigators view, I note that S refers (at the start of the letter) to the
purchase made in April 2009 but then goes on to refer to a loan dated 28 August 2009 (for
the purchase of 1501 points). I think this is probably a typographical error and the relevant
loan here is account ending 0815 taken out in April 2009 (as detailed above). This is the loan
referred to in Ss original correspondence with this service and by BPF throughout. If Im
wrong about that however the parties should let me know in response to this provisional
decision.
Section 75 CCA
Under section 75 a borrower has an equal right to claim against a credit provider and a
supplier if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, in certain
circumstances. Mr W claims that misrepresentations were made here and I think sections 2
and 9 of the LA are relevant. Section 2 applies to a claim (founded in tort) for damages
under section 2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 and section 9 applies to causes of
action for sums recoverable under statute.
Both sections impose a limitation period of six years from the date that a cause of action
accrues. And Im satisfied the date on which the cause of action accrued in this case will be
the same as the date upon which the misrepresentation alleged under section 75 became
actionable  that is the date the damage is suffered. I think any relevant damage would have
been incurred when Mr W bought the product and took out the finance - amongst other
things, this was when he incurred any liability under the product agreement and paid for the
benefits which he says were misrepresented.
This means Mr W would have needed to bring any claim under section 75 within six years of
the date of the timeshare transaction  in April 2009. Im satisfied that more than six years
had passed before he contacted BPF in September 2020 and I think the period within whichhe had to bring an action under section 75 had probably expired by this point. So, I cant
reasonably conclude that it was wrong of BPF to decline the section 75 claim.
Section 140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I
think this is relevant law and Ive taken it into account.
Im satisfied that the time limit within which Mr W had to bring any relevant claim is six years
from the date the debtor-creditor relationship ended. Evidence supplied by BPF shows that
the finance was settled in March 2011 and, on the current evidence I think Mr W would have
needed to bring any claim under section 140A within six years of that date. I can see he
didnt raise this claim with BPF until 2020 and I think any right he had to bring such a claim
had probably expired by then. It follows Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for BPF to
decline Mr Ws section 140A claim.
I realise Mr W may feel its unfair that Ive referred in this decision to time limits that he was
unaware of. Im afraid lack of knowledge of relevant time limits isnt generally accepted as
grounds for extending limitation but Ive gone on to consider whether there may be other
grounds to do so.
Section 32 LA
Section 32 of the LA relates to the extension of time for starting an action if fraud, mistake or
concealment are found - or could, with reasonable diligence, have been discovered. Ive
given this some thought and, for the reasons set out below, Im not persuaded that section
32 helps Mr W in these particular circumstances.
It looks as if Mr G and Mrs P used this product not long after purchase. Ive seen a
statement they provided where they describe having difficulty booking holidays but they
managed to do so about a year after purchase. They say they contacted C on their return
because they were unhappy and subsequently decided to end the agreement. Given the 
nature of the misrepresentations alleged, I think Mr W is likely to have realised fairly early on 
that some things might have been misrepresented. I cant be certain thats the case but Im 
minded to find, on balance, its more likely than not he had enough information to be able to 
bring the relevant claims within the time limits referred to above. And I dont think its 
unreasonable to expect him to have done so.
Ive also considered the reference to commission that Mr W thinks BPF would have paid to
the supplier. As far as Im aware, the levels of commission normally paid in this situation (at
the relevant time) werent high enough to mean that BPF should have appreciated not telling
Mr W about any commission paid risked the debtor-creditor relationship being unfair under
section 140A. If any commission was paid (which is not certain) I think its unlikely to have
been more than 10%. I cant see that BPF would have breached any duty in making such a
payment. And Im not persuaded that BPF was under an obligation to disclose the amount of
any commission paid in these circumstances.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that the supplier was acting as agent to Mr W or owed him a
fiduciary duty in this situation. I dont think the suppliers role was to make an impartial or
disinterested recommendation. And Im not persuaded it was required to disclose any
commission (that may have been paid by BPF) to Mr W either.
In light of my provisional findings above, I dont think section 32 helps Mr W in these
particular circumstances. But, even if Im wrong about that, I consider if any commission was
paid it probably didnt exceed 10% and I dont think a court is likely to find this created anunfair debtor-creditor relationship, in any event.
Section 14A LA
Im not persuaded that section 14A of the LA (which provides for a second period in which a
claim for negligence can be made) applies here. Looking at what happened when Mr W
purchased the product and took out the finance (and having considered the relevant
documentation), I think there was an obligation to provide sufficient appropriate and timely
information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the loan.,
Im not persuaded a duty of care arose however - or advice was provided - that could give
rise to a claim to which this section could apply.
Was the loan agreement voidable?
Mr Ws representatives say the timeshare agreement was null and void, which means the
related loan from BPF was voidable and he now wishes to exercise his right to rescind it.
If the timeshare agreement was voidable its likely the related loan was also voidable - on the
recission of the agreement it was used to fund. This is something that could be considered
under a section140A and, as Ive explained above, I think that claim was brought too late.
This could however be a freestanding claim in its own right so Ive gone on to consider it
separately.
Among other things, Ive been referred to an EU Directive, some Spanish legislation and a
Spanish court judgment that S says shows that a timeshare which provides for a floating
week (or the ability to use points to book holidays with a provider) was a voidable
agreement. Im not persuaded thats right however and Ill explain why. S seems to accept 
the timeshare agreement is governed by English (not Spanish) law  and I dont think the 
Spanish judgment (which is about a different timeshare product, in any event) could be 
applied directly to the question of whether the contract is voidable under English law. 
I havent been asked to consider any specific part of the relevant EU Directive - or any other 
provision (in English or European law) that would point to Mr Ws timeshare being voidable. 
And, having considered the relevant legislation, rules and regulations, I cant see anything 
that would have the impact his representatives suggest. A recent House of Commons 
Library Briefing Paper, Timeshares: common problems faced by UK owners says a floating 
week or points based timeshare were basic timeshare models. They werent described as 
being problems in and of themselves. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded that the timeshare agreement or the loan are voidable here.
Our jurisdiction and the decision to lend
BPF says this part of Mr Ws complaint doesnt come within the jurisdiction of this service
because Mr W is complaining about events that took place in 2009 and it was more than six
years after that before he brought his complaint to us. The rules about the complaints we 
can consider are set out in the FCAs Handbook. These are known as the DISP rules. DISP 
2.8.2(2) provides (unless the failure to comply with the time limits was as a result of  
exceptional circumstances) that we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers it to us 
more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of, or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
Im satisfied the decision to lend was made at the point of sale in 2009. I cant reasonably
conclude that this part of Mr Ws complaint was brought to us within the six-year period set
out in the first part of DISP 2.8.2R as outlined above. So Ive gone on to consider the second
limb of DISP 2.8.2 (when Mr W knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause
for complaint) to see if this extended the time under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b). In the submissions it is suggested that Mr W first became aware he had cause for complaint in 2020 - when he 
sought professional advice. If the loan was unaffordable Id expect Mr W to have realised 
this much earlier - but I accept this isnt the same as Mr W knowing he had cause for 
complaint against BPF. 
On the current evidence, I cant be certain that Mr W knew (or ought reasonably to have 
known) that he had cause for complaint against BPF regarding affordability before he took 
advice in 2020. Im satisfied he brought this complaint to us within three years of that (in 
November 2020) and Ive gone on to consider this.
Affordable lending
Mr W says he wasnt asked about his income and expenditure before BPF made the
decision to lend and S refers to a letter written by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to
BPF setting out concerns over BPFs decisions to lend on loans brokered by a different
timeshare provider. 
Ive considered whats been said carefully. I accept BPF was required to undertake
reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W was likely to be able to afford
to repay the borrowing here sustainably. But, even if I were to find BPF didnt do all it should
have done when it agreed to lend, Id still need to be satisfied that the loan was actually
unaffordable for Mr W in order to reasonably uphold this part of his complaint. I havent got 
much information about Mr Ws circumstances at the relevant time. Ive seen nothing to 
show that he experienced any difficulties repaying the loan. And it looks as if the loan was 
paid off in full in 2011  which doesnt suggest financial problems. So, on the evidence I 
have at the moment, Im not persuaded that this complaint should be upheld on the grounds 
it was irresponsible of BPF to provide this loan to Mr W. 
Conclusions
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr W may have against
the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think
any claim that he might have against the supplier and/or BPF has probably exceeded the
time limits set out in the LA and I dont think its unreasonable to take this into account. Im 
not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. I 
dont think BPF has treated Mr W unfairly or acted unreasonably so I cant properly require 
BPF to compensate him or do anything else.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any comments or
information that I hadnt seen before by 9 February 2022. I said Id review all the
evidence available after that and make my final decision.
BPF responded to say it has nothing further to add and Mr Ws representatives made further 
detailed submissions and supplied additional evidence. S acknowledges the date of 
purchase was April 2009 and says (in summary) the timeshare acquisition agreement 
doesnt comply with timeshare law which extends the withdrawal period - meaning BPF was 
negligent to pay the supplier when it did. S considers section 14A LA applies as a result and 
the limitation period is extended to three years from the date Mr W acquired the knowledge 
necessary to enable him to claim  which is three years from the date he sought advice from 
S meaning this claim is not out of time. 
I have thought about what S says but I dont think it takes the matter any further. Section 14A LA provides a special time limit for negligence actions where facts relevant to the 
cause of action are not known at the date of accrual. And, for this section to apply, a 
claimant must have a cause in negligence against the prospective defendant. Having 
considered what happened here, I remain of the view there was an obligation to provide 
sufficient appropriate and timely information to enable Mr W to make an informed choice 
about whether to take out the loan. But I cant see that a duty of care arose - or advice was 
provided - that could give rise to a claim under section 14A. 
For the reasons Ive given already, I remain of the view that any claim Mr W might have 
against the supplier and/or BPF has probably exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I 
dont think its unreasonable to take this into account. And Im not persuaded that the 
timeshare agreement or the loan are voidable  or that the lending was irresponsible. 
Nothing thats been said has persuaded me to change my mind. Im not satisfied there are 
sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. I dont think BPF has treated 
Mr W unfairly or acted unreasonably in the circumstances and I cant properly require BPF to 
compensate him or do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, my decision is I am unable to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman