DRN-3839785
The complaint
Miss T complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money (118 118) didnt 
help her when she was experiencing financial difficulties. She is also unhappy that they 
didnt advise her to cancel a direct debit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss T and I understand this must have been a very upsetting time 
for her, but Im afraid I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The direct debit payment
The business should have advised Miss T that her direct debit had already been requested 
and she needed to contact her bank to stop it. Unfortunately, as that wasnt done the 
payment due in early May was taken along with the new payment arrangement that had 
been agreed for the end of the month.
I can see 118 118 offered Miss T £50 to compensate her for that and for the failure to 
respond to her additional concerns. I note 118 118 also offered to reimburse any charges 
she had incurred as a result and that no adverse reports were made to the credit reference 
agencies. In the circumstances I think £50 compensation was sufficient.
Assistance with financial difficulty
Miss T had several calls with the business on and around this period. She was clearly upset 
and frustrated but I dont think it would be fair to suggest 118 118 didnt try to help her. 
During the calls Miss T refused a call back from the specialist support team and whilst I 
understand the difficult time she was going through I think she could have cooperated a little 
more with the agents who were clearly trying to assist her. I dont think theres evidence the 
business didnt try to help, and I cant find evidence that 118 118 took actions on Miss Ts 
account without notifying her. 
Overall, I think the action 118 118 has taken is sufficient here and Im not asking it to do 
anything else.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman