DRN-3139775
The complaint
Mr G complains that Unum Ltd turned down his group income protection claim.
What happened
Mr G was covered under his former employers group income protection scheme. The aim of 
the scheme was to pay benefit initially in the event Mr G couldnt work in his occupation 
because of illness or injury. The scheme had a 26-week deferred period. 
In November 2019, Mr G stopped work due to stress. He submitted a claim to Unum, 
however this was turned down as Unum didnt think he met the policy definition of incapacity. 
Unhappy with this, Mr G brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Based on the medical evidence, 
she thought Unums claims decision had been reasonable. 
Mr G didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For Mr G to be eligible for benefit under the scheme, he needs to show that he met the 
schemes definition of incapacity throughout the 26-week deferred period. This was from 
November 2019 to May 2020. 
The policy terms define incapacity as:
the member is unable, by reason of his illness or injury, to perform the material and 
substantial duties of his insured occupation...
Mr G explained on his claim form that he was experiencing stress and anxiety brought on by 
demanding work requirements. He said it wasnt possible for him to undertake complex tasks 
due to his reduced concentration levels. When asked what assistance he would need for him 
to return to work, Mr G said there would need to be some initial adjustments to his 
employers working practices. Though he said hed also need to reduce his general stress 
and anxiety and improve his ability to concentrate before being able to return to work.
Ive looked at Mr Gs medical records. I see that he was initially signed off with stress at work 
by his GP. At the time it was recorded he was feeling stressed, and didnt have time to do 
things properly in work. The GP noted Mr G wasnt sleeping and dreaded going into work. 
His GP referred him for a stress management course.
In December 2019, the GP asked Mr G to complete some questionnaires. The Generalised 
Anxiety Disorder questionnaire indicated that Mr G had mild to moderate anxiety levels. 
Also in December 2019, Mr G was reviewed by an occupational health adviser. The adviser 
noted that Mr G had workplace concerns around difficulty meeting recently implemented 
performance measures. Mr G informed the adviser that hed been experiencing anxiety and 
intermittent low mood over the previous six months triggered by the perceived workplace 
concerns. He reported a disrupted sleep pattern, nausea, feeling on edge, anxious, chest 
tightening and palpitations, as well as reduced patience. The adviser concluded that Mr G 
wasnt fit to return work, though she noted that Mr G had detailed some perceived workplace 
concerns which were presenting a non-medical barrier to a return to work. 
In January 2020, Mr G saw his GP again and reported still feeling anxious, and said that he 
could get panicky at times. The stress management course hadnt yet begun, and it was 
noted that Mr G wasnt keen on starting medication. 
Over the following few months, Mr G continued to report feeling anxious. He also completed 
the stress management course (which consisted of six sessions), before being discharged. 
Mr Gs medical records say that he was receiving counselling through work, but Mr G hasnt 
provided any information from his counsellor for this service to take into account.
Then in May 2020, Mr G was again reviewed by the occupational health adviser. Mr G 
advised that his low mood and anxiety symptoms hadnt improved, and he continued to 
report a tight chest and breathlessness around three or four times a week. Mr G told the 
adviser that perceived workplace concerns around meeting expectations in his job continued 
to be the main trigger for his symptoms. The adviser again concluded that Mr G wasnt fit to 
work, but again he had perceived workplace concerns that were presenting a non-medical 
barrier to his return to work.  
Its apparent from the medical evidence that Mr G was experiencing problems at work, and 
that his symptoms of stress and anxiety were brought on by this. 
Unum thought that Mr Gs absence was due to the workplace issues with his former 
employer, rather than a mental health illness which prevented him from carrying out his 
occupation. On balance, I think it was fair for Unum to take this approach. Whilst its clear 
that Mr G was experiencing stress-related symptoms, the available evidence doesnt support 
that his symptoms were so severe that he couldnt carry out his role. 
Overall, I think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that Mr Gs symptoms werent an 
incapacitating illness, as required by the policy for benefit to be paid.  
Mr G has also complained about delays caused by his employer in communicating Unums 
claims decision to him. However, that is an employee/employer matter in which we cant 
interfere. I see that Unum made its claims decision a few weeks after it had received Mr Gs 
medical records. It notified Mr Gs former employer of this as it was the policyholder, and so I 
dont find that Unum caused any unnecessary delays here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman