DRN-2117748
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has turned down his claim for storm 
damage under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H contacted AXA to make an insurance claim for damage to the flat roof on his house, 
which had allowed water to enter his home, causing damage. AXA appointed a surveyor 
who concluded that there was no evidence of storm damage to the roof. AXA declined the 
claim.
Mr H complained to AXA. When AXA responded, it maintained its decision to decline the 
claim on the basis that the damage wasnt caused by a storm. So, Mr H complained to this 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as she though AXA had acted 
reasonably in turning down the claim for the reasons that it had given.
As Mr H did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H noticed internal damage in his home, which he thought was caused by an issue with 
the roof. So he got the company that supplied the roof to carry out repairs to it. A few weeks 
later, there was a storm and Mr H noticed water entering his home again. The company 
came back and found that cement from the flaunching had broken away. At this point, Mr H 
contacted AXA to make a claim. 
Following a visit from AXAs surveyor, AXA turned down the claim. So I need to decide 
whether I think that was fair and reasonable.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Looking at weather data for the period in question, these show that there were storm 
conditions at the time of the damage. AXA also accepts that there were storm conditions. 
So, the answer to the first question is yes.
On the second question, I think that a storm could cause damage to a roof. Looking at the 
specific damage to Mr Hs roof, AXA found that the flaunching showed signs of deterioration 
and that there was some missing mortar. Mr H also provided a report from the roofing 
company which said that when it returned after the storm that the brick work had suffered 
some damage. I think that could happen in a storm, although might also indicate an 
underlying issue that existed before the storm.
Mr H provided a report from the roofing company that carried out a repair for him. This said 
that it had reinstated the metal chase trim and installed a new mastic seal. The report also 
said that during the initial inspection it found that The sand and cement fillet on top of the 
creasing tile which seals in the soldier brick coarse had also been blown away in large 
sections had noticeable cracks in the remaining. It then said that at the second visit I 
couldn't find any fault with the roof covering or upstand details but the brick work had 
suffered further storm damage.
AXA considered Mr Hs report and commented that the photos showed that there were 
cracks and wear and tear to the flaunching and wall. The roof also wasnt water tight as 
mastic had been used to plug the gaps and to glue the roof to the wall, rather than it being 
cemented in. AXA therefore remained of the view that the damage was due to wear and 
tear, not storm damage, and that the repair was temporary rather than permanent.
Ive thought about this and agree with AXAs view that there were pre-existing issues with 
the roof that seem to be the result of wear and tear. This is based on AXAs own survey and 
Mr Hs report, which highlighted issues with the roof that needed addressing. Im aware that 
Mr H had repairs to his roof, but it appears that these didnt deal with all of the issues. 
Looking at the policy terms and conditions, these said that the policy didnt cover damage 
caused gradually by wear and tear or due to faulty design or workmanship.
So thinking about the above, I dont think that the storm was the main cause of the damage 
to the roof as there already seem to have been wear and tear issues with it that the storm 
then highlighted. 
Ive also considered whether the damage would be covered by the accidental damage part 
of the policy. The definition of accidental damage said that it was Sudden, unexpected and 
unforeseen event that causes visible damage. and that the damage must be caused by the 
policyholder or their guests. Given the type of damage in this case, I dont think it was 
covered by this part of the policy either.
Im aware that this will be a particularly disappointing outcome for Mr H because he had very 
recently got a roofing company to carry out work on the roof as he was aware of some 
issues. However, there still appear to have been issues with the roof even after those repairs 
were carried out. On that basis, I think that it was reasonable for AXA to turn down the claim 
on the basis that the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage and that it was more likely 
due to wear and tear. So, I dont uphold this complaint or require AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman