DRN-2200157
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
In August 1999, Mrs C and Mr C bought a regular premium MPPI policy to protect their 
mortgage repayments against accidents, sickness or unemployment in a meeting. Mrs C and 
Mr C were both covered by the policy. Their mortgage and MPPI policy ended in or before 
March 2004.
Mrs C and Mr C say they were strongly led to believe it was very important to have the policy 
with their mortgage. They think the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint. As the complaint still isnt 
resolved, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs C and Mr Cs case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and have decided not to uphold 
Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint for the following reasons:
Mrs C and Mr C say they were strongly led to believe it was very important to have the 
MPPI policy. But their recollections are not detailed about the meeting. This is completely 
understandable considering the many years that have passed since.
I can see from the sales documentation provided that a separate MPPI application form 
was used. This form had a series of questions on it about the insurance. I am persuaded 
after seeing this form that the policy was presented as optional to Mrs C and Mr C. 
Im also not aware of any known issues with the way Halifax or its representatives sold 
these policies at that time. So, when I consider what I have in front of me, I cannot fairly 
conclude on this occasion that Mrs C and Mr C were not given a choice to have the 
policy during the sale and they chose it.
Halifax has said the policy was recommended to Mrs C and Mr C during the meeting. So, 
as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed that this was the 
case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mrs C and Mr C, it had to ensure during the 
sale that the policy was suitable for their needs.
After reviewing the information provided to me, it looks like the policy was suitable for 
Mrs C and Mr C based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time of the sale. 
Mrs C and Mr C say they had sick pay (Mrs C at least 6 months and Mr C 6 months full 
and 6 months half) but the benefit provided by the policy would have been of use to them 
in addition to their provisions. I think, on balance, they would have found the cover the 
policy provided useful for any extended period of unemployment or sickness. I also 
couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting term that would make the 
policies unsuitable for them.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy that   
Mrs C and Mr C took out. I can see from the separate MPPI application form used that 
they would have been clearly disclosed at the time of sale. The policy was affordable, 
and Mrs C and Mr C could have cancelled the policy at any time.
In conclusion, I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not 
uphold Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint about how the MPPI policy was sold to them in 1999.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint about the sale of 
the MPPI policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman