DRN-2699662
The complaint
Ms Hs complaint is about her claim under her contents insurance with Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited (Lloyds), for items which were lost or damaged during a house move. It 
declined her claim.
What happened
Ms H moved home using a removal service. When she unpacked her contents, she found 
that some of her possessions had been damaged and some were missing. Ms H complained 
to Lloyds, but it didnt think shed provided evidence to substantiate her loss or show that 
shed experienced an insured peril. Ms H didnt agree, and she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator concluded that the complaint should be upheld because some of the 
damage to the bigger items was consistent with damage which might be caused during a 
house move. However, our investigator agreed with Lloyds that most of the damage or loss 
wasnt covered under the policy. Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint, 
and she thought Lloyds should reconsider the claim for two of the bigger items.
Lloyds agreed with the proposed outcome. Ms H didnt agree and repeated the details of her 
complaint, saying the removal company packed her belongings so it mustve caused the 
damage and left items behind. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy only covers damage caused if a professional removal company completes the 
packing. Ms H is responsible for showing an insured peril happened. While Ms H says the 
removal company packed her belongings, she hasnt provided any evidence of that, such as 
an invoice showing the services she paid for. Therefore, I dont think its unreasonable that 
Lloyds relied on the evidence given by the removal company, which said Ms H packed her 
own belongings. So, I cant say Lloyds unfairly declined her claim for the damage.
Ms H thinks Lloyds should cover the items left behind. I understand its difficult for Ms H to 
prove what she doesnt have, so Ive looked at how Lloyds handled this issue. Lloyds 
checked with the removal company about its usual process, and it confirmed it wouldve 
asked Ms H to look round the property to make sure nothing had been missed. Both the 
removal company and Ms H say the move was done under difficult circumstances, meaning 
she didnt have an opportunity to check before or after the move. But, I cant fairly ask Lloyds 
to pay for any belongings left behind which Ms H hasnt tried to get back. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to decline this element of the claim.
I understand Ms H says some items were missing and she believes they were stolen. Ms H 
says she reported this, and the damage, to the removal company but not to the police. The 
removal company told Lloyds it had no record of Ms H contacting it, and she cant access 
her phone records to provide evidence. As Ive said, its Ms Hs responsibility to prove her 
loss and, in the absence of phone records to show she contacted the removal company at 
all, I dont think it was unfair for Lloyds to rely on its statement that she didnt call. The terms 
of the removal service require Ms H to report any damage or loss within seven days. 
Because she didnt, her policy with Lloyds doesnt provide cover for her loss. So, Im 
satisfied Lloyds declined the claim fairly, in line with the policy.
Ms H provided photos of her sofa (without covers and cushions) and a coffee table, which 
show some damage. She says the removal company caused the damage. While Lloyds 
initially thought the damage was consistent with wear and tear, it has since agreed to 
reconsider the claim for both items. I can see why Lloyds didnt think the damage was 
necessarily caused by the removal company, but as its agreed to consider this part of Ms 
Hs claim, I see no reason to change it. Therefore, I uphold this element of the complaint.
Ms H commented on Lloyds handling of her request for a renewal policy. She says it 
wouldnt offer cover because of previous claims and her new postcode. A company doesnt 
have to offer a new policy if it considers the risk too great, but that can change at any time, 
so Ms Hs complaint rings true. However, I cant see that Lloyds was made aware of this as 
part of the original complaint, or considered it in its final response letter. So, it falls outside 
my remit. If Ms H remains concerned, she may wish to contact Lloyds.
Finally, Ive noted Ms Hs comments about the online reviews for the removal company. 
While I can see why she provided this information, I can only consider the circumstances of 
her individual complaint. 
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve the complaint, Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited must:
reconsider Ms Hs claim under her contents insurance policy for the damage caused 
to her coffee table and sofa, excluding the cushions and covers, during her move.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman