DRN-4282565
The complaint
Mr M complains that IG Index Limited failed to inform him about overnight funding charges 
that applied to cash spot commodity positions on his Contracts for Difference (CFD) trading 
account.
What happened
Mr M opened his account with IG in March 2020 and since then has been a regular trader of 
a variety of products. In December 2022 he opened several Natural Gas positions on his 
account, which as spot positions, as opposed to futures contracts, had no expiration dates. 
This meant they could be held indefinitely, but due to the way the products were priced, 
would be subject to daily financing adjustments, positive or negative, if held overnight.
In May 2023 Mr M contacted IG to query these adjustments, which at that point represented 
a deduction to his account balance of around £500 daily. He was very unhappy that the 
potential for the deductions hadnt been explained to him, particularly during previous 
correspondence with his account manager many months earlier. He felt that if it had been, 
he wouldnt have continued to maintain the positions.  
IG offered to roll the spot positions into futures contracts to avoid the ongoing adjustments. 
But Mr M said he would keep them as they were, pending the outcome of a complaint to IG 
that he had been misled. 
IG issued a formal response to the complaint in which it reiterated how its spot products 
were priced and explained that as an execution-only broker it felt it had made all relevant 
information available to Mr M. It also didnt consider thered been any failings on the part of 
his account manager, or any other staff members, in the way earlier queries had been 
handled. At this point IG also took the step of putting Mr Ms account to close only as it was 
concerned by comments hed made about the impact the matter and more general use of 
the account was having on his financial and mental wellbeing. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator also didnt feel it should be 
upheld. 
She first considered the general appropriateness of the account for Mr M and was satisfied 
IG had sought the required information from him at the account opening stage in 2020 and 
that it appeared appropriate for IG to have provided the trading facility to him. 
She was also satisfied that, as an execution-only service, IG had provided clear, not 
misleading information in accordance with the requirements of the terms of the account. And 
that, in this respect, it had been Mr Ms sole responsibility to monitor the account and make 
trading decisions.   
In respect of the crux of the complaint  the daily financing adjustments  she was satisfied 
IG had answered Mr Ms enquiries fairly and accurately and provided him with additional 
specific information about the products pricing when requested.   
Mr M strongly disagreed with the investigators view and felt the complaint had been 
misunderstood. He maintained that it was clear his account manager had failed to give him 
important information about the pricing when asked, which had influenced his decision to 
maintain the positions and led to him incur a significant loss.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to acknowledge Mr Ms strength of feeling about the matter and the impact its had on 
him. This has clearly been a very difficult experience. I can assure him Ive looked carefully 
at all the related documentation and reviewed in detail the telephone conversations between 
him and IG. But having done so, I dont think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain 
why, focussing my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific 
point, its not because Ive failed to consider it. Rather, its because Im satisfied I dont need 
to comment on it in reaching what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.  
It's clear Mr M believes strongly that IG should give much clearer, more prominent warnings 
about the specific risks associated with the different products it provides. The daily financing 
adjustments applicable to its spot commodities products being a prime example of this. 
While I accept there could always be more that IG, or any other business, could do to warn 
customers Ive not seen there was anything in Mr Ms case that IG failed to do that it should 
have done. As the investigator highlighted, it provides an execution-only service, and in 
doing so has a responsibility to provide clear information about its products that enables its 
customers to make their own decisions about how to trade. Looking at the information it 
provides on its website, Im satisfied it did this. I should also say for completeness that Ive 
seen nothing to suggest IG priced the product incorrectly at any point, or in any way thats 
inconsistent with its terms or pricing policies. 
That said, Im very conscious that, general information aside, Mr Ms concerns focus more 
on specific, individual instances of information provision where he feels he was failed by IG. 
As noted, Mr M opened the positions in December 2022. In support of his complaint, hes 
pointed to two email exchanges with his account manager that occurred soon after, in 
January 2023.
On 10 January 2023 he emailed saying Just to confirm, my positions in Natural Gas will not 
expire, to which his account manager replied, Yes you are holding our undated contracts 
so you can hold it for as long as you wish. 
Mr M feels that at this point his account manager shouldve alerted him to the specific risks 
involved with the pricing mechanism for the product. But given the nature of his query  
simply seeking confirmation regarding the products expiration  I dont feel there was any 
responsibility placed on the account manager to provide information about pricing, or indeed 
any other feature of the product. I think the response was reasonable in the circumstances. 
A week later, on 17 January 2023, Mr M emailed again, asking about how the price for the 
product was determined. The account manager gave a brief explanation and provided a link 
to a page of IGs website, How are spot commodities priced, and how is my overnight 
funding calculated?   Mr M again questioned what he saw as a differential in IGs pricing of Natural Gas, and the 
account manager provided some more information about how the spot price was determined 
and why it wouldnt precisely follow the futures price.
A further email from Mr M providing a screen shot of the pricing information he was looking 
at was replied to by the account manager the following day. He clarified that Mr M was 
looking at the futures contract price and not the price of the undated spot product he held. 
The account manager provided some more information about how the market was trading 
and how this was impacting the price, provided the website link again and suggested Mr M 
contact him again after reading it if he had further questions. 
Ive noted the comments about this second exchange that Mr M made during the telephone 
calls to IG in which he raised his concerns a few months later in May 2023. He felt the 
information provided in January was of little use, not clear and, in effect, an attempt to hide 
the pricing information from him. 
But again, looking objectively at the second email exchange, I dont think the account 
managers responses were unreasonable or misleading. I accept that the methodology for 
determining the price adjustment is complex. But the information was provided, and Mr M 
couldve sought further clarity or reassurance if he was uncertain about it. 
And of note is the fact that during January 2023, when the email exchanges occurred, the 
financing adjustments were actually positive. So, at that time Mr Ms account was seeing 
daily deposits to his balance, rather than the withdrawals that came later in the following 
months, and which prompted his complaint. As such, I can understand that the pricing issue 
wouldnt initially have been such a concern. But ultimately, it remained Mr Ms ongoing 
responsibility to ensure he understood the trades he was making and the consequences of 
maintaining the positions. And I think IG provided sufficient information in that respect.
Mr M has also raised concerns with a call he had with another IG staff member in May 2023 
when he first called in to the query the negative adjustments to his account. Ive listened 
closely to that call, and its follow-up, but again I dont feel IG acted unreasonably or 
incorrectly. 
Mr M says that the staff member was evasive and over-emphasised the much smaller 2.5% 
daily fee (approximating to around £17 per day) that IG charged alongside the daily 
adjustment. But listening to the call impartially I think the staff member genuinely tried his 
best to help Mr M, so he might better understand the situation, and try to reach some sort of 
resolution. I think the staff members focus on the fee rather than the much larger adjustment 
was driven by the fact he wasnt initially aware of what product was being discussed. It was 
only around seven or eight minutes into the call that Mr M agreed to give the staff member 
some details so he could look at this account and confirm the product. 
And although Mr M feels that the call closed with the staff member effectively making an 
offer of some sort of reimbursement, I dont think thats the case. The offer made was to try 
and reach a resolution and to provide information about the charges that had been applied 
since March 2023, which I understand was later provided.
Another point Mr M has raised relates to him being told that the spot product was designed 
for day trading and that this was also something he shouldve been made aware of much 
earlier. It appears that it was during the initial call in May 2023 that the staff member, at the 
point of realising the type of product being discussed, commented that the spot product was 
primarily designed for day trading. 
I can understand why this comment wouldve compounded Mr Ms dissatisfaction. But it wasnt incorrect (in the main spot trading is considered more of a short-term approach) and it 
also doesnt in my view mean that anything IG said or did prior to the comment was wrong. 
As I said earlier in respect of the more general information that IG provided, I accept there 
was more information that could have been provided. But there was nothing in my view that 
should have been provided but wasnt. There was no onus on IG to reiterate risk warnings 
already given or provide information that hadnt overtly been asked for.  
So, overall, while I recognise Mr M will be very disappointed and disagree strongly with my 
findings, Im unable to conclude that IG acted incorrectly. 
I should also add that, given the comments made by Mr M while discussing the matter with 
IG concerning the impact of it on him and his state of mind, I think the decision by IG to put 
the account to close-only so no further positions could be opened was a fair and pragmatic 
decision in the circumstances. Its what Id have expected IG to do considering its regulatory 
responsibilities and requirement to treat customers fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman