DRN-2756161
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC incorrectly raised a chargeback on his account after 
hed notified them hed received a refund from the merchant. He is unhappy with the 
handling of the chargeback claim and the customer service received.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr G had purchased tickets for an event which was cancelled. He was told by the 
merchant that a refund would be processed within 28 days. After 28 days had passed 
and the promised refund had not arrived Mr G contacted Lloyds to raise a 
chargeback claim. Mr G received a refund of £270 directly from the merchant four 
days after raising his claim with Lloyds. Whilst this wasnt the full amount of £296.50, 
hed paid in June 2020, he called Lloyds and withdrew his chargeback claim. 
In August 2020 Lloyds raised the claim Mr G had withdrawn in June 2020 and 
applied a temporary credit of £296.50 to his account. They wrote to him and said if 
the merchant didnt respond within 45 days the funds would remain permanently in 
his account. But then more than 45 days later (in October 2020) Lloyds wrote to Mr G 
informing him that it would be removing the credit as a refund had been provided by 
the merchant. 
I understand part of Mr Gs expectations are that Lloyds should allow him to keep the 
temporary credit theyd applied. I appreciate how the letters may have been 
confusing, Mr Gs expectations were mismanaged, and Lloyds have not provided a 
great service. But I dont agree that their mistake entitles Mr G to the funds that were 
credited to his account in error and for which he had already received a refund. Ive 
already explained to Mr G that unfortunately, businesses sometimes make mistakes, 
like Lloyds have here in raising a claim which hed withdrawn. Our role is to ensure 
that, when they do, any loss the consumer suffers as a result is redressed. But from 
what Ive seen Mr G has not lost out financially as a result of Lloyds error as the 
merchant had already provided him with a refund (which he was satisfied with). So I 
dont think Lloyds have acted unfairly in re-debiting the temporary credit.  
A lot of Mr Gs complaint and submissions also centre around the delay in the 
merchant defending the claim (as they took longer than 45 days) but I dont think I 
need to make a finding in relation to this as it doesnt materially impact the outcome 
here, as the temporary credit should never have been applied to Mr Gs account in 
the first place.
Mr G has given numerous reasons for why he believes a greater compensation 
award should be paid by Lloyds for the trouble and upset its actions has caused. This 
mainly comprises of, but isnt limited to; 
- him being self-employed, having no government support during lockdown and the 
merchant not providing a prompt refund causing him stress and inconvenience, 
which was made worse by Lloyds poor service;
- misleading and factually incorrect communication from Lloyds;
- Lloyds failure to act on his instruction to cancel the chargeback claim; and 
- the time it took Lloyds to resolve the dispute.
I appreciate it was a difficult time for Mr G and Im sorry to hear of his circumstances, 
but I cant fairly ask Lloyds to compensate for the merchants actions or the delays 
caused by them. Its important to note that Mr G withdrew his claim as hed received 
a refund from the merchant four days after first raising the matter with Lloyds. So I 
can't agree that at this stage Lloyds actions would've had such an impact that 
warrants compensation.  
The primary service issues complained of arose as Mr G disagreed with Lloyds' 
decision to remove a temporary refund it had applied to his account. I understand he 
feels let down as a customer of theirs but ultimately, the claim in August 2020 was 
raised in error and I think this is something he wouldve been aware of at the time as 
hed already received a refund and had asked Lloyds to withdraw his claim. But I 
cant see that Mr G contacted Lloyds about this until it wrote to him in October 2020 
advising that it would be removing the temporary credit it had applied. As Mr G 
wasnt looking to pursue a claim and had received a refund that he was satisfied with, 
from what Ive seen I dont think any delays in Lloyds handling the claim had an 
impact (financially or otherwise) that warrants more compensation than it has offered.
I accept a mistake was made by Lloyds when it incorrectly raised a claim and its 
overall service could've been better. I can also see how its actions may have caused 
confusion and its letter could've led to mis-managed expectations. But I must also 
take into consideration that it was Mr Gs choice to knowingly pursue a complaint 
about a sum of money he wasn't entitled to as he'd already received a refund and 
had withdrawn his claim. And having thought about all of this I think Lloyds' resolution 
to his complaint is fair and reasonable. 
Overall, I think providing a refund for the £26.50 (difference between what the 
merchant had refunded and the actual disputed amount), and £75 compensation for 
recognition of incorrectly raising a claim and the customer service issues is a fair way 
to settle this complaint.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr G. But, in the circumstances, I do not 
consider that Lloyds needs to take any further action.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman