The complaint
Mr F says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a regular payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy to cover his store card repayments.
What happened
Mr F took out a store card in 2002. At the same time he took out a PPI policy to cover his 
card repayments. The policy cost £1 per £100 of the balance on Mr Fs store card. A 
successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the store 
card if Mr F was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job. The benefit would 
continue to be paid until Mr F returned to work or the balance was cleared.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld because he thought Mr F 
wouldve understood he had a choice in taking the cover and thought it provided a useful 
benefit to Mr F.
Mr F disagrees. He says he wasnt given any information about the policy and just signed 
where he was told to. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
The PPI was applied for in store when Mr F applied for a store card. AXA have given us a 
copy of the original store card application form. I can see that the sections on the application 
form that deal with card protection and additional card holders have been left blank. But I 
can see that Mr F has signed for PPI under the words (Only sign this box if you require 
Account Cover) Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account Cover 
Mr F says he just signed where he was told to. But I dont think he wouldve signed a 
document without reading what he was signing for. If Mr F didnt want to take out PPI he 
couldve left this section blank like the others and not signed to take the cover. Because he 
signed within the PPI section rather than leaving it clear, I think its likely Mr F knew he had a 
choice about taking out PPI. And I think he signed within the box because he wanted the 
cover.
DRN-1348478I dont think Mr F was advised to take the cover. What this means is that AXA didnt 
recommend PPI to Mr F, they just gave him information about PPI. This information needed 
to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
AXA say that sufficient information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow Mr F 
to make an informed choice on whether to add PPI to his account. But I cant say whether 
this information was good enough. That being said even if AXA did give all the information 
Mr F needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think he wouldve still 
taken the policy because at the time of sale:
He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a
successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr F says he was entitled to a generous level of sick pay and
had no other bills and could easily make his repayments if he was unable to work or
lost his job. But situations can change and the policy wouldve paid out on top of any
work benefits and for potentially longer. So I dont think knowing this information
wouldve changed his mind about taking the policy and I think the policy wouldve
provided a useful benefit for him in his circumstances.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and if he no longer
wanted the policy he was able to cancel it.
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr F on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman