DRN-2395955
The complaint
Mr P complains on behalf of T, a limited liability partnership about Ten Insurance Services 
Ltds actions arising out of the sale of a professional indemnity insurance policy in 2015.
T says Ten Insurance misrepresented their circumstances to the insurer, which led to the 
insurer declining a claim under the policy in 2019 and refusing to indemnify T any further. 
All references to Ten Insurance include their appointed representatives. 
What happened
In 2015 Ten Insurance offered to source professional indemnity insurance for T. They did so 
by sending a proposal form to T to complete. T initially completed the form and returned it. A 
few days later T amended the content and returned a second form intended to take the place 
of the first. 
The proposal form required T to answer a series of questions. One of the questions related 
to the percentage of Ts activity which related to Offshore Schemes/ Tax Efficiency Scheme 
Advice. T said the percentage was 0%. 
Following receipt of the proposal form, Ten Insurance recommended a policy be taken out 
with a particular insurer, which T agreed to. As such cover was put in place with that insurer 
from October 2015. 
17 days later Ten Insurance sent T a copy of the policy together with a copy of a statement 
of fact Ten had completed and sent to the insurer on Ts behalf. The statement of fact 
included the following question:
Have you ever, or do you intend to, in the future, undertake work in relation to tax
planning schemes which could be considered as tax avoidance, including acting as an
introducer to such schemes, or any involvement whatsoever in relation to tax planning
schemes. (Please refer to the HMRC website www.hmrc.gov.uk for full details as to
what could be considered as tax avoidance). 
Ten Insurance had answered No to that question on behalf of T when submitting the form to 
the insurer. The policy continued to be renewed by T annually.
In January 2019 T made a claim to cover its legal costs and any award of damages that 
might be made against it arising from its introduction of a former client to a third-party 
provider of an Employer-Financed Related Retirement Benefits Scheme. The insurer 
declined the claim on the basis that T had misrepresented itself on the issue of whether it 
had ever undertaken any work in relation to tax planning schemes which could be 
considered tax avoidance by acting as an introducer in the past. They also removed cover 
going forward. 
T says Ten Insurance are responsible for misrepresenting its position to the insurer in that 
they completed and sent the statement of fact without reference to T. Thats because it was 
on this basis that insurance was offered and put in place. And although T was sent a copy of 
the statement of fact, this wasnt until 17 days after the policy commenced and T didnt 
notice the information in that document because its attention hadnt been drawn to it. 
Ten Insurance says it was up to T to check that the information provided to the insurer was 
correct- even if that was after the sale. And T had failed to disclose to them that it had been 
involved in acting as an introducer for tax efficiency work. Had it done so, the insurer 
wouldnt have offered cover on any terms. 
Our investigator considered Ts complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. He said that 
although there were failings on Ten Insurances part in completing the statement of fact and 
sending it to the insurer without referring to T, T had a duty of utmost good faith to disclose 
every circumstance it knew, or should have known, would influence an insurers decision to 
provide cover. This included giving Ten Insurance full details of the introduction work it had 
conducted in the past. Had it done so, cover wouldnt have been offered and T wouldnt have 
found itself in the predicament it is currently facing. So Ten Insurance isnt responsible for 
this.
T doesnt agree. Its made detailed submissions in response. Ive considered them all but 
Ive summarised the key issues as follows:
T was entitled to rely on Ten Insurance to carry out their instructions and T wasnt bound 
to examine the documents drawn up in performance of those instructions or to check 
whether theyd been carried out.
Although the Ombudsman Service isnt bound by case law on similar matters, the 
conclusions reached by the investigator are at odds with the position in law, which is 
unreasonable. 
The complaint is about Ten Insurances disclosure of incorrect information rather than a 
misrepresentation by T. 
Ten Insurance had a duty to ensure the policy was suitable for Ts needs. It failed to do 
so they are responsible for Ts claim being turned down and cover being removed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Ts complaint shouldnt be upheld, for broadly the same 
reasons set out by the investigator.
Ten Insurance accept the policy was sold on an advised basis. That means they had a duty 
to ensure the policy was suitable for Ts needs and circumstances. Having considered the 
way in which the policy was sold- effectively on paper- Im satisfied that Ten Insurance did 
do something wrong. As part of an advised sale, I wouldve expected T to be consulted 
before a statement of fact was sent to the insurer. In this case, that didnt happen. The 
statement of fact was completed and sent to the insurer without Ts input. And it was on this 
basis that cover was put into place by the insurer. 
That having been said, the information Ten Insurance included in that statement of fact was 
largely based on the information T had given in the proposal form it had completed. The 
proposal form required T to provide a Full Description of Activities, with percentage 
breakdown (estimated if no historical data) on the question of what percentage of its activity 
related to Offshore Schemes/ Tax Efficiency Scheme Advice. I appreciate that at the time 
and beyond, none of Ts activities related to this work but historically it had been involved as an introducer for tax efficient services. Because of this and the fact that it was looking to take 
out professional indemnity insurance which protects against historic claims, I wouldve 
expected T to disclose historic data about the work it had conducted. 
As a commercial entity, there was a duty on T to do so under the Marine Insurance Act 
1906. Thats because the insurance was purchased in October 2015, which was before the 
provisions of the Insurance Act 2015 came into force later that year. The Marine Insurance 
Act 1906 placed a duty of utmost good faith on T to disclose every circumstance it knew of 
or should have known of that would influence an insurers decision to provide cover. Thats a 
wider duty than the one conferred on T by the subsequent Insurance Act but nevertheless 
still stands because of the time the policy was taken out.
In this case, I think Ts historic work as an introducer is something it should have disclosed - 
whether or not Ten Insurance failed in their duties to ensure the policy it sold was suitable for 
its demands and needs by checking the statement of fact with it. The onus was very much 
on T to provide the information needed and to disclose everything in the first instance. And if 
it wasnt sure, it could also have asked Ten Insurance for advice about its disclosure 
obligations at any point before or after the sale of the insurance.
I dont think T is helped by the fact that Ten Insurance sent it a copy of the statement of fact 
completed following the sale of the insurance. And whilst I appreciate that the document 
appeared in and amongst 100 pages, it was possible for T to have corrected the information 
Ten Insurance gave the insurer on its historic dealings, had T have considered those 
documents. I dont think it was necessary for Ten Insurance to have drawn Ts attention to 
the specific information on the nature of Ts historic work, other than to do what it did by 
telling T to check the enclosed documents carefully to ensure all details are correct and in 
accordance with your instructions to place business. 
It also added Please note there is a duty to disclose all information that will, or may, have an 
influence on an insurers understanding of your risk profile. Failure to disclose information to 
insurers may entitle them to avoid claims and cancel the insurance contract. In the event 
there is something incorrect in the documentation please contact us immediately and return 
the documents for amendment. 
On page 2 of the pack T was sent, it says HERE is your Policy. Please check it very 
carefully and ensure that it is accurate and precisely meets your requirements. If there is any 
error, or anything that you do not understand, please contact your broker straightaway.
Because of this I dont think Ten Insurances actions led to Ts claim being declined and 
cover being removed. Rather I think that Ts failure to meet its duty of utmost good faith in 
accordance with the Marine Insurance Act 1906 by disclosing every circumstance it knew of 
or should have known of that would influence an insurers decision to provide cover was 
what led to it finding itself without cover. 
Id like to assure T that Ive taken into account the case law its referred me to. But I dont 
think the principles of those cases detract from Ts obligations under the Marine Insurance 
Act 1906 and in any event my decision is that the cause of insurance being removed was Ts 
failure to meet its statutory obligations, rather than Ten Insurances failings in the information 
they gave the insurer.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ts complaint against Ten Insurance Services 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P, on behalf of 
T, to accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman