DRN-3981855
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that theyve been overcharged for a number of years by 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) for their home insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a home and contents insurance policy with Lloyds over a number of 
years. They contacted Lloyds in 2017 to inform it of their change of address, however they 
subsequently received no renewal information from Lloyds and continued to pay for their 
insurance each year. In 2022 Mr and Mrs C noticed a large increase in their premiums.
It then became apparent that Lloyds hadnt changed address details as instructed by Mr and 
Mrs C in 2017. This meant that the renewal documentation was sent to the Mr and Mrs Cs 
old address. Mr and Mrs C complained to Lloyds that it had overcharged them over the 
years, and theyd expected the premiums to remain similar to those in 2017. Lloyds didnt 
agree and considered that it had charged the correct premiums each year. However, it 
agreed that it had made an error in not recording the correct address for Mr and Mrs C.
The services investigator didnt think that Lloyds had acted unfairly regarding the policy 
pricing and premium increase. He did however consider that Lloyds had failed to provide a 
satisfactory service by sending correspondence to Mr and Mrs Cs old address after 
receiving updated details. The investigator asked Lloyds to increase its compensation offer 
to £250 and it agreed to do so.
The investigators reasoning for his decision was that hed seen no evidence that the 
premium increases were due to automatic renewals and non-contact from Mr and Mrs C. He 
also didnt think that there was anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs C were unable to shop 
around for their insurance. He noted that insurers constantly update risk-ratings. The 
investigator noted that the largest increase was in 2017/2018 when Mr and Mrs C moved 
house. He considered that Lloyds had provided a reasonable explanation for the increases 
over the years. He also accepted that there was a change in property type, the number of 
bedrooms and other factors which would impact on insurance risk and cause the premium to 
increase. He noted that the three years increases after 2017.2018 were all below 20% 
which he considered to be reasonable. In conclusion, he didnt think Mr and Mrs C had been 
treated unfairly or differently to any other customer in the same circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy about the outcome of their complaint. The matter has now 
been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to determine is whether Lloyds treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly or 
unreasonably in increasing premiums over several years. Ive concluded that it didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain how Ive reached this conclusion.
Insurance pricing practices and risk assessments do change over the years. When a
customer takes out a new policy, its often at a price which is discounted in comparison with 
the true cost of providing insurance, and sometimes the premium will increase over time to 
recoup that discount. The fact that the price of an insurance policy has gone up and that 
there might be similar, cheaper polices available elsewhere, doesnt necessarily mean 
something has gone wrong. However, insurers still need to treat their customers fairly and 
reasonably in deciding what premium to charge at each renewal. This means that Lloyds 
needed to consider the extent to which Mr and Mrs C were engaging with the renewal 
process and any reasons for failing to fully engage if large price increases were occurring. 
Turning to the evidence and what Mr and Mrs C and Lloyds say about the matter, they had 
home and contents insurance with Lloyds for many years and were satisfied with the 
premiums they were paying. In June 2017 however, Mr and Mrs C contacted Lloyds Bank to 
confirm that they were moving to a new property and wanted to move the policy over to their 
new property. Lloyds agreed and Mr and Mrs C renewed the policy from July 2017.
Over the next four years, Mr and Mrs C didnt receive any renewal documentation, so 
assumed they were paying a similar rate to that theyd agreed in 2017. They didnt check 
their bank statements to ensure that the rate was the same, as it is expected that a 
reputable organisation would inform us if they were going to increase our premiums. They 
said that if theyd continued with Lloyds for the remainder of year five, they would have paid 
over treble what they paid in 2017. Theyd experienced an increase in the year of the move 
but expected this as they were moving to a larger house. What they didnt expect, and 
werent advised of, was the doubling of the price the following year. They didnt think that this 
could be explained by regular market inflation or the change of property. They said 
subsequent increases averaged 15.2% which is significantly higher than published averages 
for each of those years, some of which preliminary research shows as a high of 1.6% 
increases and, in some cases, average drops year on year, especially in [a UK area].
In March 2022, Mr and Mrs C noticed what they considered to be a massive increase in 
premiums and immediately cancelled the policy. They were able to find a new one for an 
amount similar to that paid in June 2017. They contacted Lloyds but were told that it was 
their own fault and that they should have checked their bank statements. They said that they 
did receive £150 as an apology from Lloyds after it admitted fault in not updating their 
system with the new address. However, Mr and Mrs C didnt consider that this was adequate 
compensation. By their calculations Mr and Mrs C said that if theyd continued paying their 
2017 premium, they would have paid a total of just over £1,128. They said that due to Lloyds 
not sending them renewal letters, theyd paid a total of over £2,422. They considered that 
theyd therefore been overcharged by over £1,294. Mr and Mrs C said that this matter had 
taken up additional time and had caused them significant distress.
In response to the investigators view, Mr and Mrs C said they werent informed that Lloyds 
analysis of risk had changed and if theyd known, this would have influenced their decision to 
remain with Lloyds. They appreciated that risk could be identified by an insurer as it 
considered fit. However, they thought that Lloyds had reverted to their initial view of risk with 
the latest calculations. In conclusion, Mr and Mrs C said that Lloyds error in failing to change 
the address details hadnt caused a minor inconvenience but had deprived them of the 
opportunity to prevent significant financial loss. They also considered that theyd been 
treated differently to other customers. They were very confident that other customers were 
given all necessary information to make a decision, whereas they werent, as Lloyds had 
admitted. They said, The crux of this matter is that, if the information had been provided as 
is done to all other renewing customers, we would be in a much better situation financially by 
not remaining with Lloyds.Turning to what Lloyds have said about the matter, it acknowledged the address error on its 
files. However, it considered that the premiums charged for each year were correct. It said 
that the cost of the policy each year had been calculated according to the level of cover 
provided and changes to its general rates together with insurance premium tax at the 
relevant rate. It explained that the premiums were calculated on the basis of several factors 
relating to the building, the area and occupants, changes to the view of insurance risks as 
well as administrative costs. It acknowledged that Mr and Mrs C had been able to obtain 
cheaper quotes with alternative providers. It added that; Premiums vary widely across the 
insurance market and in the past it was common practice for policies to include an 
introductory discount or a similar new business incentive. 
Finally, Lloyds case notes show that the risk address was correct, but the mailing address 
wasnt changed for an unknown reason. The notes also show that Lloyds advised Mr and 
Mrs C that being on auto-renew didnt affect premiums. Finally, they confirmed that new 
business discounts were clawed back gradually over subsequent renewals and that the price 
increase in 2018- 2019 was due to a recalculation of the risk.
Turning to the reasoning for my decision, this service has a settled approach to inertia 
cases. When policyholders dont engage with the renewal process, dont shop around and
keep paying for insurance even when the price has increased significantly, the service refers 
to this as insurance inertia. It recognises that there is then potential for customers to lose 
out on the best available terms and prices and for a business to take advantage of this 
inertia to increase premiums and profits. Whilst this isnt an exact science, our general 
approach is that if a customer hasnt engaged with the insurer for over four years, as in this 
case, the relationship is then deemed to be inert.
I do consider the relationship to have become inert here. Ive also considered whether there 
was any barrier to Mr and Mrs C being engaging with Lloyds each year. I do consider that 
Lloyds failure to change their mailing address was a barrier, as Mr and Mrs C didnt receive 
a yearly prompt about their insurance and the cost of renewal. Nevertheless, I cant say that 
this was the predominant reason for non-engagement. Policyholders will appreciate that 
insurance renewal is a yearly process and that its highly unlikely that premiums will remain 
static each year. Policyholders would also reasonably be expected to notice any significant 
changes in amounts coming out of their bank account over a period of five years. Ive seen 
no evidence in this case of any exceptional circumstances or vulnerabilities which would 
override these reasonable expectations.
The further key questions are then whether the price has increased significantly each year 
and whether Lloyds has taken advantage of this inertia to increase premiums and profits. I 
do consider that the price has increased by a moderate amount between 2017 and 2021. 
However, Im satisfied from the available evidence that there were legitimate factors which 
led to of this increase. These include an increase in size and change of property and area 
following purchase. It would be reasonable for an insurer to review risk and adjust price in 
such circumstances. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C consider that they were treated 
differently to other customers, as other customers will have received their annual policy 
paperwork. However, on the key issue of the level of annual increases, I dont consider that 
there is any evidence that theyve been treated differently or that Lloyds has taken 
advantage of inertia.
Lloyds failure to change Mr and Mrs C address as requested, and indeed to pick up the 
address discrepancy on its files was a clear and very unfortunate service error. Our service 
has a settled approach and guidance as to the level of compensation which a business 
would expect to pay for administrative errors. I note that Lloyds has now agreed to pay 
compensation of £250, and I consider this to be at a reasonable level in recognition of any 
distress and inconvenience caused by Lloyds error.I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs C. In all the 
circumstances however, I consider that Lloyds agreement to pay £250 compensation 
provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and I dont 
require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to do anything more in response to their 
complaint (other than to pay the £250 which its already agreed to pay).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman