DRN-3908606
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with charges she was invoiced for by BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited (BMWFS) when she decided to voluntarily terminate (VT) her agreement.
What happened
In October 2017 Mrs M acquired a used car funded by a hire purchase agreement taken with 
BMWFS. The car had a recorded mileage of around 9,960 and the agreement had a mileage 
allowance of 8,000 a year.
Around April 2021 Mrs M says she wasnt using the car as much as she expected to and so 
agreed to VT the agreement, returning the car.
In August 2021 BMWFS got in touch with Mrs M and said it believed the mileage of the car 
had been tampered with  commonly referred to as clocking. It said from October 2020 
there were suspicious jumps in the odometer reading where it increased and then 
decreased. It said this was a clear indicator of mileage tampering.
BMWFS said the car was returned with a mileage displayed of 27,021, but believed it had 
actually covered over 52,000 miles.
BMWFS said a technician had to investigate the issue and it was charging Mrs M £469.04 
for these costs. And it said the car had sold at auction for £1,250 less than what it was 
expecting. So BMWFS said Mrs M owed £1,719.04.
Mrs M complained to BMWFS and said she hadnt tampered with the car. She said she 
acquired the car from a manufacturers garage and had it serviced there. She explained she 
had been on holiday in October 2020 and bought a second home around the same time for 
which she had been driving regular 200 mile round trips. She said this would explain any 
irregular journeys in this period. She said if the car had been tampered with, it must have 
been before she got it.
BMWFS issued its final response in September 2021. It said, in summary, that the car had 
been tampered with. It sent Mrs M a graph which it said showed the mileage barely 
increased between July 2020 and April 2021. But it said it then showed huge increases 
before dropping back down. And it said the mileage on the odometer was more or less the 
same number from October 2020 to when the car was returned, which it said wasnt in line 
with what Mrs M told it about the cars use.
Mrs M remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. She said, in summary, 
that she was a low mileage user and had returned the car as she wasnt using it due to 
working from home. She said she hadnt tampered with the car and had no idea how to do 
this. She said the car had been serviced and repaired at a main dealer. And she said she 
had set up a repayment plan with BMWFS for the charge as she didnt want it to impact her 
credit rating.
Our investigator issued an opinion and explained she didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She said, in summary, that she didnt think the cars odometer reading from around 
October 2020 showed the use of the car Mrs M had told BMWFS about. So she said she 
thought it was reasonable for BMWFS to charge her for the cost of the technician and for the 
loss in value due to the car having an unverified mileage.
Mrs M disagreed. She said, in summary, that she didnt have a record of the mileage shed 
covered so couldnt prove this. She said the trips to the holiday home were probably mainly 
in her partners car. And she said she had no way of getting a second opinion on the car to 
refute the diagnostic BMWFS had done as she no longer had it.
Our investigator explained this didnt change her opinion, so the case was passed to me to 
decide.
I asked BMWFS for some more details and evidence which Ill mainly comment on below. It 
confirmed it believed the car had covered specifically 52,000 miles. And it confirmed there 
was no physical evidence of tampering nor a device being fitted to the car.
BMWFS provided some further reports it said showed further evidence of tampering. And it 
said the car had an additional oil change and brake fluid change to what it wouldve needed 
if it was returned with a mileage of 27,021. BMWFS also confirmed it believed the mileage 
was tampered with from May 2019.
Mrs M also sent some information about the cars servicing, which showed it was returned to 
a main dealer.
I sent Mrs M and BMWFS a provisional decision on 20 December 2022. My findings from 
this decision were as follows:
Mrs M complains about charges at the end of a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
regulated consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im 
satisfied I can consider Mrs Ms complaint about BMWFS.
Its firstly very important to note what Im considering here. Its not my place to decide legal 
issues, and I should make it clear to Mrs M and BMWFS that Im not deciding whether the 
car was clocked or not. What I need to consider here is whether BMWFS have acted fairly 
and reasonably by charging Mrs M for the additional cost of the car being returned with a 
higher mileage than was on the odometer. In other words, what I need to decide here is 
whether BMWFS has shown its most likely the car was returned with the specific mileage of 
52,000.
BMWFS has provided some evidence on this case that it has said is commercially sensitive. 
Ive thought about this, but I dont think I need to discuss the evidence itself in detail to 
explain my reasoning here. Where I havent gone into a lot of specifics about the evidence 
itself, I want to reassure BMWFS and Mrs M that this doesnt mean I havent fully considered 
it. This just reflects the informal nature of our service.
Ive firstly considered the mileage BMWFS said the car covered. I asked BMWFS to provide 
the precise mileage it believed the car had covered and it confirmed this was 52,000. It does 
seem like a rather large coincidence to be such a round figure here. And Ive also 
considered that in its earlier communication with Mrs M it referred to 52,000 or over. Im 
concerned here, given BMWFS are charging Mrs M for the reduction in value from the higher 
mileage, that the mileage appears to be something of an estimate.
If BMWFS has technology that is able to identify mileage that it believes to have been 
tampered with, I might have expected that technology to have been able to accurately record the mileage it believes the car has actually travelled. I think it highly unlikely that the car 
would have travelled exactly 52,000 miles at the point of return and Im concerned that 
BMWFS believes the mileage may be over 52,000, but cannot say exactly what it thinks the 
mileage is, nor is it able to provide supporting evidence.
Ill come onto the evidence provided, but I have also noted there is a lack of a physical 
inspection of the car here. So there is no commentary around parts of the car or interior that 
may have suffered wear and tear from any additional mileage. There also isnt any physical 
evidence of a device that was fitted  although I appreciate BMWFSs point that its likely any 
device wouldve been removed when the car was returned.
Ive considered what BMWFS said about the brake fluid and oil changes, which it said 
means that the car has completed a higher mileage than recorded. Theres limited 
information about this. But, I dont agree the only explanation for this is that the mileage of 
the car has been tampered with. And I havent seen anything that shows this means the car 
had completed specifically 52,000 miles.
Had Mrs M tampered with the mileage and then sold or returned the car without disclosing 
this she may have been committing a criminal offence. I think it unlikely in the circumstances 
that someone who was at the time tampering with the mileage would have removed any 
device and returned to a franchised dealer to have the car serviced, which Mrs M has shown 
she did, potentially then risking being caught having tampered with the car.
Ive looked at the report BMWFS provided that shows icons highlighted in red. BMWFS says 
this shows evidence of tampering. But, there are red icons prior to the date BMWFS says it 
believes the tampering began. And nothing in this report shows the car had covered a 
mileage of 52,000 when it was returned.
Ive then considered the graph BMWFS has provided and shared with Mrs M. BMWFS says 
it believes the mileage tampering began in May 2019. But, I cant see anything on this graph 
that suggests this was the case. BMWFS says the mileage barely increases between July 
2019 and April 2021, but I dont think this is correct. The mileage, apart from the jumps 
seems to increase steadily. And it appears to increase by around 6,000 miles from May 2019 
to October 2020. Its difficult to see from the graph, but it doesnt appear to show any times 
when the mileage doesnt increase for any significant amount of time.
It appears the mileage jumps on the graph occur around the time Mrs M told BMWFS and 
ourselves she bought the holiday home. But Im unsure why a device would be fitted five 
months before this, if the intention was to cover the increased mileages involved in the 
purchase.
Ive considered the jump in mileage here. Its difficult to tell the precise figures from the 
graph. But it appears the initial jump around October 2020 is an increase of roughly 23,500 
miles in around a month. I appreciate Mrs M said she was making a 200 mile round trip 
around this time, but this increase doesnt seem feasible in such a short timeframe. Over a 
period of 30 days, this would mean the car was covering around 785 miles a day  or in 
other words around four round trips a day, every day, to Mrs Ms holiday home  including 
weekends.
Apart from this jump, the mileage seems to increase fairly consistently for the time Mrs M 
had the car  which isnt necessarily what Id expect if it was being tampered with. And this 
also suggests to me the mileage, if what BMWFS says is correct, increased very 
dramatically in a very short space of time and then returned to normal. Which as above, 
doesnt seem feasible.I also dont agree with BMWFS that the mileage the car was returned with was the same as 
showing in October 2020. I can see the mileage has increased steadily from this point  both 
on the true readings and the allegedly tampered ones.
I appreciate BMWFS have said Mrs M told it she was making longer journeys to her holiday 
home and these dont appear to be reflected by the odometer readings. But I cant see, if 
Mrs M was tampering with the mileage of the car and making these long journeys, why she 
would specifically then tell BMWFS that the car was being used like this. And, Mrs M said 
they may have used her partners car for these trips  which doesnt seem unreasonable.
BMWFS have explained they believe the mileage jumps as a device may have been 
switched on and off  it said Mrs M may have been deciding whether to tamper with the 
mileage or not. But, I cant see why someone would do this.
Ive also considered Mrs Ms testimony here. Shes been adamant and consistent that the 
mileage of the car hasnt been tampered with.
I appreciate this case is somewhat finely balanced. But, thinking about what I need to 
consider here, which is whether BMWFS has done enough to show the car had likely 
covered a specific mileage of 52,000, I dont think it has. It follows that I dont think its 
reasonable to charge Mrs M for the cost of the technician, nor the reduction in the value of 
the car at auction.
I want to reassure BMWFS that Ive carefully considered all of the other comments and 
evidence it has provided. And Ive thought very hard about what it said about the fact there is 
no other explanation for the graph and other evidence. But, I havent seen enough to make 
me think there couldnt be another explanation, such as an IT issue here. Considering 
everything, this still doesnt change my opinion that BMWFS hasnt shown the car had 
completed a specific mileage of 52,000.
Its also worth noting here that even if I reached the opposite conclusion about the mileage, I 
would not be convinced BMWFS has acted reasonably by charging Mrs M £1,250 for the 
reduction in the cars value. The car was sold at auction, and BMWFS says it received 
£1,250 less than it predicted. But, there are many reasons a car at auction might sell for less 
than a seller expects, such as the condition of the car, what other cars are available, what 
demand there is for that particular model on the particular day etc. I havent seen evidence 
here that the amount received was lower than expected specifically because of the mileage 
and not for some other reason.
In order to put things right, BMWFS should write off any outstanding balance from this 
charge. It should reimburse Mrs M for any payments made towards it. And it should remove 
any adverse information from Mrs Ms credit file about this charge.
Ive also considered that Mrs M has suffered distress and inconvenience because of what 
happened here. Shes described how the situation has been very upsetting and stressful.
And shes had to take time out to deal with the issue. I think BMWFS should pay her £150 to 
reflect this.
I gave both parties four weeks to come back with any further comments or evidence for me 
to consider. Mrs M responded and said she didnt have anything further to add. BMWFS 
didnt respond.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about all of the information in relation to this complaint again, I still think it 
should be upheld. This is due to the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision 
and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited to put things right by doing the following:
Write off any remaining balance from this charge
Reimburse Mrs M any payments made towards this charge*
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Ms credit file in relation to this charge
Pay Mrs M £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
*These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If BMWFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman