DRN-3446051
The complaint
Mr B and Ms Es complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) relates to incorrect 
information they were given regarding the amount of the Early Repayment Charge (ERC) 
they had to pay when redeeming their mortgage. They believe Barclays should honour the 
figure an agent verbally quoted to Ms E which is substantially less than the contractual figure 
Barclays say is due.
What happened
Mr B and Ms owned their property jointly and were in a relationship. They decided to 
separate in 2021 a consequence of which was they decided to sell their property with a view 
to buying separate properties for themselves.
On 15 April 2021 Ms E rang Barclays to get some information about redeeming their existing 
mortgage before the current fixed rate product expired on 31 October. She says she was 
told by an advisor that the ERC, which contractually was set at 2% of any outstanding 
balance, would be reduced to 10% of was due if the mortgage was redeemed within 90 days 
of the product expiry date, or waived entirely if redeemed within 30 days of that date. Ms E 
said she was told this meant the ERC would be £1,080 rather than the full £10,884.87. This 
information was however incorrect.
On the same day Barclays sent to Mr B and Ms E a redemption statement which correctly 
quoting the higher ERC charge. Further statements were sent out in June and July, all with 
the correct figure. 
On 28 July Ms E called Barclays who again confirmed the correct ERC level explaining that 
the 90% reduction to the ERC would only apply if the mortgage was redeemed from Mr B 
and Ms Es own funds as opposed to funds from the sale of the property. Ms E asked 
Barclays to honour the earlier information she was given but they declined. 
Barclays did accept that the information given by their agent during the call in April was not 
as clear as it could have been and that this had led to some confusion, however they felt the 
written redemption statements provided made it clear what the correct ERC was going to be. 
To reflect this Barclays offered Mr B and Ms E £200 for any distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mr B and Ms E were unhappy with Barclays final response and so approached this service 
to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there 
had been poor service, the amount of compensation Barclays offered was enough to put 
things right. Mr B and Ms E didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is accepted by Mr B and Ms E that in principle some ERC is payable. It is the amount of 
the ERC which is in dispute. The starting point here must be the call Ms E had with Barclays 
on 15 April. The agent told Ms E that if the mortgage was redeemed prior to 31 October that 
year, a penalty would be incurred. She explained what the full ERC would be, but that during 
the last 90 days of the product rate, Mr B and Ms E were able overpay 90% of the 
outstanding mortgage balance without incurring an ERC.
The agent went on to say that if Mr B and Ms E sold their property within 90 days of the 
product rate ending, only 2% of the remaining 10% of the mortgage balance would be 
charged as an ERC. She calculated that to be £1,088.47. Where she was unclear, was in 
emphasising that this was conditional on 90% of the outstanding balance being paid within 
those last 90 days, and therefore before the mortgage was redeemed. Barclays accept this 
was the information given. 
At that point in time I accept Mr B and Ms E were led to believe the ERC would have been 
the lesser sum. However, they received a number of redemption statements thereafter 
showing the correct ERC. Mr B and Ms E feel this is not a point of inconsistency with their 
complaint argument since in the main those statements were not within the last 90 or 30 
days of the product rate ending. Mr B and Ms E do however accept that they asked their 
solicitor in June to request a further redemption statement within the last 90 days, which 
he/she did, and which was received on 18 July. That statement showed the correct ERC 
figure although this was again not as Mr B and Ms E had expected, and so a further 
statement was requested to specifically show the reduced ERC of £1,088.47. When that 
statement arrived on 28 July it too showed the correct ERC of £10,884.74. At this point Mr B 
spoke directly with Barclays who confirmed that it was the higher ERC which was payable.
Mr B and Ms E redeemed their mortgage in mid-August and did so knowing what the ERC 
was going to be. I understand Mr Bs point that they delayed their sale so that they would fall 
into the 90-day period and that they incurred costs associated with the sale. But those costs 
would have been incurred whenever the sale happened, and there was always going to be a 
sale because they had separated and were going their separate ways. So, they have not 
incurred any loss in sale costs. 
Overall, I do agree that Barclays agent was unclear in the April call and this gave Mr B and 
Ms E a false expectation, but only for a very short period, that the ERC was going to be of a 
lesser amount. That position was corrected by the provision of the correct redemption 
statements, and although Mr B and Ms E continued to believe the lower ERC was still 
applicable they did, by the 28 July, understand that was not so. Had Mr B and Ms E received 
clear advice about the ERC in April it is more than likely that they would still have sold their 
property and would therefore have incurred the higher ERC.
Barclays has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it offered to 
compensate Mr B and Ms E with £200. As Mr B and Ms E didnt think that was enough to put 
matters right, Ive given this some further thought to assess whether that offer was fair and 
reasonable. When this service considers what an appropriate level of compensation might 
be, we consider a variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience 
that may have been caused. We categorise awards and examples of these can be found on 
our website. 
What is important to remember is that there is no set figure, since the facts of each case are 
different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the circumstances of the 
case and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the effect upon the 
complainant of any particular service failures.So, having weighed up all the evidence, I think the offer made by Barclays is a fair and 
reasonable recompense for effect of the service failures upon Mr B and Ms E.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay Mr B and Ms E £200 to settle this 
complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that it should pay 
Mr B and Ms E £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms E to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman