DRN-2931502
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about their motor insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc in respect of 
a claim they made to it following a third-party car reversing into theirs.
What happened
A few days before Christmas 2018 Mr and Mrs Ps car was damaged when a third-party 
reversed into them in a car park. The police attended the scene taking statements from 
Mr and Mrs P and an independent witness but the third-party car and driver had left. 
Mr and Mrs P asked the supermarket for CCTV footage and were told their insurer would 
have to apply for it. Mr and Mrs P made a claim to AXA, advising it that there was likely 
footage of the incident and that the police had taken statements.
AXA began investigating. It contacted the third party insurer (TPI) and appointed a repair 
garage to deal with Mr and Mrs Ps car. But Mr and Mrs P were reluctant to go ahead with 
repairs as they wanted the position on liability to be established first. 
In January 2019 AXA said it needed to obtain a statement from the independent witness, 
and whilst it had contacted them it hadnt received a reply. Mr and Mrs P reminded AXA that 
there was possibility of CCTV footage and that the police had a statement from the witness.
In April 2019 AXA said it could do no more until the witness responded to it. It said the TPI 
was insistent their policyholder had no knowledge of the incident. 
In October 2019, following further chases and queries being raised by Mr and Mrs P, still no 
contact from the witness being received and AXA paying Mr and Mrs P £200 compensation 
for delays; AXA felt it might be worthwhile approaching the police for details. It was 
August/September 2020 before this enquiry progressed at all. Whilst the police later said it 
had sent a copy of its report to AXA in September 2020, AXA seemingly didnt receive this 
as it kept chasing the police. But in January 2021 AXA decided it was just going to close the 
claim. When Mr and Mrs P asked it what they were to do with their car  which had now 
been off the road for sometime, unrepaired and waiting to be sold  AXA said it hadnt had a 
claim for the car under the policy.
Mr and Mrs P then approached the police themselves. The police sent them a copy of its 
report which they forwarded to AXA. AXA replied stating the report did not determine liability 
for the incident, it just had your statement along with the statement of the witness. AXA 
confirmed the claim was closed.
Our investigator felt AXA hadnt done anything wrong. He said AXA had to keep claim costs 
down so it was reasonable for it to not have initially applied for the police report. And he felt it 
may never have been able to obtain the CCTV footage. Regarding the repairs he noted 
Mr and Mrs P had chosen not to progress these, so he didnt feel he could blame AXA for 
the car not being sold and having deteriorated.
Mr and Mrs P remained of the view that AXA could and should have done more. Their 
complaint was passed to me to progress. I felt AXA could and should have done more. But 
I didnt think it was liable for the car not being repaired, not being sold and having 
deteriorated. I said it seemed this claim had likely currently been recorded as notification 
only, but that if Mr and Mrs P progressed with their claim for repair of their car, AXA should 
record it as non-fault. I set out my views in a provisional decision to which the parties have 
now responded. 
Mr and Mrs P said that whilst they still felt they were left at a loss, they viewed my findings 
as presenting a reasonable conclusion to the complaint. AXA said it didnt agree with the 
outcome Id suggested. In summary AXA said:
It had tried on numerous occasions to obtain the witness statement.
It accepted it should have asked for the police report sooner but felt that, in the end, the 
police report hadnt supported the claim at all and so it hadnt added anything to the 
claim outcome.
The claim can only be recorded as non-fault if its claims outlay of £35.20 is reimbursed 
by Mr and Mrs P. Otherwise, regardless of whether or not they ask it to repair their car, it 
will show as a fault claim.
Its important the claim record reflects the fact it is a fault claim against Mr and Mrs P so 
that future insurers can accurately assess the risk Mr and Mrs P present. Thats because 
it has been unable to establish that a third-party was at fault.
It accepted that its failure to get the police report sooner would have been frustrating for 
Mr and Mrs P, so it would agree to pay further compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
liability
Insurers do have a duty to limit claim costs, and sometimes obtaining some evidence is 
difficult, with that evidence, in the end, not assisting in determining the question at hand. But 
AXA has never said either of these things were issues for it here. And there is always a 
balance to be struck between limiting outlay, including that related to spending time and 
effort, and dealing appropriately and effectively with a claim. From the outset here AXA knew 
there were two relatively simple lines of enquiry it could follow  the police and the CCTV 
footage. But it only sought to approach the police ten months after the incident and it never 
looked into obtaining the CCTV footage. Perhaps more frustratingly for Mr and Mrs P, when 
they went to efforts themselves to get the police report, which contained exactly the 
information AXA had been wanting and waiting for, AXA dismissed the report as adding no 
worth to its enquiries. I think if AXA had approached the police and the supermarket within 
the first month after the incident occurred this claim would have progressed very differently. 
It would still have taken time as getting police reports often takes quite a while  but wed be 
talking months, not years. 
I cant, obviously, be certain as to whether the witness statement within the police report 
would have been enough to convince the TPI to concede full liability. But as AXA hasnt 
even tried to progress this since definitely having full sight of the report earlier this year, Im 
prepared to make a decision in this respect. Thats because I think its too late now and this has been going on too long for me to say the fair and reasonable outcome is for AXA to 
review the liability aspect. I say that also as AXAs delays mean that obtaining the CCTV 
footage or further comment from the witness should such be felt necessary, would likely be 
impossible. So my view, at this time is that AXA has to view this incident as though the 
third-party insurer has accepted liability. At this stage, from what AXA has said, I think its 
likely its logged this incident as a notification only. If Mr and Mrs P have AXA repair the 
accident damage (see below), that category will change  AXA in my view should record it 
as non-fault.
I accept that AXA did try to obtain the witness statement on a number of occasions. But even 
though AXA had been given a clear and relatively simple route to obtaining this  via the 
police report  it didnt pursue this course for many months. And now, having seen the police 
report, and even though this includes the witness statement which AXA maintains was 
absolutely necessary for it to pursue the liability issue with the third party, AXA says the 
report adds no worth to the claim (because it makes no determination on liability). 
I think having an independent witness statement in respect of a claim like this would be 
significant in establishing blame. And AXA hasnt provided any argument which might show 
that, in this case, this statement is unlikely to be helpful in this respect. Mr and Mrs Ps claim 
record should be accurate. But Im not persuaded its fair for them to bear the burden of 
having a fault claim logged against them where AXA hasnt handled the claim well enough 
to truly establish the fault was likely theirs. I think, based on everything Ive seen, it seems 
most likely that if AXA had handled things better, this situation would have resolved with the 
claim being recorded as non-fault. The fact that this cant be achieved now and that the 
small sum of £35.20 will remain unrecovered doesnt mean its reasonable for them to suffer 
the consequences that will result from a fault claim being detailed on their record. Which will 
include how other insurers view the risk they present. So, to ensure Mr and Mrs Ps position 
is not negatively affected by AXAs failure, if Mr and Mrs P dont pursue repair of their car, 
then the claim should be recorded as a notification only. And if Mr and Mrs P do pursue the 
repair claim then the record can be changed to non-fault.
My provisional findings continued: 
repairs
Im unsure why AXA has said to Mr and Mrs P they did not make a claim for repairs. AXA 
certainly acted initially as though there was a repair claim in place because it appointed a 
repairing garage. And whilst it seems to be the case that Mr and Mrs P wanted to place a 
hold on those repairs  I havent seen that they ever withdrew their claim. So if Mr and Mrs P 
want AXA to repair their car, it should. However, any repair would be limited to the accident 
damage and not to any unrelated deterioration the car has suffered from since (see my 
paragraphs below). Also any repairs will be subject to the policy excess. This was something 
they should always have paid, and whilst AXA should have claimed this back from the TPI, 
assuming for a minute it had effectively established liability, the TPI insurer covering the cost 
of Mr and Mrs Ps excess was never a forgone conclusion. 
deterioration
I appreciate that sometime after the accident Mr and Mrs P stopped using the car; they 
wanted to sell it but as it was still not repaired they felt they couldnt do so. The car has 
remained parked since and hasnt been driven. Mr and Mrs P say they will likely incur costs 
to get it roadworthy again, including a new MOT. 
I appreciate this experience has been frustrating for Mr and Mrs P. And as Ive noted above, 
AXA did not handle it well. But AXA did give them a chance to have the car fixed not long after the incident occurred. And at the point they wanted to sell it they could have reviewed 
their decision to not complete the repairs unless/until liability was established. The balance 
for them was weighing up the cost of repair (assuming they didnt want AXA to do it with 
liability outstanding) and the benefit of achieving the sale of the car. Im not persuaded that 
because they chose to not progress the repairs, and therefore not sell the car, that I can 
reasonably blame AXA for the foreseeable consequences of that action  the condition of 
the car deteriorating. So Im not going to require AXA to repair the car, or pay for any costs 
associated with getting it roadworthy again necessary because it hasnt been used for a 
prolonged period.
compensation
I think this has been a frustrating time for Mr and Mrs P. They gave AXA all the details it 
needed to progress their claim, but it failed to do so, again and again. I do think if AXA had 
done more in early 2019 the situation would likely have resolved by the end of 2019 at the 
latest. I certainly dont think it would have been an ongoing matter as 2020 turned into 2021 
as it was. But I note that at no time were Mr and Mr P without use of a car and whilst the car 
remaining in their ownership for so long after they wanted to sell it has been a source of 
irritation for them, Im satisfied AXA is not responsible for that. I see that in October 2019 
AXA paid Mr and Mrs P £200 compensation for the upset caused by it claim handling to that 
point. I think a further £250 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. 
Neither of the parties objected to these provisional findings. So Ive no need to comment on 
them further.
Putting things right
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
If Mr and Mrs P want it to, and subject to them paying the policy excess, progress the 
claim for repair of their car for the damage caused in the initial incident.
If Mr and Mrs P progress with repairing the accident damage, the claim should be 
recorded non-fault. But if the repair claim is not progressed the claim log should show a 
notification only.
Pay Mr and Mrs P a further £250 compensation (making total compensation £450).
My final decision
Im minded to uphold this complaint. I intend to require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 August 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman