DRN-2978418
The complaint
Miss M complains about the service she received from Lloyds Bank PLC. Shes unhappy 
with the delay and the service she experienced when she tried to make a Section 75 claim in 
connection with a wedding package shed purchased.
What happened
In January 2020 and March 2020, Miss M booked and paid for a wedding venue package 
costing just over £3,200 using her Lloyds credit card. The wedding was due to take place in 
June 2020. Miss M says that because of the pandemic and the government restrictions, the 
venue was unable to provide the services shed paid for.
Miss M says that although attempts were made to find a mutually agreeable alternative, 
these werent successful. Miss M says the wedding package provider wouldnt provide a 
refund, so she contacted Lloyds to ask it to consider a claim under Section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. She told us:
She contacted Lloyds on 1 May, but it wasnt until 30 June that she received an 
acknowledgment from the bank and a request for information and documentation to 
support her claim;
it shouldnt have taken Lloyds two months to contact her  an automated letter 
shouldve been triggered the day she first submitted her claim;
she had to chase the bank on a number of occasions to get updates on progress and 
to understand what her options were, but the bank kept giving her excuses about 
how busy it was due to the pandemic;
the banks advice to her was to contact it via the chat function in its mobile app  but 
the app constantly crashed, requiring her to uninstall it and then reinstall it again;
she ended up using the small claims court process and obtained an immediate 
refund from the wedding venue package provider, but she says shes out of pocket 
for legal fees and small claims court fees;
Lloyds offered her £75 compensation, but she wants it to pay her small claims costs.
Miss M says shes unhappy with the delays and poor service shes received from Lloyds 
together with the lack of information and the inaccuracy of what it told her. She says since 
the day the UK lockdown started, Lloyds couldve recruited, trained and onboarded an 
entire call centre worth of staff to deal with said backlogsI absolutely dont accept that 
these delays are in any way acceptable; and she doesnt think the banks offer of £75 
compensation is sufficient.
Lloyds upheld Miss Ms original complaint, apologised for the service it had provided, and it 
offered Miss M £75 compensation in recognition of this - but it says Miss M hadnt accepted 
its offer. It said it wouldnt pay anything towards Miss Ms legal fees or small claims costs 
because this was a course of action that shed chosen to follow.
Lloyds explained that its disputes team had been extremely busy at the time Miss M first 
made her claim, and it said that in complying with the Governments guidance, it had far 
fewer staff at its offices which meant it took longer than normal for customers to speak to 
someone.
It said it had first been able to review the disputed transactions on 24 June, but there was 
insufficient information to enable it to raise a chargeback or Section 75 claim in line with 
regulations. It said it had requested additional information from Miss M, but it had not 
received any further information from her so it couldnt proceed further with the claim. It said 
it continued to monitor the claim and had noted that on 3 July, the dispute was resolved and, 
as a result, no further action was required.
Lloyds also said it had looked into Miss Ms comments about its mobile banking app. Its 
audit trail showed that when Miss M uninstalled the app and then reinstalled it, shed not 
completed the process because shed failed to register her device again.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and explained the ways in which banks can assist 
their customers when there are issues with goods or services not being provided, and she 
said it was reasonable for a bank to request certain information from consumers when it sets 
up a claim.
She said that the seven weeks it took Lloyds to respond to Miss Ms initial claim and request 
additional information wasnt reasonable, and she acknowledged that this wouldve caused 
Miss M some frustration. But she went on to say that she didnt think Lloyds could be held 
responsible for Miss Ms court costs or legal fees; it was Miss Ms decision to pursue her 
claim in this way.
Our investigator also acknowledged the impact the pandemic had had on Lloyds operations 
and the operational challenges it faced during this period. And, taking all this into account, 
she thought the £75 compensation offered by Lloyds was fair and in line with what she 
wouldve recommended.
Miss M disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. Miss M says she doesnt think 
the offer of £75 is sufficient she wants a payment that reflects the poor service she received 
and takes account of the fees she incurred in taking her case to the small claims court.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Miss M wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. Miss M should 
note, however, that although I may not address each individual point that shes raised, I have 
given careful consideration to all of her submissions before arriving at my decision.
Having taken everything into consideration, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Miss M received from Lloyds. This is because although Miss M disputed payments shed 
made using her Lloyds credit card, both parties have now confirmed that Miss M received a 
full refund from the wedding package provider.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Mastercards. In 
certain circumstances the process provides a way for Lloyds to ask for a payment Miss M 
made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied 
by the company Miss M paid or they werent as described by the supplier.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.
Alternatively, or in addition, a bank can go on to consider whether there has been a breach 
of contract (or misrepresentation) under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. Section 75 
says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right 
to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier of goods or services.
Its important to note that neither a chargeback or Section 75 claim are a guarantee that a 
consumer will recover their funds. Its not uncommon for a bank to deal with a customer 
dispute by raising a chargeback first and then, if that is declined, to consider whether a valid 
claim exists under Section 75. Usually, it wont make too much of a difference as to which 
route a bank follows, so long as the bank acts fairly and reasonably in assisting its customer 
to recover their funds.
When considering a section 75 or chargeback claim a bank will want to ensure it has the 
best evidence available to it to do so, as this will firstly allow the bank to assess whether a 
chargeback right exists or whether there is a valid Section 75 claim. Having the necessary 
documentation may also be a requirement under certain chargeback grounds and will also
improve a consumers chance of the chargeback being successful. But where a consumer 
cant provide that information with good reason, then I think it is important for a bank to look 
at what it does have and consider if a chargeback can be raised.
In this case, it appears that Miss M has ultimately not been provided with the goods and 
services that she originally paid for. And in normal circumstances, it would seem reasonable 
to expect Lloyds to raise a claim for her.
Its not unusual for chargebacks and Section 75 claims to take some time to process. It can 
take time for a bank to gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the 
claim, and the banks need to give suppliers time to respond to any claim, in case they want 
to dispute it.
In this particular case, Miss M received her refund from the wedding package provider 
shortly after she commenced small claims proceedings, and within seven weeks of her initial 
contact with Lloyds. So even if Lloyds had raised a claim when Miss M first contacted it, I 
dont think she wouldve received a refund any sooner. Im therefore not persuaded that 
Miss M has lost out because of what Lloyds didnt do, and I cant ask the bank to pay 
Miss Ms other costs.
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Miss M. 
Shed booked and paid a considerable sum for a wedding package, and from what shes told 
us, having to cancel her booking and her experience trying to reach a mutually agreeable 
alternative with the provider wouldve understandably caused her some anxiety. 
But I cant hold Lloyds responsible for any of this because the initial problems were caused 
by the wedding package provider, and then compounded by the pandemic.I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances. It was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Miss M first contacted Lloyds, dealing 
with significant numbers of enquiries from consumers looking to get money back as the 
global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were 
relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at 
a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
Ive noted that Lloyds has already offered Miss M £75 in recognition of the poor service it 
gave her after she first contacted it. And although I wouldve expected Lloyds to identify 
vulnerable customers who may need more immediate support and help, from the information 
I have, I dont think Miss M fell into this category. So, for the reasons Ive given, I think £75 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Im going to ask Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Miss M the compensation it offered her, if it hasnt 
already done so. Thats the £75 in recognition of the poor service it provided. I think this is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and I dont think 
Lloyds Bank PLC needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Miss M 
£75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman