DRN-3761195
The complaint
Ms R says Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo), didnt do enough to help when she fell victim to an 
investment scam. She says Monzo should reimburse her for the money she lost.
What happened
In summary, Ms R fell victim to an investment scam. Ms Rs friends social media account 
showed they had purchased a new car and had been able to do so through investing. Ms R 
was then referred on to a trading/investment mentor. Unfortunately Ms Rs friends social 
media account had been hacked and Ms R had in fact been duped by fraudsters. Ms R was 
enticed by the fraudsters to trade with the promise of high returns in a short space of time. 
On 18 December 2021, Ms R made a card payment of £1,000 for the supposed investor to 
trade on her behalf. And then later in the day, Ms R made a further card payment of £1,500 
in order to withdraw her profits. 
When Ms R didnt receive her profits, she realised she had been the victim of a scam. 
Ms R reported the matter and made a formal complaint to Monzo. Monzo didnt uphold 
Ms Rs complaint, as it considered it had carried out all internal and regulatory 
responsibilities. In short it didnt consider it was liable for Ms Rs losses.
Unhappy, Ms R brought her complaint to our service. 
The complaint was initially viewed by an Investigator who didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Unfortunately they had to take an extended period out of the office  and so the 
complaint was reassigned to another Investigator. The subsequent investigator, as a matter 
of good practice, reviewed the complaint again and reached the same opinion. They didnt 
consider the complaint should be upheld.
In short, across the two opinions, it was concluded that the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (often referred to as the CRM code) wasnt relevant in Ms Rs case as the CRM 
Code is in relation to faster payments and not card payments. And both investigators 
considered the payments Ms R had made were authorised by her and they didnt think 
Monzo should have carried out any additional checks on the payments before carrying out 
Ms Rs instructions. Overall they didnt consider the payments were remarkable enough to 
warrant any further intervention by Monzo. 
Ms R ultimately disagreed with the Investigators opinion and thought more should have 
been done by Monzo to prevent her losses.
As Ms R disagreed with the Investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail than 
has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
Monzo should have done more to prevent Ms Rs losses. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts. 
Having thought very carefully about Monzos actions, Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her. Ms R was a victim of a scam. But in 
weighing everything up, I dont think I can fairly say Monzo should reimburse her. Ill explain 
why.
Before I go on to explain my findings, I want to clarify for Ms Rs benefit why the CRM Code 
isnt applicable in her case and what the relevant law and regulations were at the time.
Why the CRM Code isnt applicable
The CRM Code was implemented to further combat and prevent the increase of fraud. But 
the CRM Code is explicit in that it only covers a transfer of funds executed across Faster 
Payments, CHAPS or an internal book transfer between GBP-denominated, UK-domiciled 
accounts. Here the payments Ms R made were card payments  so they arent covered by 
or within the scope of the CRM Code. 
The relevant law and regulations in place at the time 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
It is agreed by all parties that Ms R made the card payments herself. So it is the case that 
Ms R authorised the card payments that are in dispute. And under the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) that means Ms R is 
responsible for them. That remains the case even though Ms R was the unfortunate victim of 
a scam.There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Monzo have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
What does this mean for Ms R?
In this case, I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Ms R when she made the card payments, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. Having done so, I cant fairly say the card payments Ms R 
made would (or should) have alerted Monzo that Ms R was at risk of financial harm to an 
extent whereby it should have carried out some additional checks before processing the 
payments. So I dont consider Monzo are liable for the losses Ms R incurred. Ill explain why.
Banks process a high volume of transfers and transactions each day. And a bank has to 
strike a balance as to when it should possibly intervene on a payment against not holding up 
or delaying its customers requests.
Here the card payments were for £1,000 and then later in the day £1,500. I dont consider 
there is anything unusual or remarkable about the card payments or the amounts that ought 
to have alerted Monzo to the possibility Ms R was being scammed or was at risk of financial 
harm. And I think it was reasonable for the payments not to warrant any additional checks by 
Monzo. These were payments that were made by card, were authorised using 3DS and 
were going to an authorised merchant. A proportionate response, given the amount, might 
have been for Monzo to double check that it was indeed Ms R who had authorised them and 
hadnt had her card stolen. And this is typically completed through SMS or in-chat functions 
etc But importantly I dont think the payments would have alerted Monzo that Ms R was at 
risk of financial harm, to the degree that it would have needed to intervene further. Lots of 
customers make one-off larger transactions, and while a larger transaction than Ms R had 
made previously  this payment wasnt so remarkable on the whole that Monzo would have 
been able to identify it as potentially suspicious. 
Overall, I dont think there were grounds for Monzo to be suspicious Ms R may be a victim of 
fraud when she made the card payments to such an extent where I would have expected 
them to intervene and question her further about them. All things considered, I think the fact 
that Monzo didnt flag the transfers as suspicious was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Finally, within its final response letter to Ms R, I can see that Monzo explored the 
chargeback process for Ms R. Having reviewed this aspect, I cant say Monzo acted unfairly 
by not raising a chargeback. This was due to Mastercards rules regarding chargebacks, the 
merchant that the card payments went to (who had provided their service) and the nature of 
the claim (that Ms R was the victim of a scam) meaning there was no reasonable prospect of 
success through the Mastercard chargeback scheme.
In summary, while I appreciate Ms Rs been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think 
Monzos decision not to refund her in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because Monzo followed Ms Rs instructions to make the card 
payments and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And there wasnt 
any reasonable prospect of success through a chargeback under the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme. So there wasnt anything further Monzo could do to help Ms R recover 
her funds.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman