DRN-3688322
The complaint
A company, which I will call D complains about Advisory Insurance Brokers (trading as 
Towergate Underwriting  Towergate)s administration and handling of their buildings 
insurance policy.
Ms R has brought the complaint on behalf of D, so I will refer to her below.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From considering Ms Rs comments, it appears she would like our service to review how D 
has been treated by Towergate as a whole  and to assist in ongoing matters she has 
regarding the administration of Ds policy. I appreciate the issues Ms R has described have 
caused distress for her and for this she has my natural sympathy.  But Ms R may 
misunderstand the role of this service - it is not to police or review how a business 
undertakes its everyday activities or conduct investigations into how a customer has been 
treated through the life of their relationship with a business. 
The role of this service is to look into individual complaints and provide an impartial opinion 
on whether anything has gone wrong. Towergate provided a final response to Ms Rs 
complaint in May 2022. My decision only considers events up until that date. This isnt meant 
as a discourtesy but is in line with the powers our service has to consider complaints.
Im not upholding this complaint for these reasons:
Ds policy was due to renew at the end of March 2022, Towergate sent a renewal 
invitation to Ms R around 15 days prior to this. Its common for an insurer to send a 
renewal invite within a month of the policy renewal date, so I dont find this 
unreasonable.
Administration of the policy had recently passed to Towergate, and the previous 
insurance product was no longer available. Towergate provided Ms R with the 
renewal. Ms R has said there were inaccuracies in the information, which she 
corrected and provided to Towergate.
Ms R has said she was asked for information Towergate should have already been in 
receipt of during calls. However, it appears it required further information about D as 
it was not able to provide cover on a like for like basis.  While I can understand this 
would have been frustrating for Ms R, I think it was reasonable for Towergate to 
ensure it had all of the necessary information in order to provide the correct cover. 
I can understand why Ms R chose to pay the renewal despite the ongoing issues, 
and why she did so using the account details she previously held. But Im not 
persuaded these were provided to her by Towergate and therefore I cant hold it 
responsible for the fact the payment wasnt received by them and the additional 
inconvenience Ms R was caused in retrieving that payment.
Towergate accepted it failed on several occasions to action information provided by 
Ms R and it has caused avoidable delays in the process of the policy renewal. It has 
offered D £150 in compensation for the inconvenience caused. Considering the 
circumstances, and timeframe Ive set out above, I think this is in the region of what I 
think is a fair amount to reflect the inconvenience caused to D.  
While I realise Ms R herself was caused trouble and upset in having to deal with 
these matters, as this complaint is being made on behalf of D as a legal entity, Ms R 
is not an eligible complainant and as such I cant consider how this matter personally 
impacted her. 
Ms R has told our service of ongoing issues with Towergate not showing accurate 
information on the policy. If she remains unhappy with Towergate, she may wish to 
raise a further complaint, and if not satisfied with its response, she can consider 
bringing a further complaint to our service. However, while its reasonable for 
Towergate to ensure the information provided by Ms R is correct, Insurers are able to 
decide the terms under which they wish to provide insurance cover. And it isnt for 
this service to interfere in those terms.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman