DRN-2985403
The complaint
Ms B complains that a shed that she bought and paid for with her Post Office credit card 
now administered by JAJA Finance Ltd  is not fit for purpose. 
What happened
In June 2019 Ms B bought a garden shed at a cost of just under £2,800. She paid for it with 
her Post Office credit card. It was installed by the manufacturer, who said it needed a 
concrete base. That cost Ms B a further £1,200.
Once the shed was installed, Ms B says that she had problems with its door. It did not fit 
properly and the lock did not line up. That meant that the shed was not secure. The retailer 
would not however agree to any remedial action or to accept the return of the shed. Ms B 
referred her claim to JAJA Finance.
Ms B arranged for an inspection and a report to be prepared by a surveyor. That report 
noted that the shed door would contract in dry weather and expand in wet weather. The 
result was that there were unacceptable gaps around the door in the summer and that it 
would not close in the winter. The surveyor suggested that the wood used for the door had 
not been properly treated.
He also recorded that the manufacturer suggested the wood would acclimatise over time. 
The retailer on the other hand said that replacing the door would not rectify the problem.
Ms B referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
expressed some concerns about the impartiality of the surveyor and concluded that he was 
not persuaded that there was a problem with the shed. He did not recommend that JAJA 
Finance do anything to put matters right. Ms B did not accept the investigators opinion and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from the investigator, 
issued a provisional decision. In that provisional decision I said:
Ms B paid for the shed using her credit card issued by JAJA Finance. Because of that, 
the effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in this case is that if she has a 
claim for breach of contract against the retailer, she has a like claim against JAJA 
Finance.
In its response to Ms Bs claim, JAJA Finance sought information about the terms of the 
contract with the retailer, amongst other things. But this was a consumer contract, so 
under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the contract was to be read as including a term 
that the shed would be of satisfactory quality  which includes fitness for purpose.
Ms B has explained the issues she has experienced with the shed door. The surveyor 
has suggested that these are consistent with the wood not having been treated or 
seasoned properly and observed the shrinking of the wood himself.
Our investigator noted that the surveyor is known to Ms B and said that the photographs 
attached to the report were not very clear. On the first point, I am inclined to agree that 
the surveyor cannot be said to be genuinely independent  in the way I would expect of 
a court expert, for example. However, none of the other parties involved  the retailer, 
manufacturer or JAJA Finance  has provided any evidence to contradict what is in his 
report. Ms B has said that they are welcome to inspect the shed if they wish, but they 
have not done so. So, whilst I have some reservations about the report, I do not believe 
I should simply disregard it; this service is not bound by the same rules as a court would 
be.
I also note that the retailer has commented that replacing the door (presumably on a 
like-for-like basis) would be unlikely to resolve the issue. That might suggest a problem 
with the doors material or construction  consistent with it not being of satisfactory 
quality.
I also agree that the photographs do not clearly demonstrate what Ms B and the 
surveyor says they show. It may be that they can provide clearer pictures; if so, I will 
consider them.
Despite those reservations, I think that on balance Ms B has shown that the shed door 
does not fit properly because it expands and shrinks too much. In saying that, I accept 
that wood can expand and contract in different weather conditions; I think however that 
Ms B was entitled to expect her shed door to close properly and to be able to lock it.
I have therefore considered what an appropriate remedy might be. A removal of the 
shed and a full refund does not appear to me to be appropriate, or indeed necessary. 
Rather, I think it would be fair for Ms B to be put in a position where she can replace the 
shed door with one of a suitable material and quality such that it will not expand or 
contract excessively.
I will consider any further evidence on what that might cost, but I have based my 
provisional award on the assumption that a bespoke unit will be required at a cost of 
around £1,200.
I should comment as well that I believe that JAJA Finances approach to Ms Bs 
complaint has not been as helpful as I think it could have been. I propose therefore to 
include some further compensation in recognition of that.
Ms B accepted my provisional findings but JAJA did not. It said that it was not clear if any 
faults were the result of faulty installation or whether the underlying contract included 
installation. It noted too that no complaint had been made until a year after installation and 
that Ms B had not supplied a genuinely independent report. No evidence had been provided 
that a replacement door would cost £1,200.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I commented in my provisional decision on the independence of the report that Ms B 
provided. I agreed that it was not independent in the way that an experts report in court 
action might be. I also noted that Ms B had indicated that JAJA could inspect the shed and 
commission its own report if it so wished. 
The report and the retailers own response to Ms Bs complaint had indicated that there was 
a problem with the doors material or construction. That is consistent with the complaint being about the quality of goods, not with the sheds installation. So, it makes no difference 
whether the contract was for the supply of the shed alone or for its supply and installation. 
The contract was to be read as including a term that the shed would be of satisfactory 
quality. In my view, the most likely cause of the problems Ms B has reported is that the shed 
itself was defective.  
I note too that JAJA has said that the burden of proof is on Ms B  meaning that it is for Ms B 
to show that it was defective, not for the retailer to show that it wasnt. That is of course the 
usual position in court. This service is not however bound by the same rules of evidence as 
a court would be. Be that as it may, I believe Ms B has shown that the shed was not of 
satisfactory quality. 
I do not accept that Ms B refused to engage with the retailer in this case. She invited the 
retailer to inspect the shed. As I noted in my provisional decision, she made the same offer 
to JAJA. In my view, JAJA has had the opportunity to provide alternative evidence, both 
about the quality of the shed and about the proposed remedy. Since it has not done so, 
there is little to challenge the evidence that Ms B has produced  limited though it is.
Putting things right
As far as the remedy is concerned, I explained in my provisional decision that the figure of 
£1,200 was based on an assumption about the likely cost of a bespoke replacement door. It 
was open to JAJA to provide a lower estimate  just as Ms B could have provided a higher 
one. But neither party has shown that assumption to be incorrect.          
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that, to resolve Ms Bs complaint in full, JAJA Finance 
Ltd should:
pay Ms B £1,200 to enable her to replace the shed door; and
pay her a further £200 in recognition of the inconvenience she has suffered and the 
inconvenience to which she has been put.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman