DRN-2808972
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as E has complained that complained that Aviva Insurance 
Limited unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted 
by the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr R, a director of E, has brought the complaint on Es behalf. 
E has been helped in bringing its complaint by a representative. However, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of E.
Reference to Aviva will also include anything done by its agent. 
What happened
E held a business interruption insurance policy with Aviva. E claimed on its policy after its
business was impacted by the Governments actions in response to Covid-19. E said it was 
permitted to stay open but needed to put stringent measures in place. It then decided to 
close due to a reduction in demand following the closure of its customers businesses. 
Aviva turned down the claim. It said the core business interruption section of the policy and 
other terms all required there to have been damage to property and Covid-19 hadnt 
damaged property. As E was unhappy with Avivas response it brought its complaint to our 
service.
E thinks that various parts of the policy provide cover. Ive set out its reasoning for this 
below.
Damage
E said that Covid-19, as well as actions taken to prevent its spread, had caused damage to 
its property as it was unable to use it. It said the definition of physical loss, destruction or 
damage hadnt been defined further in the policy and that the natural meaning of this 
definition is that the policy covers losses to Es business caused by Covid-19. E added, that 
physical in this definition only relates to loss and not to destruction or damage. Therefore, 
it doesnt think E needs to show there has been a physical loss. 
E referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020) to support 
its view and said where the policy is ambiguous it should be resolved in the favour of the 
insured. 
Unspecified customers
E said the severe restrictions placed on its customers premises constituted damage and 
their closure impacted Es business. 
Prevention of access
E said that the forced closure of businesses within a one mile radius severely restricted 
access to, and the ordinary use of, its premises.
Other issues
E said the policy doesnt exclude pandemics or forced Government shutdown and Aviva 
should have made these limitations clear when selling the policy.
E also said that it had expected to be covered following a statement made by the
Government towards the start of the pandemic and it had a reasonable expectation of being 
covered for a closure in these circumstances. 
E added that it had complied with all claims conditions. 
Initial assessment
Our investigator looked into Es complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought the 
policy would only respond if Covid-19 had caused damage to property and he didnt think it 
had caused damage to property. 
E disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on E. But I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Aviva have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Es claim.
E has made a number of detailed points; however, I dont intend to address them all and will
instead comment on what I consider to be the central issues to this complaint.
Damage
The core business interruption section of Es policy says:
We will cover You for any interruption or interference with The Business resulting 
from Damage to property used by You at The Premises for the purpose of The 
Business occurring during the Period of Insurance caused by the Contingences 
stated in The Schedule
Damage is defined as physical loss, destruction or damage.
E said that physical only applies to loss. Whether or not thats the case, for this to provide 
cover there would still need to be damage to property used by E at its premises. And I 
havent seen anything to persuade me that Covid-19 caused damage to property used by E 
at its premises.E has referred to MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020) which I understand
has been overturned by the court of appeal. In any event, Ive considered other cases which 
I think are more relevant to the circumstances of this complaint, including TKC London Ltd v 
Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v British Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 
2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or
altered state to Es property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible damage
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove a cause of
potential damage.
Even if SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present at Es premises, the
Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings doesnt recommend any
cleaning by a specialist. Theres also no evidence of an excessive amount of SARS-CoV-2
on Es property, and the presence of any particular virus isnt automatically damage. So I
dont think Covid-19 has damaged Es property.
I understand E thinks that the wording of the policy is ambiguous; however, I dont agree that 
its likely to be considered ambiguous. I think its clear that the policy requires physical loss, 
destruction or damage to property in order to provide cover. 
Unspecified customers
This term says:
We will provide cover for loss resulting from interruption of or interference with 
The Business as a result of damage at any of Your customers premises within 
the Prescribed Territories.
For this to provide cover, Es losses would need to be as a result of damage at its 
customers premises. While damage isnt capitalised in this context, I dont think the 
restrictions placed on Es customers premises would reasonably be considered damage at 
the premises for the reasons explained above. I havent seen anything else to indicate that 
Covid-19 caused damage at Es customers premises and therefore, I dont think this covers 
Es claim. 
Prevention of Access
This term says:
We will provide cover for loss resulting from interruption of or interference with 
The Business as a result of damage to property within the distance in miles, 
stated in The Schedule, of the boundary of The Premises which physically 
prevents or restricts access to or use of The Premises.
The schedule states that the distance is one mile. Therefore, this would require the loss to 
result from damage to property within one mile of Es premises which physically prevented or 
restricted access to the use of Es premises. 
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property within one mile 
of Es premises that physically prevented or restricted access to Es property, again for the 
reasons set out above. So, this doesnt cover Es claim either.
Other issuesAlthough E might have had an expectation that its claim would be covered, or understood 
the same from a Government announcement, whether that is the case would still depend on 
the wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I dont think Es policy provides cover 
for its claim. If E remains unhappy with the information provided at the sale of the policy, it 
would need to raise that separately.
I dont think its relevant that theres not an exclusion for pandemics, as there isnt a term that 
would provide cover for the circumstances of Es claim. I also dont think its relevant that E 
complied with the claims conditions, as the policy doesnt provide cover.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome E was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Aviva to pay its claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman