DRN-3702641
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) dealt with his request for 
help when his income reduced due to the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. 
What happened
In December 2017, Mr A was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Oodle. The agreement was for £17,388 over 60 months; with one payment of £323, 
followed by 58 monthly repayments of £273, and a final payment of £323.
In April 2020 Mr A contacted Oodle to ask about a payment holiday as his income had 
reduced due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  He said they agreed to give him a three month 
payment holiday, but was unhappy that theyd asked him to provide other documents which 
he said were unnecessary.
He said the payment holiday ended in July 2020. He said he delayed the payments in 
August 2020 and October 2020 because the day he received his pay was after the payment 
due date for this agreement.
He said he asked for a settlement figure at this time, but didnt proceed with this as it was 
more than he could afford.
He said the second and third lockdowns in 2020 caused him further financial difficulty. He 
said he made a payment on 1 December 2020, and then contacted Oodle later in the month 
to ask for another two month payment holiday. He said he completed an online form and 
was then contacted by a third party. He said he didnt provide the third party company with 
his financial information as he didnt know who they were. He said he discovered they were 
a bankruptcy and IVA provider, and this wasnt what he wanted or expected.
He said Oodle started calling him eight times a day. He said he couldnt answer as he was 
working as a lorry driver. 
He said he then received a default notice. He said this was a surprise as they hadnt offered 
him any assistance. He said Oodle told him he couldnt get another two month holiday as 
hed already had a three month holiday. He said he hadnt been able to provide them with 
bank statements because they wouldnt attach to his emails.
He said he made a payment on 1 March 2021. He said Oodle then visited him at his house 
on the evening of 5 March 2021. They said they hadnt been able to contact him, which he 
said wasnt true. Mr A said all of this contact made him feel they were harassing him.
Oodle said they gave Mr A a three month payment holiday from April 2020 to July 2020. 
They said they made several attempts to contact Mr A at the end of the period. They said he 
contacted them in August 2020 to ask for a settlement figure.
They said they contacted Mr A in October 2020 about his arrears. They agreed to change 
his payment date when he explained his pay date fell after the payment due date.
They said they wrote to Mr A after he missed the payments due in January 2021 and 
February 2021. They said theyd contacted him in line with their obligations when customers 
are in arrears, including sending a default notice. They explained that theyd asked for bank 
statements so that they could fully consider his financial situation after hed told them he was 
in financial difficulty.
Mr A was unhappy, so he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for 
investigation. He also complained that theyd visited him at his house.
Our investigator thought Oodle had acted fairly. He accepted that Oodle were entitled to
make enquiries into Mr As circumstances. He felt their requests were reasonable. He said it
was reasonable for them to send Mr A a notice of sums in arrears, because hed missed two
consecutive payments, and the account was already in arrears. He also accepted that it was
reasonable to visit Mr A at his house as he had missed payments and hadnt been in touch
with them.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. I sent Mr A and Oodle Financial 
Services Limited a provisional decision on 24 June 2022. In this decision I explained why I 
though the complaint should be upheld. Heres what I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it.
Payment deferral requests
The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance, 
that came into effect on 27 April 2020, for customers who were faced with payment 
difficulties as a result of Covid-19. The purpose of the guidance was to provide exceptional 
and immediate support to customers facing payment difficulties due to circumstances arising 
out of coronavirus.
It appears that Mr A contacted Oodle about the impact the Covid 19 pandemic had on his 
financial situation before the FCA issued its guidance for firms. He complained at the time 
that he didnt need to provide his bank statements to obtain a payment deferral. I can see 
that he was granted the deferral, without the need to provide the statements. Im satisfied 
that Oodle changed their approach after the FCA guidance was issued, so they havent done 
anything wrong.
The FCA issued updated guidance in November 2020. This stated that further payment 
deferrals should be considered up to the end of March 2021, and they should not extend 
beyond the end of July 2021.
Mr A told Oodle in December 2020 that he was having financial difficulties caused by the 
Covid 19 pandemic. He repeated this on 10 March 2021 when he explained he was partially 
furloughed. Oodle responded to his December 2020 by asking Mr A to provide financial 
information to a third party provider. For ease of reference Ill refer to this party as T. They 
said that T specialised in helping people get the support they needed when they were in 
financial difficulty.Mr T didnt want to use the services of T. Oodle eventually accepted this but required Mr A to 
provide information about his current financial situation, including his bank statements. After 
some correspondence back and forward, Oodle provided Mr A with the address to submit 
bank statements on 17 February 2021.
And on 18 February 2021 they contacted Mr A about his arrears, giving him 48 hours to take 
action. He contacted them on 22 February 2021 and told them again his income had been 
affected by the Covid 19 pandemic.
By this point I wouldve expected Oodle to have offered Mr A another payment holiday. I say 
this because the guidance issued by the FCA in November 2020 was clear that businesses 
like Oodle should provide further support to those customers still in financial difficulty, and 
who have not received six months payment deferral.
The guidance said that firms should ask customers like Mr A, if theyd like a payment 
deferral if the customer suggested they were experiencing temporary payment difficulties. 
This is exactly what happened Mr A did, but Oodle didnt make that offer.
Instead they sought more information, and I dont think that was necessary. Mr A had 
contacted them in December 2020 and shouldve been offered a deferral at that point. The 
intention of the FCA guidance was to provide prompt assistance to customers in short term 
difficulty. Without the need for detailed additional checks before agreeing a payment 
deferral. And if they did require further information that should not delay the provision of 
additional support.
So I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Oodle to insist on Mr A providing further 
information. They had sufficient information about Mr A, including that he hadnt missed 
payments up to that point.
So I think they couldve offered a payment deferral for January 2021 and February 2021. If 
this had happened it would have given Mr A the time he required to sort out his finances, 
including considering how he could pay the arrears accrued during the two payment deferral 
periods.
Arrears
Mr A has accrued arrears from the first payment deferral period, and from the missed 
payments. These arrears are due. The guidance from the FCA states that:
where a customer can resume full repayments after a payment deferral, but is 
unable to pay the deferred amounts immediately and in full, the firm should allow 
them to repay the deferred amounts over the remaining term of the agreement or 
allow a longer period for repayment.
It also states that when doing this the firm should consider what is most in the customers 
interests.
The guidance also allows firms to use information in order to understand the customers 
financial situation following the payment deferral period. It allows firms like Oodle to use 
information it already holds, or information provide by other sources. So I think its 
reasonable for it to use the services of T, or to ask Mr A to confirm his current financial 
situation, by for example, providing bank statements.This will mean they can calculate the most suitable option for him to pay the arrears. I think 
thats fair and reasonable. To do otherwise risks putting Mr A in a worse financial position  
and thats the outcome the guidance seeks to avoid.
Mr A has asked for a two month extension to his agreement. This is an option available to 
Oodle  but only if they find that this is in the best interests of Mr A. And to do that they need 
to consider his financial situation, as Ive set out above.
Correspondence and contacts
Mr A said he felt that Oodles contact constituted harassment. I disagree.
I see from their records that they texted and called him every day for two weeks at the 
beginning of January 2021. This was to advise him he was in arrears and to encourage him 
to contact them to agree a payment plan.
He said they called him eight or nine times a day. Ive seen that they called him regularly 
between 5 January 2021 and 19 January 2021  but on no more than three occasions on 
any one day, and just one call on most days. Ive also seen that the calls stopped soon after 
he emailed them on 18 January 2021.
So I dont consider these contacts to be excessive. And Im satisfied that they stopped when 
Mr A responded to them.
Ive also considered the Notice of Sums in Arrears they issued. This was not a default notice, 
but a formal notice informing him of the status of his account and advising of what might 
happen if no payments were made. I think it was fair and reasonable for Oodle to issue this 
notice to Mr A.
Mr A complains that he received a visit to his house from Oodle. I accept the explanation 
from Oodle that theyd arranged this before the payment was made on 1 March 2021. So 
whilst this was unfortunate I dont think it was deliberate act to cause distress to Mr A or his 
family.
However, all of this couldve been avoided if Oodle had dealt with Mr As request for 
assistance in December 2020 as they should have.
Putting things right
Oodle pursued Mr A for payment of arrears, when it shouldve treated his request for 
financial assistance in line with the guidance issued by the industry regulator. If they had 
done so Mr A wouldnt have been treated as if he was in arrears, and wouldnt have received 
the calls and text messages from Oodle as Ive described above.
This has caused Mr A some distress and inconvenience. He asked for a payment deferral, 
but was pursued for arrears when he shouldve been offered assistance. Hes described how 
upsetting he found this experience. I understand this, especially at a time when he was 
facing reduced income due to the Covid 19 pandemic. So I think an award of £150 is 
appropriate compensation to Mr A.
To put things right, Oodle should put Mr A back in the position he wouldve been in had they 
treated him fairly and in line with the FCA guidance.
To put things right Oodle must:Remove any adverse credit relating to the agreement from Mr As credit file
Pay Mr A £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience they caused 
him
Calculate an affordable plan as explained in the FCA guidance, including providing 
forbearance as set out in the FCAs tailored support guidance. (Mr A should note 
that this may require him to provide further information about his current financial 
situation).
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Mr A accepted it. Oodle also accepted it, 
but sought clarification about the arrears on Mr As account.
They said Mr A was currently in arrears of £1,068. They said in my provisional decision Id 
said that they should remove any adverse credit relating to his credit file. They asked if this 
meant they had to wipe the arrears off.
They said the FCA guidelines during COVID were that arrears were to be added to the end 
of an agreement or for monthly payments to be increased. They asked me to clarify what I 
expected them to do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything carefully again, I still think this complaint should be upheld. 
This is for the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and which Ive set out 
above.
Im happy to provide the clarification Oodle asked for, as this doesnt change what I expect 
them to do to put things right.
I said that Oodle must remove any adverse credit marking relating to the agreement from Mr 
As credit file. The guidance issued in November 2020 by the FCA says that firms should not 
report a worsening status in relation to payment deferrals granted under the guidance. So Id 
expect Oodle not to show missed payments for the period in which they should have 
provided a payment deferral.
I said in my provisional decision that the purpose of the FCA guidance was to provide 
immediate support to customers. And that it said that: 
where a customer can resume full repayments after a payment deferral, but is 
unable to pay the deferred amounts immediately and in full, the firm should allow 
them to repay the deferred amounts of the agreement or allow a longer period for 
repayment.
So its clear that the arrears are still payable. And Oodle and Mr A need to work together to 
agree an affordable payment plan in line with the guidance.Putting things right
To put things right Oodle must:
Remove any adverse credit markers relating to the payment deferral periods they 
granted, or should have granted to him, from Mr As credit file
Pay Mr A £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience they caused 
him
Calculate an affordable plan as explained in the FCA guidance, including providing 
forbearance as set out in the FCAs tailored support guidance. (Mr A should note that 
this may require him to provide further information about his current financial 
situation).
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr As complaint. Oodle Motor Finance Limited must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman