DRN-3880117
The complaint
A limited company, that Ill refer to as E, has complained about Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limiteds refusal of a claim for business interruption cover under its business insurance 
policy. 
Mr S, as one of the directors of E, has brought the complaint on its behalf. Mr S is also 
represented in this complaint but for ease I will refer to Mr S or E throughout. 
What happened
E is a recruitment consultant. In March 2021, E contacted Hiscox to make claims for 
business interruption, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. E said that as a result of the 
Government restrictions imposed in March 2020, November 2020 and January 2021 it had 
to close both its offices, which resulted in a loss of revenue. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a business interruption insurance test case 
in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings and how they should 
respond to the pandemic. One of the policies considered in this case had the same wording 
as Es policy with Hiscox. The Supreme Court handed down its judgment in January 2021. 
Hiscox considered Es claims in the light of that judgment but said the claims were not 
covered. Hiscox said the policy provided cover for losses arising as a result of E not being 
able to use its premises following closure by a public authority. However, Hiscox said that E 
was not one of the types of business that was required to close as part of the Governments 
March 2020 restrictions, or the later restrictions, and had been permitted to continue to 
operate. 
Hiscox said Es clients may not have been able to attend its premises but this was due to the 
restrictions on the movement of people and social distancing measures, rather than an 
inability to use its premises. Hiscox also said E could still conduct its business online or by 
phone and its staff were allowed to attend the premises if they could not work from home. 
Hiscox also said there was no cover under any other section of the policy.
Mr S is very unhappy that Es claims have not been met. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied Hiscox was entitled to refuse the claims. The Investigator said 
that whilst E may have suffered some disruption to the normal service it was able to provide, 
and a loss of income, it was not a type of business that had been required to close by the 
Government. So, it had not been caused an inability to use its premises, as required by the 
policy. 
E does not accept the Investigators assessment. E has made a number of submissions in 
the initial complaint and in response to the Investigator. Ive considered everything E has 
said but have summarised the main points below: 
It was required to close following The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions)  
(England) Regulations 2020 (the March Regulations) and was also later subject to  
local tier restrictions. 
It was unable to carry out face-to-face meetings with clients or candidates and could 
not pitch for new work. It specialises in recruiting for senior executive positions and 
its ability to assess candidates in person is an essential part of the service it 
provides. 
Where possible it set up staff to work from home, at significant additional cost but the 
inability to use the offices caused a significant loss of income. 
It was eligible for Government grants and local authority business rates relief on the 
basis it was required to close. This was because it was categorized as a retail and 
hospitality business, as it would normally have members of the public visit its offices.  
It was unclear for many what the restrictions were, so what chance did E have of 
knowing what it could or could not do?
The Investigator has not taken proper account of the local lockdowns and the 
consequences of breaching them. 
The restrictions stated that people could not socialise indoors; people should not 
leave their homes without a reasonable excuse; and people were unable to travel 
between tiers. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
E has complained about the rejection of three claims altogether, each relating to different
lockdown periods. As they are separate claims, I am only going to address the first claim for
the period from March 2020 in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident from Es submissions that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a significant financial 
impact. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered Es entire policy carefully. The business interruption section of the policy 
provides cover for a number of events, most of which clearly do not apply to the 
circumstances of this claim. I have considered the part of that section of cover that both 
parties agreed was relevant to Es claims below: 
Public Authority 
This provides cover for losses caused by: 
your inability to use the office due to restrictions imposed by a public authority 
following  
b. an occurrence of a notifiable human disease  The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Es was 
considered as part of the FCAs test case. Paragraph 129 of the Supreme Courts judgment 
said: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not cover 
all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following 
an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is 
caused by the policyholders inability to use the business premises due to such 
restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136:
 an inability of use has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in use. 
There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of Covid-19 
and Covid-19 is an infectious disease, the outbreak of which must be notified to the local 
authority. I dont consider that this occurrence needed to have been either at or in the vicinity 
of the premises. And I dont consider that the restrictions needed to have specifically 
targeted Es business alone. 
The court also made it clear that it may be possible for a business to claim for losses that 
arose out an inability to use its premises for a discrete part of its business activities. As such, 
this extension would provide cover to a business that had been caused an inability to use 
their insured premises, for all or for a discrete part of its business. 
So the question is whether or not E suffered an inability to use its premises. The March 
Regulations are relevant to considering this question. These regulations set out which 
businesses were required to close in March 2020. 
Es business doesnt fall clearly into any of the types of business specifically mentioned in 
the March Regulations, either as being a business that was required to close or that was 
permitted to stay open. Ive therefore considered all the evidence to determine whether it is 
reasonable to conclude that E was required to close. 
Non-essential shops and some other service industries (such as hair salons and leisure 
centres) were listed specifically as being required to close, as were theatres, cinemas, 
museums. These categories of business would all seem to be places that members of the 
public could gather or attend for recreational, non-essential retail purposes and sometimes 
for services that could not be undertaken at a distance (such as hair dressing services).
I do not think that Es business, as it has been described, would fall into the same category.
E did have office premises, which could accommodate visitors, but I dont think this would 
amount to a shop or showroom in the same way as the businesses that were required to 
close. 
The March Regulations also allowed people to leave home to attend work, if they were 
unable to work from home. I consider that Es employees would be seen to be travelling for 
the purposes of work when attending the offices. 
E might have had to adjust how its offices were used, to comply with social distancing 
regulations and guidance, but the fact remains it was able to use the premises (even if not 
as it would usually). Having considered the types of businesses required to close and those that were permitted 
to stay open, I think it is reasonable to conclude that E was not unable to use its offices as a 
result of the March Regulations. 
E has also said that the fact it received a Government grant and business rates relief proves 
that it was required to close, as otherwise it would not have been eligible. 
E has provided some emails from August 2020, between it and its local authority regarding 
the business rates relief. The local authority said that eligibility was dependent on proof that 
Es premises were used as an employment agency open to the public and asked for photos 
of the premises and interview rooms as an example to demonstrate this. E provided photos 
of the company name plaque outside and of an office room with a table and two chairs and 
also a conference style room with a larger table and several chairs. The local authority 
accepted this and confirmed the rates relief was granted.  
I am not persuaded that this is sufficient to prove that E was required to close. This evidence 
confirms that E had facilities to receive visitors but even if it could not receive visitors during 
the relevant period, Es own employees could use the offices to conduct its business, if they 
could not work from home. And many businesses were able to conduct business online. 
Therefore I dont think the fact E received rates relief means that it would fall within the 
category of business that was required to close under the March Regulations and that it was 
unable to use its premises.  
E has also said it received a Government grant. Again, I do not think this establishes that it 
was required to close, as Ive not seen any evidence that eligibility for this grant was only 
those businesses that were unable to use their premises. 
The circumstances at the time would have meant that the demand for Es services might 
have fallen, and E has said a number of ongoing projects were cancelled. So, whilst I do not 
doubt E suffered a disruption to the normal operation of its business, the policy requires that 
there be an inability to use its premises. And I do not consider E suffered such an inability to 
use its premises. As such, I do not consider Hiscox acted inappropriately in declining Es 
claim under this section. 
I appreciate this is a matter Mr S feels very strongly about, and Im mindful of the 
consequences my decision may have on E. But I havent found Hiscox acted unfairly in 
declining its claim. Im therefore not directing Hiscox to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthyOmbudsman