DRN-2867583
The complaint
Ms L complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) applied an incorrect interest 
rate to a Young Savers account she had.
What happened
Ms L has held a junior account with Halifax since 2009, of which she is the trustee. This 
account has changed over the years, in August 2013 it renewed as a Young Savers account. 
In 2014, Ms L believed that the interest rate on the account would be 6%. Halifax wrote to 
Ms L on 13 October 2014 to say this wasnt the case. It told her that the interest rate would 
be 3% on the entire balance. Based on this information, Ms L deposited £85,000 into the 
account over the following month.
In 2018, Ms L complained to Halifax as she found she wasnt getting the 3% interest rate. 
Halifax responded to say the account only paid 3% interest up to a balance of £20,000 and 
0.5% interest on anything above that amount. It said that this was detailed in the terms when 
the account renewed in 2013. It also said it had sent regular statements. It paid Ms L £100 
for the misleading information but felt it had made it clear what the interest rate was on the 
account.
I sent out my provisional decision on 11 May 2021. This explained that I intended to uphold 
the complaint. The relevant extract from that decision is copied below and forms part of this 
decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to a different conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain why.
Its clear that Halifax gave Ms L incorrect information about the interest rate on the savings
account she had. And I agree that £100 compensation for being given that incorrect
information is fair for the trouble and upset it caused Ms L. But I cant see that we considered
what financial loss this error caused Ms L.
The letter in which Halifax gave Ms L incorrect information was dated 13 October 2014. Its
very clear to me that Ms L relied on this information and deposited £85,000 into the account
shes trustee of. I say this because these five deposits were made within a month from when
this information was given to Ms L. Ive taken on board Halifaxs point that the initial terms of
the Young Saver wouldve given the correct interest rates applicable. But given the account
changed so many times over five years, and a letter was sent to Ms L explaining the interest
rate was 3% on a balance up to £9 million I think its understandable and reasonable for
Ms L to have believed this was the case.
We asked Ms L where the money she deposited was kept beforehand and what she
wouldve done with the money had she been aware that interest would be 0.5% on the
balance over £20,000. Shes explained that it was kept in savings accounts paying 1.8% -
1.9% on the balance. She also explained had she been aware that it wouldnt pay 3% she
wouldve paid the amount off her mortgage as her interest rate was higher than she could
get in other deposit accounts. So, Ive thought about what Ms L was likely to have done, and
how this has financially impacted her.
Halifax has sent evidence to show that it did send Ms L statements. The one I have on file
shows that on 20 May 2016, a statement was sent to Ms L which detailed the interest rates
on the account clearly. Its from this point I think she shouldve known she wasnt getting the
interest rate she believed on the account. Ms L says she didnt receive these statements but
given it was sent to her address, and there was other information sent to her online, I think
its likely she wouldve received something to suggest the interest rate wasnt the one she
believed it to be. I cant see Ms L did anything about it at this time, and its unclear what
shes done since. Because of this, I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude it was
likely Ms L wouldve repaid some of her mortgage as theres not enough to show this was
the case. Im also mindful she chose to place this money from her own account into an
account she is the trustee for.
However, it is clear to me Ms L deposited £85,000 into the Halifax account based on
incorrect information, and the money wouldve earned more interest had she left it where it
was. So, I think she, as the legal owner of the Young Saver account, has lost out on interest
from the date she deposited the money to the 20 May 2016  when she was made aware of
the actual interest rate of the account. Its therefore my intention to ask Halifax to pay the
difference in interest on the money between those dates  upon receipt of evidence from
Ms L to show the interest rate the money was receiving prior to it being deposited into the
Young Saver account.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold this complaint. I intend to direct Bank of
Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) to do the following:
- Upon receipt of evidence from Ms L, calculate the difference in interest her deposits
wouldve received had they not been deposited into the Young Saver account.
Interest should be calculated from the date the deposit was made to 20 May 2016
when Ms L was told of the correct interest rate on the account.
- Pay Ms L 8% interest* on the above amount from the date the interest wouldve been
paid to the date of settlement.
*If Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) considers that its required by HM Revenue &
Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Ms L how much its taken off.
It should also give Ms L a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Halifax accepted my provisional decision. Ms L responded with some interest rates from a 
previous account she held but didnt add any new comments to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Halifax has accepted the provisional decision, and Ms L hasnt added any additional 
comments, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision (an extract 
of which is above and forms part of this decision). I uphold this complaint.Ms L has provided interest rates from an account she says her money was held in, we will 
pass this on to Halifax.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) must do the following:
- Upon receipt of evidence from Ms L, calculate the difference in interest her deposits
wouldve received had they not been deposited into the Young Saver account.
Interest should be calculated from the date the deposit was made to 20 May 2016
when Ms L was told of the correct interest rate on the account.
- Pay Ms L 8% interest* on the above amount from the date the interest wouldve been
paid to the date of settlement.
*If Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) considers that its required by HM Revenue &
Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Ms L how much its taken off.
It should also give Ms L a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) 
must follow the instructions set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman