DRN-3881981
The complaint
Mrs Js complained that, following the death of her husband and joint policyholder (Mr J), 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined the claim she made on their 
life insurance policy.  And they cancelled the policy and refunded the premiums because 
they said Mr J had made a misrepresentation on his application.
What happened
In summer 2020, Mr and Mrs J bought a life insurance policy from L&G.  As part of the 
application they each completed a health and lifestyle questionnaire.  
Mr J sadly passed away just over a year later.  Mrs J made a claim on the policy.
As part of their assessment, L&G obtained Mr Js medical records.  Having considered 
these, they declined the claim.  
L&G noted the records said Mr J suffered from diabetes.  But, in his application, Mr J had 
answered no to the question:
Have you ever had diabetes or a heart condition?
They also noted that, although Mr J had told them about a history of asthma, hed been 
diagnosed with asthma-chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, which hed not mentioned.  
And they said the weight Mr J had given them was 14kg less than the last weight his GP had 
recorded.  
L&G concluded that Mr J had misrepresented his health by giving these answers.  As well as 
declining the claim, they cancelled the policy and refunded the premiums Mr and Mrs J had 
paid.
Mrs J complained to L&G about what theyd done.  L&G reviewed their handling of the claim 
and wrote to Mrs J confirming their decision to decline it.  But they did acknowledge theyd 
delayed in updating her and hadnt called her when they said they would.  L&G paid Mrs J 
£250 for these shortcomings.
Mrs J wasnt satisfied with L&Gs response and brought her complaint to our service.   Our 
investigator reviewed the available evidence and concluded L&G didnt need to do any more 
to resolve it.  He focused his investigation on the reply Mr J had given to the question about 
diabetes, as it had been that response which led to L&G cancelling the policy.  And he was 
satisfied that L&G had come to that decision, having applied the relevant law (the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  referred to as CIDRA).
Mrs J didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint.  I know shell find that upsetting and 
Im sorry about that.  I hope it will help if I explain the reasons for my decision.
Mrs J has taken the trouble to send a considerable amount of information to us about how 
the diabetes diagnosis was communicated to Mr J and how he reacted to that.  I understand 
why shes done that.  But, as our investigator explained, how businesses should deal with 
what they think are misrepresentations is set out in CIDRA.  My role is to decide whether 
theyve applied CIDRA fairly in this case.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
L&G have said Mr J made a misrepresentation because he should have answered yes to 
the question Ive quoted above.  I think the question is clear and unambiguous.  And I can 
see that L&G came to the conclusion there had been a misrepresentation on the basis of 
entries in Mr Js medical records.
Ive studied those records.  They show that, in early 2019, Mr J had a telephone consultation 
with the practice nurse.  He was told he had Type 2 diabetes and that he should start taking 
medication and he should have a follow up appointment the next week to discuss increasing 
the dosage.  A prescription was issued.
The notes then say that Mr J spoke to the nurse the following week and that he was feeling 
better and had not started the medication because he didnt feel he needed it.  The notes of 
this conversation say:
Explained re recent HbA1c and definite diagnosis T2DM [Type 2 diabetes mellitus] and re 
mode of action of metformin.
About two months after this, the practice sent Mr J an annual diabetic review appointment.
Mrs J has provided a substantial amount of information showing Mr J didnt believe he had 
diabetes and/or struggled to accept the diagnosis.  Ive no doubt that was the case.  But his 
medical records are clear hed been diagnosed with diabetes and that he was made aware 
of this by the practice.  In the circumstances, I think its reasonable for L& G to conclude Mr J 
hadnt answered the question accurately, so made a misrepresentation.
L&G have provided their underwriting guidelines to us.  These show that, if Mr J had 
answered the question as yes, it would have generated a follow up asking the result of his 
latest HbA1c test.  And that the most recent result recorded on his GP records would have 
resulted in them declining cover.  So Im satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one 
within the meaning of CIDRA.
Finally Ive considered the remedy L&G applied.  Ive reviewed Mrs Js evidence again in 
relation to this point.  Shes provided extensive information about how some people  of 
which Mr J was one  struggle to accept and deal with diagnoses of chronic conditions.I appreciate Mrs Js efforts in this respect.  But, however unwelcome it was to him, Im 
satisfied Mr J knew hed been diagnosed with diabetes.  So I cant say its unfair for L&G to 
have decided the misrepresentation deliberate or reckless, and to have cancelled the policy.  
Theyre entitled to cancel whether the misrepresentation is categorised this way, or as a 
careless misrepresentation.  But, if the misrepresentation is careless, L&G should refund the 
premiums paid.  If its deliberate or reckless, CIDRA allows them to keep them.
Im pleased to see that, even though L&G said Mr Js misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless, theyve refunded the premiums to Mrs J.  But I dont think they need to do any 
more to resolve her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Js complaint about Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman