DRN-4185399
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the advice Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited (Lighthouse) gave 
to her to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, 
the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. She says the advice was 
unsuitable for her and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Since the date of the advice another firm has acquired Lighthouses business and responded 
to the complaint. But as it was Lighthouse that gave the advice, for ease of reading, I will 
only refer to it within this decision.
What happened
In March 2016, Mrs Gs employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for 
insolvent DB pension schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for 
their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original 
schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme. Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer 
their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mrs Gs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In the meantime, In July 2017, the BSPS provided Mrs G with a summary of the transfer 
value of her scheme benefits. At that time her benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of £423,693. 
Mrs G approached Lighthouse for advice about her pension. It carried out a fact-find with her 
and an assessment of her attitude to risk. It noted Mrs G was 48 years old, married to Mr G 
who was four years older. They were both working. They had no dependent children. They 
owned their own home subject to a mortgage of £58,000. They were paying that off at £500 
a month and had eleven years remaining on its term. They had two loans for a total of 
£33,000, which would be repaid in five years. Mrs G had joined her employers recently set 
up defined contribution (DC) scheme. Together she and her employer were contributing the 
equivalent of around 12% of her salary towards that each year. It said she had a low to 
medium risk tolerance.
In September 2017 the BSPS recalculated Mrs Gs CETV to take account of the RAA. The 
amended figure was £437,509.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
The same month, October 2017, Lighthouse carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) 
report which set out the growth rates required from an alternative personal arrangement (the 
critical yields) to match the DB scheme benefits. It then gave Mrs G its suitability report 
setting out its analysis and recommendations. In brief it recommended that she should 
transfer her DB scheme benefits to a named personal pension and invest in funds suitable to 
her attitude to risk. It said that doing so would allow her to retire at age 55; give her flexible 
access to her pension fund and allow her to leave a lump sum for her husband in the event 
of her death.
Mrs G accepted Lighthouses recommendation and transferred her funds to the named 
personal pension.
In 2021 Lighthouse wrote to Mrs G offering a review of its advice. A third party firm 
conducted that review and said it found Lighthouses advice suitable. Mrs G then complained 
to Lighthouse via the Financial Ombudsman Service. Lighthouse didn't uphold her 
complaint.
Mrs G asked us to consider her complaint. One of our Investigators looked into it. He didn't 
think Lighthouses advice was suitable for Mrs G. So he said it should establish if shed 
suffered a financial loss as a result of its advice. The Investigator said Mrs G had confirmed 
she intended to retire in 2023 (at age 55) and said that in those circumstances she would 
have benefitted from the lower actuarial reductions for early retirement from the PPF 
compared with the BSPS2. So he said that any loss calculation should be on the basis that 
Mrs G retired at 55 and took benefits from the PPF.
Lighthouse said it didnt agree with our Investigators complaint assessment but said it 
wouldn't be able to reply in the timescale he set out. He extended the deadline for a reply. 
Lighthouse didnt provide a further substantive response before that deadline expired, and 
another Investigator notified Lighthouse that they would refer the complaint for an 
Ombudsmans review. 
In June 2023 Lighthouse twice said it was in the process of finalising its full response. It 
said that if an Ombudsman did review the matter then following our usual practice, it asked 
for the Ombudsman to share a provisional or draft decision before issuing their final 
decision. To date Lighthouse hasnt sent us any further correspondence on the matter. So, 
as things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Lighthouse's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Lighthouse 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate it was in Mrs Gs best 
interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our Investigator gave.
Why I'm not issuing a provisional decision
Lighthouse asked that prior to issuing a final decision I issue a provisional decision. Doing so 
would allow both sides to comment on that provisional decision before I came to my final 
determination.
Lighthouse said issuing a provisional decision is our usual process. Its wrong in that 
respect. That is, it is not our "usual process to issue a provisional decision before making a 
final determination. Instead our common practice is, in the first instance, to issue a final 
decision unless the Ombudsman concerned believes a provisional decision is required. 
I would usually only issue a provisional decision where my findings are materially different to 
the Investigators. For example if my conclusions are not the same as the Investigators or 
my reasons for arriving at those conclusions are notably different. Similarly if I think our 
Investigator made a mistake when recommending redress and my award would be 
significantly different, then I may issue a provisional decision and invite the parties to 
comment on that. 
In other situations, where I believe its fair and reasonable to do so, I may choose to issue a 
provisional decision even where my final determination is fundamentally the same as the 
Investigators. But, that choice is at my discretion, Im not under any obligation to do so.
In this case, Ive considered everything submitted by both parties, including Lighthouses file 
with the relevant documents at the time of the advice. Having done so Im upholding the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those given by the investigator. In those 
circumstances I don't find that a provisional decision is required or warranted.
In arriving at that stance I'm aware that Lighthouse has yet to provide us with its finalised 
response to our Investigators complaint assessment. However, he issued his assessment In 
April 2023. He then extended the deadline for Lighthouse to reply. It didnt do so before that deadline passed. Lighthouse has since, twice, told us it was in the process of providing its 
finalised response. But a further five months has gone by and it still hasn't done so. I think 
its had more than enough time to reply, make any further submissions, arguments or 
observations it wished to. But it hasn't done so. In those circumstances I think its fair and 
reasonable to issue my final decision without delaying matters further.
Reasons for my decision 
Lighthouse obtained a TVAS report which showed the relevant critical yields to match the 
benefits from the DB scheme at ages 55 and 65. At Mrs Gs preferred retirement age of 55 
the critical yields were 13.13% if she took a full pension or 8.88% if she took a tax free cash 
(TFC) lump sum and a reduced pension. 
Lighthouses suitability report said the critical yields were high and matching them would be 
"difficult. It added that if Mrs Gs sole objective was to match or better the scheme benefits, 
its advice would be to remain in the DB scheme until normal retirement age. In other words 
Lighthouse recognised that transferring would most likely mean Mrs G would struggle to 
match the benefits she could receive from the DB scheme by transferring. I agree with 
Lighthouse's analysis here. But I dont think it did enough to make it clear to Mrs G that she 
was, potentially, making herself poorer in retirement by transferring.
Lighthouses suitability report said that if Mrs G retired at age 55 she could use a proportion 
of her TFC to pay off any remaining debts  mortgage, loans etc. That would reduce her 
outgoings and it calculated that she would then require a net income of £824 a month. Its 
report isn't clear on this point, but it would appear it calculated that required monthly sum on 
the basis that Mr G would continue working until age 67  as he planned to do. It also said 
Mrs G would need to increase her drawdown amount, once her husband retired at age 67  
when she was 63  until she turned 67. At that time, her own state pension became payable 
and she could reduce her drawdown figure.
The suitability report said Lighthouse had run a retirement modeller  a cash flow model  
showing Mrs G drawing down income as described above. It said that model showed that 
Mrs Gs funds would last well beyond her life expectancy and until she was 120. But I don't 
find Lighthouses model reliable.
There are two cash flow models on file that I've seen. They are dated in August and 
September 2017 respectively. The first doesn't allow for Mrs G taking any TFC and shows 
her funds would run out at age 96, not 120. So I don't think that was the model it was 
referring to in its suitability report. The September model does allow for Mrs G taking TFC, 
but it doesn't show an increase in drawdown for the four years between her husband retiring 
and herself turning 67. 
Further, the suitability report says the model is based on an example interest rate of 5% a 
year. I take that to mean a growth rate of 5% a year. And while achieving that rate might not 
have been impossible, given the volatility of the investment markets consistent growth at that 
level, particularly for someone with a low to medium attitude to risk, could be difficult to 
achieve.
To put this into context, prior to October 2017 the Financial Ombudsman Service published 
future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. Ill explain that a discount rate is a measure of what an investment is likely 
to grow at in the future. They provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have 
been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. In Mrs Gs case the discount 
rate for retirement at age 55 was 3.3%. Somewhat less than the cashflow model's rate of 
5%. So the prospect of a 5% year-on-year return seems ambitious.Also, if there was a sustained period of poor performance or the investments suffered losses 
then there was a very real chance that Mrs Gs fund would grow at a much slower rate. If 
that happened Mrs G could deplete her pension fund earlier than Lighthouses model shows. 
In addition, Lighthouses model isn't stress tested to allow for the possibility of market 
crashes or poor performance. So I don't think it paints a complete picture of the likely future 
scenarios Mrs G could be facing in retirement.
Further, as I've said above, Lighthouse itself recognised Mrs G would be unlikely to match or 
exceed the benefits from her DB scheme by transferring. So, for that reason alone, I dont 
think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in her best interests. Instead I think Lighthouse 
should have advised Mrs G to remain in the DB scheme.
Of course matching the DB scheme income isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits, as Lighthouse has argued in this case. Ive considered this 
below.
Lighthouse said transferring allowed Mrs G the flexibility to take early retirement at age 55, 
while paying off any remaining debts. But I don't think Mrs G needed to transfer out of her 
DB scheme, and put her funds at risk, in order to retire early.
Lighthouse didnt quantify what Mr and Mrs Gs debt position was likely to be at age 55. But 
when it completed the fact-find their two loans were due to be repaid in five years  before 
Mrs G retired. And her mortgage had eleven years remaining. So given they would have 
been repaying that for a further six full years or more before her retirement then the 
mortgage could have been reduced to somewhere around £26,500.
Lighthouse said Mrs G required an income of £824 a month or £9,888 a year. Its TVAS 
showed that the BSPS would pay her TFC of £65,983 and a reduced yearly pension of 
£9,897 at age 55. So, she could have taken benefits from the DB scheme and still retired 
early. However, there was an even more favourable position for her, which was to consider 
allowing her pension to move to the PPF and taking sums from that at age 55.
The manner in which the PPF and the DB scheme work out actuarial reductions for early 
retirement is different. The PPF is on the whole more generous the earlier a pension is 
taken. And the earliest Mrs G could take her PPF benefits is age 55. Mrs Gs entitlement 
from the PPF at age 55 was TFC of £81,849 and a yearly pension of £12,306. Those sums 
are over 24% higher than the BSPS benefits. So she could have been considerably better off 
in the early years of retirement by opting to allow her pension to move to the PPF. Those 
sums were guaranteed and the yearly pension escalated. It wasnt dependent on investment 
performance. 
It follows that if Mrs G had allowed her pension to move to the PPF she could have 
comfortably paid off any anticipated remaining debts and still had a considerable lump sum 
left over. She could, if she chose, have used the remaining TFC to support her income for 
the four years between Mr G retiring and her own state pension becoming payable. So I 
don't think Mrs G needed to transfer to a personal pension in order to be able to retire at age 
55. 
I note that Lighthouses suitability report was silent on Mrs Gs benefit entitlements from the 
PPF. It did refer to the critical yields at age 65 to match the PPF benefits  without actually 
stating what those were. But it didnt give Mrs G any figures at all for what she could be 
entitled to from the PPF at age 55. And given this was her intended retirement age  and 
there was a distinct possibility of the BSPS moving to the PPF  I don't think it gave her enough information with which to make an informed decision about what might be best for 
her.
That said, its true to say that Mrs G couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to 
her funds from the PPF as she could from a personal pension. If shed wanted to take a TFC 
lump sum, then she would have had to take that at the same time as drawing a regular 
income from the PPF. Whereas the personal pension would allow her to draw down funds as 
she saw fit.
But while I can see why accessing funds flexibly might have been an attractive prospect for 
her, there was no requirement for her to give up the safeguarded benefits from the PPF in 
order to have some flexible access to retirement funds.
Mrs G could have set aside any surplus TFC sums to access flexibly if she needed. Further 
she and her employer had begun contributing to a recently set up DC pension scheme. And, 
by the time she was 55 Mrs G could anticipate that her DC pension pot would be in the 
region of £30,000. The nature of a DC pension means this already provided Mrs G with 
flexibility  she wasnt committed to take its benefits in a set way. So she could have taken 
sums as and when required and adjusted the income she took from it according to her 
needs. This combined with her income from the PPF would have likely given her flexible 
access to pension funds if that was what she required. So she didnt need to transfer from 
the DB scheme to have some flexible access to cash. It follows that I don't think it was in her 
best interests to recommend this course of action and potentially to put her DB benefits at 
risk by doing so. 
I'm aware the PPF would have provided Mrs G an income that was higher than her needs. 
So she would have had to pay tax on her regular income above her marginal tax rate which 
was £11,500 in 2017. However, that requirement to pay tax would simply indicate that she 
would be better off. And I think its rare for people to complain that they have too much 
income. And having money coming in above her target level would simply mean Mrs G 
would have extra disposable income to enhance her lifestyle with, or even to put towards a 
legacy in the event of her death if thats what she wished to do. 
That brings me to Lighthouses recommendation that transferring allowed Mrs G to leave any 
residual pension to Mr G on her death. Ill explain that the PPF would pay 50% of Mrs Gs 
pension entitlement to Mr G after she died. In contrast, a personal pension would allow Mr G 
to access whatever remained within her pension pot in whatever manner he chose. But I 
dont think the possibility of more attractive death benefits was a sufficient reason to 
recommend a transfer. 
Lighthouses priority was to advise Mrs G about what was best for her retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum after 
death. But in transferring out of her DB scheme Mrs G was essentially giving up a 
guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum 
for Mr G that he may not receive for many years to come, or indeed at all if he dies before 
her. 
I don't doubt that the CETV figure would have appeared an attractive sum to be able to leave 
as a legacy. But, in reality, the amount remaining on death following a transfer was always 
likely to be different. As well as being dependent on investment performance the fund would 
be depleted by Mrs Gs withdrawals from it in her lifetime. So, how much would remain in it 
on her death depended on a number of factors. And there may not have been much left in 
her personal pension if she lived a long life, the investments performed poorly, or if she took 
large sums from it early in her retirement. It follows that I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
potential decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs G. And ultimately Lighthouse should not 
have encouraged her to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over her security in retirement. 
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mrs Gs best interest to give up 
her DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mrs G wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the 
DB scheme and allow it to move to the PPF. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the 
advice Lighthouse gave to Mrs G was unsuitable for her.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs G, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs G would 
most likely have remained in the DB scheme and moved with it to the PPF if Lighthouse had 
given suitable advice. 
Lighthouse must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Lighthouse should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mrs G and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence 
of what Lighthouse based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mrs G has concrete plans to retire at age 55. So, compensation should be based 
on her taking benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs G 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Lighthouse should:
calculate and offer Mrs G redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs G before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
her DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs G receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs G accepts Lighthouses offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs G for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Gs end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mrs G as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits 
that would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, 
Lighthouse may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of 
tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the 
loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mrs Gs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited to pay Mrs G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited pays Mrs G the balance.
If Mrs G accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs G can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs G may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman