DRN-2955879
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) has not refunded a transaction he 
says he was misled into making.  He argues that Tesco should have done more to protect 
him from fraud.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
On 31 May 2020, Mr E sent £5,426.93 to his wife in another country via a money remittance 
service (using his Tesco credit card).  Mr E says his wife told him that she required the funds 
to purchase land in the country she was in.  However, Mr E says he later discovered that this 
was untrue, and that he had become a victim of fraud.  Consequently, Mr E raised a fraud 
claim with Tesco, which it did not uphold.  He then made a complaint about this  including 
how his fraud claim had been handled.
Tesco responded to Mr E stating that it was not going to uphold his fraud claim, but as a 
gesture of goodwill, it had credited £25.00 to his account.
Unhappy with Tescos position, Mr E referred his complaint to our service. In short, he said 
Tesco had a duty of care to protect him financially.  He added that it took Tesco a long time 
to investigate his fraud claim, which he argues it did not do properly; nor did it provide him 
with satisfactory reasons as to why his claim had not been upheld.  Tescos position, 
broadly, is that it would not be fair to hold it liable for the circumstances of Mr Es complaint, 
as it is a family dispute, rather than fraud.  It accepts it did not provide Mr E with enough 
information about why it was declining his claim in the first instance  something which it 
believes the £25.00 fairly addresses.
One of our investigators considered Mr Es complaint and did not uphold it.  She considered 
Tesco had made no error in processing the transaction concerned.  She said Tesco acted as 
she would have expected it to by sending Mr E a text message about the transaction  which 
he responded to confirming it was genuine.  She added that Mr E confirmed to her that had 
Tesco called him about the transaction at the time, he would have authorised it.  Lastly, our 
investigator did not think the time it took Tesco to investigate Mr Es claim to be 
unreasonable.  For these reasons, she was not minded to increase the £25.00 Tesco had 
paid.
Mr E did not accept our investigators findings.  In short, he said whilst he accepted he 
consented to the transaction  it was only because he thought his wife had made a genuine 
request at the time.  In Mr Es response, he also asked why he was not told at the outset that 
the transaction would not be considered fraud due to it being between husband and wife.  
He added that he did not want the £25.00 Tesco credited to his account.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Mr E accepts that he consented to the transaction of £5,426.93, which he says he was 
misled into making.  However, he argues Tesco had a duty of care to protect him against 
fraud.
Banks have a duty to protect their customers against the risk of financial loss due to fraud 
and undertake due diligence on large transactions.  
Based on the evidence before me, I can see that Tesco sent Mr E a text message about the 
transaction in question on 31 May 2020.  Mr E responded to this confirming that the 
transaction was genuine.  With this in mind, I am satisfied Tesco undertook appropriate due 
diligence before processing the transaction.  Even if I thought Tesco should have done more 
at the time  which I am not persuaded it should have  I note that Mr E told our investigator 
he would have authorised the payment even if Tesco had called him about it.
I do acknowledge Mr E says he believed his wife was making a genuine request at the time.  
And I have had sight of the information he has provided our investigator.  However, taking all 
the above factors together, I am satisfied that Tesco was not given any reason to doubt the 
legitimacy of the payment Mr E made, and so was not wrong in processing it.  I am also 
satisfied that Tesco undertook a proper investigation into Mr Es fraud claim; and had to do 
so before informing him about its position.
Mr E says Tesco took a long time to investigate his claim and did not provide him with 
satisfactory reasons as to why it was not upheld.
By letter dated 8 September 2020, Tesco wrote to Mr E stating it was not upholding his 
claim.  Having considered this letter, I am of the view that Tesco could have provided more 
detail about why it decided not to uphold the fraud claim.  However, having listened to a call 
recording between Mr E and Tesco which took place on 12 September 2020  I am 
persuaded that Tesco provided detailed reasons for why it was not upholding the claim.  
Therefore, I am of the view that the £25.00 fairly reflects the amount of time Mr E had to wait 
before receiving a proper response, and any distress and inconvenience caused.
As I understand it, Tesco has already credited the £25.00 to Mr Es account, so I do not 
require it to do anything further.  Mr E has said he does not want this money, which is a 
matter for him to decide what he wants to do with it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman