DRN-3107238
The complaint
Mrs F complains about Marks and Spencer Financial Service Plcs (M&S) decision to treat 
her account as being in persistent debt and the service it provided around this.
What happened
In December 2020, Mrs F found that her credit card account had been suspended for use. 
She contacted M&S, which told her that this is because her credit card had been found to be 
in persistent debt. Mrs F had a number of calls with M&S about this as she was unhappy 
with the situation and felt it was unfair. She said shed never received any letters and had 
made a large payment in November 2020 and wasnt aware that the account was now 
blocked.
M&S eventually treated this as a complaint and responded to Mrs F, explaining that it sent 
her multiple letters about her card being in persistent debt. These letters were sent in line 
with regulatory obligations and gave all the necessary options that were open to Mrs F in 
terms of dealing with the situation. M&S acknowledged that she had paid in a large amount 
recently, but said that by the point she did that she would have needed to have cleared the 
balance in full, which this payment didnt do. It offered Mrs F some support but she declined 
this.
Mrs F contacted M&S again after its letter responding to her complaint saying that she 
wanted to select one of the options, but not with the relevant interest rate. She said she 
moved in November 2020 and hadnt received any letters before this. M&S explained that 
she couldnt pursue the option she wanted to on the terms that she suggested and restated 
the position that it felt it had acted correctly.
Mrs F referred her complaint to this service where one of our investigators looked into the 
matter. They said that M&S had acted correctly by classing Mrs Fs credit card as being in 
persistent debt, as required by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They noted that 
M&S had sent Mrs F a number of letters about this  in August 2018, May 2019, February 
2020 and October 2020. 
Our investigator was satisfied that these letters were sent and felt that, while Mrs F had been 
unclear about which letters she may have received, at the very least Mrs F had received the 
February 2020 letter. Our investigator said this letter seemed to have prompted a call in 
March 2020 where Mrs F contacted M&S because of a letter she received about her account 
being in persistent debt. Mrs F was unhappy with this letter because she felt that all of a 
sudden she was being asked to make a large payment just to keep her account open. She 
said that she always makes more than her minimum payment each month and has never 
made a late payment.
Our investigator also explained why they didnt think that M&S had done anything wrong in 
terms of how it made Mrs F aware of her options under persistent debt. They didnt feel that 
M&S needed to do any more in terms of how it presented Mrs Fs statements and she 
explained why she didnt feel that M&S was bullying Mrs F into making a large payment. 
Instead they were satisfied that M&S was just following its obligations in what it did. 
Mrs F disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In explaining my decision here, Ive had regard for all Mrs F has said and sent us, alongside 
everything that M&S has provided us too  but in reaching my decision here Ill be focusing 
on what I think the key areas of the complaint are in deciding whats fair and reasonable. 
Thats in line with our role as a quick and informal service.
The starting point here is that Im satisfied M&S was entitled to treat Mrs Fs credit card as 
being in persistent debt. Persistent debt is defined by the FCA as when a person has paid 
more in interest, fees and charges than they have towards paying off the balance of a credit 
card, store card or catalogue account for more than 18 months. Mrs F has explained that 
she always made at least the minimum payment to her account on time and sometimes 
made higher payments too.
But despite that, the effect of how Mrs F was maintaining the account was that she was 
classed as being in persistent debt by M&S  where she had been paying more towards 
interest and charges, as opposed to the balance of the card. Ive seen in various letters that 
M&S explained this to Mrs F. Where a business becomes aware that a customer is in 
persistent debt, it has a regulatory obligation to send certain letters to a customer, at certain 
key points in time, about the situation with their account and the options that are open to 
them. Thats what M&S has shown that its done here.
M&S has shown that it sent each of these letters to the correct address it held for Mrs F at 
the time of sending. So if Mrs F didnt receive them, thats not something itd be fair for me to 
say that M&S can be held liable for. I realise that in November 2020, Mrs F updated her 
address with M&S. But she hadnt told it about any changes to her address any earlier than 
this. 
So, M&S has fulfilled its obligations under the persistent debt rules and, strictly speaking, 
where its done so  I cant say that its acted wrongly. But, having considered all that Mrs F 
says, I note she says that she didnt receive any letters about this and only discovered the 
situation with her account in December 2020 when she couldnt make a payment.
But Mrs F has said different things to M&S and this service about which letters she received 
and which she didnt. What stood out to me was a call Mrs F had with M&S in March 2020, 
which persuades me that she did receive M&Ss letter about persistent debt of February 
2020. I say this because its clear that this letter is what prompted the call, as its the focus of 
the discussion between Mrs F and M&S during the call.
So, at the very least, Im satisfied that, as of February 2020, Mrs F had been made aware of 
the situation with her account and the options that were open to her. That letter explained 
those options and also that if Mrs F didnt contact M&S, then itd suspend use of the credit 
card in line with FCA rules. Mrs F says that she felt like M&S were expecting her to suddenly 
make a large payment in order to use her account, but the letters it sent (including the 
February 2020 letter) gave a number of options which were in line with the FCA rules.
Mrs F told M&S that she didnt want to pursue the options that it gave her, but the letter 
explained that these were the available options. So even though Mrs F contacted M&S as a 
result of this letter, nothing was agreed as a way forward. That means its difficult for me to say that M&S acted unfairly when it eventually took action to suspend the card, as it had 
warned Mrs F it might do this in the letter of February 2020.
All of this means that Im satisfied that M&S was entitled to take the actions it eventually did 
and that it acted fairly in doing so  although I realise Mrs F will see it differently. M&S was 
under a regulatory obligation to take certain actions based on how Mrs F was conducting her 
account. It took those steps correctly and Im persuaded that Mrs F received at least one of 
these letters which told her what she needed to do and what the consequences would be.
Mrs F has raised a number of other points as to why she thinks M&S has acted wrongly. I 
havent seen anything in what shes said that means M&S acted unfairly or should have 
done anything differently though. I understand Mrs Fs point about why she believes that 
statements should include information around persistent debt, but M&S doesnt need to 
include that information. In any event, the relevant information here was sent separately by 
letter anyway, as it should have been.
Equally, while Mrs F made a large payment in November 2020  I cant see that this was 
because of any discussions with M&S, or any agreement that this would affect the situation 
with her account. By this point, she would have needed to have paid the full outstanding 
balance of the card. But this payment wasnt sufficient to do this in a way that meant shed 
gain access to using the card again. So as Ive mentioned previously, Im satisfied that M&S 
was entitled to have suspended her account in line with the persistent debt rules by this 
point.
So while I realise this will be disappointing for Mrs F  Im satisfied that M&S has acted 
correctly here and treated her fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman