DRN-2178891
The complaint
Mr M complains about the transfer of the defined-benefits he held in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by 
Carnwyllon Wealth Management Ltd (CWM, the respondent business in this complaint) and 
another financial business (which Ill call Firm B). He believes that the advice provided was 
unsuitable for him which has resulted in him suffering a significant financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr M was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do so he contacted CWM. 
Mr M met with CWM in February 2017, during which it gathered information about his 
financial circumstances, and again in July 2017. But as CWM didnt hold the relevant 
permission from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on the transfer of his 
defined benefits in the BSPS, it referred Mr M to Firm B. 
Firm B carried out further fact-finding and completed a transfer value analysis report 
(TVAS). Firm B then sent Mr M a recommendation letter on 24 August 2017 advising him to 
transfer out of the BSPS to a personal pension plan. It recommended he invest the funds 
with a business Ill refer to as M. £502,319.39 was transferred to his new pension and was 
invested with M. Mr M was referred back to CWM for ongoing advice and servicing of his 
pension.
In 2019 Mr M complained to both CWM and Firm B about the advice.
Firm B didnt uphold the complaint and Mr M referred his complaint about it to our service. 
However, whilst the complaint was with us, Firm B went into liquidation so Mr Ms complaint 
about this business has been referred to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS).
CWM told Mr M it hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his pension  it said it had 
referred him to Firm B.
Mr Ms representative asked our service to consider his complaint, saying CWM should be 
held liable for the advice. The representative said Mr M had only met with CWM  he didnt 
recall meeting with Firm B. It said Mr M had been verbally advised to transfer by CWM and 
he had relied on its advice.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He wasnt persuaded that CWM had advised 
Mr M to transfer his pension  he was satisfied that Mr M had only transferred his pension 
because Firm B advised him to do so. The investigator thought Mr Ms alleged loss had 
ultimately arisen due to Firm Bs actions.
Mr Ms representative didnt accept this. It maintained CWM had recommended that Mr M 
transfer his BSPS benefits to the pension plan with M and that CWM should be held liable 
for Mr Ms loss. It added that CWM didnt treat Mr M fairly by referring Mr M to Firm B as it 
should have known that defined-benefit pensions were valuable. The representative also 
said it was a joint venture between the two businesses, evidenced by the advice fee being 
split between the two firms.
As Mr M didnt accept the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms representatives says CWM should be held liable for the advice on three grounds:
CWM verbally advised Mr M to transfer his pension and Mr M relied upon that advice 
despite Firm Bs involvement  CWM should be held accountable for that advice.
There was a joint venture between CWM and Firm B and there is authority from our 
service and the courts to support joint liability for the advice.
Even if CWM is not liable for the losses as a result of Mr M transferring out of the 
BSPS, CWM was still obliged to treat him fairly and have due regard to his best 
interests.
Ill address each point in turn.
Did CWM advise Mr M to transfer?
Mr Ms representative says that CWM should be held liable for the advice because it went 
beyond its role of introducer. It says CWM persuaded Mr M to transfer his BSPS benefits 
and take out the pension with M before Firm Bs involvement and Mr M relied on its advice. It 
says this is supported by the fact the application form for the pension with M was signed in 
July 2017, before Mr M received advice from Firm B. It also says that a pension transfer 
questionnaire, also signed on 22 July 2017, addressed Mr Ms concerns about his BSPS 
benefits and it could only have been completed by CWM.
CWM did not have permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of defined-benefit 
occupational pension schemes. For this reason, it had an introducer agreement in place with 
Firm B. Im aware of a significant number of customers seeking advice on their BSPS 
benefits who were introduced by CWM to Firm B. I note that Mr Ms representative has said 
there is a pattern of behaviour that can be drawn from this. This is because the majority of 
these customers were advised to take out the pension with M, and many say that CWM 
sold this product to them before any involvement of Firm B. However, in considering Mr Ms 
case, Ive made my decision based on the evidence available to me in respect of Mr Ms 
interactions with CWM.
Having considered the information available, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence 
to show that CWM advised Mr M to transfer his BSPS benefits. Based on what Ive seen, 
CWM met with Mr M on a couple of occasions and it completed a fact-find and attitude to 
risk assessment. CWM didnt gather any information about Mr Ms objectives and I havent 
seen any evidence to show that CWM gave Mr M a personal recommendation. However, I do think its likely that CWM was operating on the presumption that Firm B would probably 
advise Mr M to transfer out of the BSPS. I say this because CWM produced an illustration for 
the pension with M on 7 July 2017  assuming that his BSPS benefits would be transferred 
to it  which is before Mr M had been formally introduced to Firm B. So, I think its possible 
Mr M had the impression that CWM was advocating for the transfer of his BSPS benefits to a 
personal pension. But I dont think that necessarily means CWM advised Mr M to take out 
the pension with M.
I think it was most likely CWM that introduced the product with M to Mr M and the adviser 
probably discussed the benefits of this with him. But ultimately Im persuaded that it was 
Firm B that recommended the pension plan with M and the transfer of his BSPS benefits. 
Mr M says he doesnt recall any involvement of Firm B, but the evidence Ive seen shows 
Firm B carried out an attitude to risk assessment with Mr M on 22 July 2017  this is signed 
by Mr M on that date. The pension transfer questionnaire was also completed for Firm B and 
was signed by Mr M and Firm Bs adviser on 22 July 2017. So, I think CWM had introduced 
Mr M to Firm B by that point and Firm B had started gathering the information it needed to 
give Mr M advice.
I note the application form for the pension was signed by the adviser at Firm B and Mr M on 
24 July 2017, which included the details of Mr Ms BSPS benefits to be transferred. Although 
this was before Firm B produced its recommendation letter in August 2017, I dont think that 
means the pension with M was recommended by CWM. It seems more likely to me that the 
application was made early in view of Ms deadline for new applications. And while Firm B 
didnt produce the recommendation letter until August 2017, it appears to have already 
decided by that point that it was going to be recommending Mr M transfer his BSPS benefits 
to M. So, while it was CWM that produced the illustration, I think it was only because of 
Firm Bs involvement that Mr M applied for the pension with M and transferred his BSPS 
benefits to it.
Mr M says he relied on his interactions with CWM when deciding whether to transfer his 
BSPS benefits. But Mr M couldnt have transferred based on these interactions with CWM 
alone. The transfer value quotation provided by the trustees of the BSPS stated that Mr M 
would be required to provide evidence that he had taken appropriate financial advice if he 
wanted to transfer his BSPS benefits to a flexible benefits scheme. This requirement was 
repeated in the transfer value discharge form, which further stated that Mr M would need to 
provide a signed confirmation from his adviser that such advice had been given. It is clear to 
me, based on the evidence Ive seen, that CWM did not issue any recommendation letter or 
suitability report to Mr M advising him to transfer out of BSPS. However, Firm B issued a 
suitability report addressed to Mr M recommending that he transfer out of the BSPS to a 
pension with M. So, Mr M couldnt have transferred out of BSPS based on the meetings he 
had with CWM or any verbal advice he feels he was given.
I accept that CWM received a substantial part of the advice fee following Mr Ms transfer, as 
a result of it introducing Mr M to Firm B. But, ultimately, Firm B gave the advice for Mr M to 
transfer, and I dont think CWMs earlier involvement automatically makes CWM liable for the 
suitability of the pension transfer advice provided by Firm B. 
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr M would have still opted to transfer his benefits 
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm B had advised him not to transfer. Mr Ms 
representative says Mr M was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with CWM. 
But on balance I dont think Mr M wouldve gone against the advice provided by Firm B. 
Mr M was a relatively inexperienced investor and the risk assessments carried out by both 
firms showed him to have a cautious attitude to risk. So, if Firm B had provided Mr M with 
clear advice in writing against transferring, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, I dont 
think Mr M wouldve acted against that advice purely based on his earlier discussions with 
CWM.In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Bs advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr M to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm B is responsible for 
Mr Ms losses flowing from the transfer. This includes the advice fee Mr M paid to CWM. 
I dont think CWM needs to refund this because Im satisfied the fee was only payable if the 
transfer of the BSPS benefits went ahead. And as it was Firm Bs advice that led to the 
transfer, this loss flows from that advice. Im aware that Firm B was declared in default by 
the FSCS, so Mr M will need to pursue a claim with the FSCS  I understand he is already in 
the process of doing so.
Did CWM and Firm B embark on a joint venture?
CWM states a joint venture existed between CWM and Firm B to facilitate Mr M transferring 
out of the BSPS and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial loss Mr M 
has suffered. It says that the joint venture primarily involved CWM verbally advising Mr M to 
transfer out of the BSPS before introducing him to Firm B to formally recommend the 
pension transfer to a new pension plan, before returning to CWM for ongoing advice. Due to 
the nature of the joint venture and the number of pension transfers likely carried out in this 
manner, the representative wants me to ascertain how many clients CWM introduced to 
Firm B and how many of those received a positive recommendation to transfer and were 
returned to CWM for ongoing advice.
I understand why Mr Ms representative has raised this concern  it seeks to establish a 
pattern that evidences the alleged joint venture. But Mr Ms representative will understand 
that the individual details of each case are always different  which is why this service 
decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. So, in deciding this complaint, Ill 
only look at the individual facts and merits applicable to Mr Ms personal dealings with CWM. 
I wont be considering CWMs alleged acts or omissions in other cases where it introduced 
individuals to Firm B. And I wont be considering the acts or omissions of Firm B in its 
dealing with Mr M because this complaint is about CWM rather than Firm B.
For the reasons Ive already set out above I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
CWM liable for the advice given to Mr M to transfer his BSPS benefits. Although Mr Ms 
representative states that Mr M was verbally advised to transfer by CWM, Im not persuaded 
that it gave him a personal recommendation. The evidence Ive seen shows that Firm B gave 
Mr M a personal recommendation to transfer out of the BSPS based on its own analysis. 
Firm B didnt rely on CWMs earlier fact-finding, but instead completed its own attitude to risk 
assessment, fact-find and pension transfer questionnaire. It also produced a TVAS report, 
which CWM did not. CWM didnt have permission from the FCA to advise on pension 
transfers, so Mr M could only have transferred his BSPS benefits as a result of Firm Bs 
advice. If Firm B had advised Mr M against transferring, I think he wouldve most likely 
followed that advice. So, I think Mr Ms losses flow from that advice, rather than because of 
any interaction he had with CWM before that. For this reason, I dont think CWM should be 
held liable for the advice on the basis that it was a joint venture between it and Firm B.
CWM did not treat Mr M fairly or have due regard to his best interests
Mr Ms representative has suggested that CWM didnt treat Mr M fairly or act in his best 
interests by partnering with Firm B as it did not carry out appropriate analysis of Firm B 
before referring Mr M to it. It argues CWM should have done so to prevent Mr M suffering 
detriment, as it ought to have been aware that defined-benefit pensions were valuable and 
that it wasnt usually in a customers best interests to transfer out.
As I have said above, CWM did not have the necessary regulatory permission to advise 
Mr M on the transfer of his BSPS benefits. So, I dont think it is fair to say that CWM should have advised Mr M against transferring, based on what it may have generally known about 
the regulators starting position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to 
transfer out. As CWM didnt have the necessary permissions, it referred Mr M to Firm B, 
which was regulated by the FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think CWM could 
reasonably be expected to carry out further due diligence on Firm B, particularly as Firm B 
had the necessary permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a regulated 
adviser, it was also required to treat Mr M fairly, act in his best interests and provide him with 
suitable advice.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was CWMs advice that ultimately led to 
Mr Ms decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm B. I am also not 
persuaded that CWM made an error or treated Mr M unfairly in the role it carried out.
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to require CWM to pay compensation to Mr M or to take any further action in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman