DRN-2761967
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wouldnt provide her with a loan at the interest rate 
she was advised when she contacted them by phone.
What happened
Ms M visited her local Santander branch and applied to extend her existing personal loan by 
a further £1,000. The interest rate offered by Santander to Ms M to do this was 18.9%, which 
Ms M felt was too high. So, she didnt accept the offer.
A few days later, Ms M telephoned Santander to clarify the interest rate and was told that the 
interest rate offered to her in branch was incorrect and that the correct rate of interest that 
she qualified for was 3%. Santanders advisor further explained that in order to accept the 
loan extension offer at this rate, Ms M would have to go into branch to sign for the loan.
Ms M revisited her local branch, but when she got there, she was told that the telephone 
advisor had made a mistake and that the actual rate of interest that she was being offered 
was still 18.9%. Ms M wasnt happy about this, so she made a complaint.
Santander looked at Ms Ms complaint. They agreed that their advisor had given Mr M the 
incorrect information on the telephone, so they upheld Ms Ms complaint and credited her 
account with £150 to compensate her for the inconvenience she had incurred. However, 
Santander confirmed that they wouldnt be able to offer Ms M the loan at 3% interest as she 
wanted, and that the higher rate of interest that she had been advised of still applied.
Ms M wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Santander 
werent obliged to offer the loan to Ms M with an interest rate of 3%, and that the £150 
compensation that Santander had already paid to Ms M was fair and reasonable for the 
inconvenience shed incurred. So, they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M has expressed her opinion that, because she was advised on the telephone by a 
Santander agent that the interest rate that she was eligible for was 3%, that Santander are 
obliged to honour that interest rate for the loan extension she applied for.
I can understand why Ms M might think this, but Im not satisfied that this is the case. Its for 
a business to decide whether it will lend to someone, and if so, how much and on what 
terms. And its clear from the information provided to me and the testimony of both Ms M and 
Santander, that Santander was offering Ms M the loan extension with an interest rate of 
18.9%, as explained to Ms M when she first made the application.
I can appreciate that it would have been frustrating for Ms M to have phoned Santander and 
been told that she was eligible for a lower rate of interest, and to have gone into branch 
specifically to take advantage of this lower rate. But Santander have explained that Ms M 
being advised of this lower rate of interest was because of a mistake made by the 
representative that Ms M spoke with on the telephone  specifically, it wasnt realised by the 
representative that the loan application was incomplete on Santanders system, which meant 
that the interest rate being displayed was still the representative rate, rather than the actual 
rate that Ms M qualified for as a result of her application.
Santander have confirmed that Ms M didnt qualify for the representative rate of 3% interest, 
and even though Ms M was mistakenly advised that she qualified for that rate, it wouldnt be 
expected by this service that Santander should offer the loan extension to Ms M at that lower 
interest rate.
Ms M has explained that, in her opinion, because she was offered that rate, Santander have 
to give that lower interest rate to her. But Im not convinced by the legitimacy of Ms Ms 
argument here, and Im satisfied that Santander are entitled to correct the mistake that was 
made and offer Ms M the loan at a rate for which she qualifies following Santanders loan 
application process.
However, its clear that Ms M was inconvenienced by being advised of the lower interest rate 
and by subsequently going into branch because of that mis-information, and I feel that its 
appropriate that Santander should have compensated Ms M for this. 
Santander have paid compensation of £150 to Ms M for the inconvenience that she incurred, 
and I can confirm that this is commensurate with what this service would expect here, given 
the circumstances. Im therefore satisfied that this represents a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint.
It follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Santander to take any 
further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Ms M was wanting, but 
I hope that she can understand, considering everything I have explained above, why I have 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman