DRN-3223306
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited unfairly declined Mr Cs 
terminal illness claim under Mrs Cs life assurance policy, and avoided the policy (treated the 
policy as if it had never existed). 
What happened
In January 2016, Mrs C and her husband Mr C had a call with an insurance intermediary, as 
they wanted to buy life cover. The intermediary asked Mr and Mrs C a series of health 
questions, including one about diabetes. Mr C was unsure how to answer this question so it 
was agreed he would seek clarification from his GP. Mr C later spoke to the intermediary 
again, and answered the diabetes question as no.
The application progressed, and a whole of life assurance policy provided by insurer Scottish 
Friendly started on 14 January 2016. Mrs C was the policyholder, and the policy provided life 
and terminal illness cover for Mr and Mrs C. On 15 January 2016, the intermediary sent 
Mrs C a letter enclosing the application questions and the answers submitted on behalf of 
Mr and Mrs C. 
In September 2020, Mr C was sadly diagnosed with stomach cancer. In March 2021, Mr C 
made a terminal illness claim under the policy. Scottish Friendly declined the claim and 
avoided the policy because it thought Mr C made misrepresentations by not disclosing his 
diabetes, sub arachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) and kidney problems at the time of the 
application. Scottish Friendly refunded the premiums Mrs C had paid.
Mr and Mrs C complained about Scottish Friendly, as they thought it had treated them 
unfairly by declining the claim and avoiding the policy. Scottish Friendly said it had acted 
correctly, as the application questions meant Mr C should have disclosed a number of 
medical issues including SAH, diabetes mellitus, diabetes insipidus, and symptoms and 
investigations he was having at the time. Scottish Friendly said it wouldnt have offered Mr C 
cover if hed answered all the application questions correctly.
Mr and Mrs C complained about how the intermediary recorded the answers Mr C gave to 
the application questions. The intermediary said it had accurately asked the application 
questions and accurately recorded Mr Cs answers, explained the importance of answering 
correctly to Mr and Mrs C, and gave Mr C the opportunity to seek clarification from his GP 
regarding his diabetes. The intermediary said it had sent Mr and Mrs C the application 
answers submitted on their behalf and asked them to check they were correct. 
Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to our Service. Scottish Friendly provided us with its 
comments and evidence, including its underwriting criteria. Mr and Mrs C also provided 
comments and evidence. To summarise the relevant points Mr and Mrs C made, they said 
they werent ever told Mr Cs SAH was a stroke, and provided comments from Mr Cs 
endocrinologist that SAH wasnt classified as a stroke. Mr Cs endocrinologist also 
commented that Mr C had a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus when he applied for the policy, so 
he should have answered the diabetes question as yes. 
Mr and Mrs C suggested they werent aware of Mr Cs diabetes mellitus diagnosis, and said 
he wasnt being treated for it when he applied for the policy. They provided letters from 
Mr Cs GP saying Mr C was diagnosed with diabetes mellitus in 2010 and treated for it 
between 2014 and 2020, though he wasnt treated with insulin for all of this period, because 
after April 2015 Mr C was only given insulin during a hospital admission in October 2015. 
Mr and Mrs C said Mr C didnt have kidney disease. They provided scan results from 2020 to 
support this, and letters from two hospitals confirming Mr C wasnt treated for kidney disease 
between 2010 and 2015. Mr Cs GP provided a further letter confirming Mr C had diabetes 
insipidus and diabetes mellitus, and his electrolytes needed frequent checking. And that he 
had chronic kidney disease, which was at stage 4 in December 2012 but wouldnt 
necessarily involve extra treatment other than observing his diet and avoiding certain drugs. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold this complaint. Ultimately, he said the intermediary was acting 
on behalf of Scottish Friendly and hadnt made an error here. He thought Scottish Friendly 
was unreasonable to conclude Mr C made misrepresentations when answering the stroke 
and kidney disorder application questions. But was reasonable to conclude Mr C made 
misrepresentations when he answered the diabetes, investigations and conditions and 
symptoms application questions. Therefore he thought Scottish Friendly was entitled to 
decline the claim and avoid the policy. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with our Investigator and reiterated some of the points theyd 
previously made to our Service. They said a medical record dated December 2012 showed
Mr Cs kidneys were normal. And that theyd answered the application questions truthfully.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly say how sorry I am to hear of Mr Cs health problems, and I recognise this is 
a very upsetting and worrying time for Mr and Mrs C. While I dont wish to cause them any 
further distress, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Before I explain my reasons, I should first acknowledge that both parties have provided a 
great deal of detailed comments and evidence for me to consider. My decision wont mention 
all of this evidence. I mean no discourtesy by this and Id like to reassure both parties that I 
have carefully considered everything Ive been provided with. But my decision will only 
address the comments and evidence I think are relevant to reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint.  
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Scottish Friendly thinks Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when answering several of the policy application questions. To think about whether this was 
a reasonable conclusion for Sottish Friendly to reach, Ive considered what Mr C was asked, 
the answers he gave, and the medical evidence Ive been provided with.
I see the intermediary only arranges policies for Scottish Friendly, so it is acting for Scottish 
Friendly. The intermediarys role was to accurately ask the application questions on behalf of 
Scottish Friendly and accurately record the answers Mr C gave. 
In Mr and Mrs Cs calls with the intermediary, I can hear Mr C was asked the question:
In the last five years have you had symptoms of, been diagnosed with or treated for: 
Diabetes, Impaired Glucose Tolerance, Impaired Fasting Glucose, hepatitis or any condition 
affecting your liver, stomach, bowel, gallbladder or pancreas?
I think this question is clear. Its important to note the question doesnt just ask about 
whether diabetes has been diagnosed. It also asks if there have been any symptoms of 
diabetes or treatment for it. When initially answering this question, Mr C said They thought I 
was diabetic but they were wrong, I wasnt. The intermediary asked if that meant Mr C had 
symptoms of diabetes or been treated for it in the last five years. Mr C said Yes I had, they 
thought I was diabetic but it was all wrong. The intermediary asked Mr C whether hed like 
to answer yes or no to the diabetes question. Mr C said No, no, no. Its no isnt it, because 
Im not diabetic. The intermediary later asked Mr C again if hed had tests and investigations 
for diabetes, even though he didnt have it. Mr C was adamant he didnt have diabetes. And 
Mrs C said hed been given tablets but that he had another test and it was found he wasnt 
diabetic. 
Its fair to say Mr and Mrs C told the intermediary Mr C didnt have diabetes. But they also 
mentioned tablets and tests for it. However, ultimately it was for Mr C to decide what the 
correct answer to this question was. Given Mr Cs uncertainty about how to answer it, the 
intermediary prompted him to seek clarification with his GP and gave him time to do that 
before completing the application. The intermediary reminded Mr and Mrs C they needed to 
answer the questions correctly because cover was based on the information they provided 
and incorrect information might invalidate the cover. In a later call, the intermediary checked 
Mr C had received clarification from his GP and asked Mr C the diabetes question again in 
full. Mr C gave his final answer of No, no. The intermediary accurately recorded this. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think the intermediary made an error here. 
Mr Cs medical records show his final answer of no to the diabetes question wasnt correct. 
Mr Cs GP says he was diagnosed with diabetes mellitus in 2010 and was treated for this at 
points after 2014. In addition, Mr Cs medical records include:
A letter dated 9 May 2013 from a hospital diabetes and endocrine clinic to Mr Cs GP. It 
noted Mr C has a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus type 2 that isnt optimally controlled, and 
that Mr C has started insulin, and restarted metformin and gliptins  these are all 
medicines used to treat diabetes mellitus. The letter said Mr C would be reviewed at his 
local diabetes clinic and reviewed at the hospital clinic in three months. 
A letter dated 5 October 2015 from a hospital diabetes and endocrine clinic to Mr Cs 
GP. It noted Mr C had a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus type 2, and that Mr and Mrs C 
had attended the clinic. It expressed surprise that Mr C had stopped insulin in March 2015, as he was on large doses. The letter said I explained that the diabetes mellitus 
does not disappear; maybe it is [redacted] controlled. We will do bloods today and 
comment. The letter went on to say Bloods today showedhis diabetes mellitus is 
little [sic] out of control, definitely he does not need insulin but may be gliptin may help. 
It noted the plan was to Please consider prescribing Linagliptin to improve diabetes 
control., and that a copy of the letter was sent to Mr C.
A hospital discharge summary shows Mr C was admitted to hospital for a week in late 
October 2015, with a diagnosis of hyperglycaemic hyperosmolar state (a complication of 
diabetes mellitus). It notes Mr C was prescribed metformin and his GP was to monitor 
his urea, electrolytes and sugars.
A letter dated 13 January 2016 from Mr Cs consultant in diabetes and endocrinology to 
Mr Cs GP. The letter said Mr C had attended the clinic for review and noted in late 2015 
Mr C had developed hyperosmolar diabetes and was treated in hospital for this with 
insulin, then discharged with a prescription of metformin. And that after Mr Cs supply of 
metformin ran out, hed been managing on his diet with Mrs C regularly monitoring his 
blood glucose at home. Mr C was advised to stop glucose monitoring.
As I say, the application question doesnt only ask about a diagnosis of diabetes, but also 
asks about any symptoms of or treatment for diabetes. Based on Mr Cs medical history, its 
clear he had a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus, and had also experienced significant 
symptoms of it and received treatment for it in the months before his policy application. So 
even if, after asking his GP for clarification, Mr C thought at the time of his policy application 
that he didnt have diabetes, he should still have answered the diabetes question as yes 
because hed had diabetes symptoms and been treated for it within the last five years. 
At the start of the policy, the intermediary wrote to Mrs C enclosing a statement of fact. The 
letter said It is important that you check the information we have collected about you is 
correct, as your policy could be invalid if there are any errors. The statement of fact says 
The cover that we have been able to offer you is based on the information you provided. It's 
important that you check the information below is correct, as your policy can be invalid if 
there are any errors. Incorrect information may result in the non-payment of a claim. You 
have confirmed your acceptance of this when you applied for [our] Life Insurance. If any 
information below is incorrect, please call us on [our telephone number]. It then lists the 
application questions and the answers submitted on Mr and Mrs Cs behalf. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Mr or Mrs C contacted Scottish Friendly to correct any of the application 
answers submitted for Mr C.
For these reasons, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Scottish Friendly to conclude Mr C 
didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when answering the diabetes 
question. Scottish Friendly thinks Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he answered a number of the other policy application questions too. 
And Mr and Mrs C have provided comments and evidence to support their argument that 
Mr C didnt make a misrepresentation regarding these other questions. 
I dont need to consider the other disputed misrepresentations because, as I say, Im 
satisfied Mr C didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when answering 
the diabetes question. And Ive seen that this particular misrepresentation made a difference 
by itself, so it was a qualifying misrepresentation. I say that because the underwriting criteria 
Scottish Friendly has provided shows it wouldnt have offered this policy if Mr C hadnt made 
this misrepresentation. CIDRA says a qualifying misrepresentation can be categorised as either careless or 
deliberate or reckless. Scottish Friendly hasnt specified how its categorised this 
misrepresentation. But as I say, Im satisfied Scottish Friendly wouldnt have offered this 
policy if not for Mr Cs misrepresentation. Under CIDRA, Scottish Friendly is therefore 
entitled to avoid the policy. If the misrepresentation was careless CIDRA would require 
Scottish Friendly to refund the premiums in this situation, but its already done this.
So Scottish Friendly has acted in line with CIDRA. Therefore I dont think it needs to do 
anything further regarding this claim or policy, though I realise this will be a very great 
disappointment for Mr and Mrs C.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman