DRN-3766677
The complaint
Mr E complains that FACET INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LTD (FACET), in its role as his 
discretionary fund manager (DFM), invested the funds within his personal pension 
inappropriately. 
In this complaint Mr E is represented by a professional third-party, but for clarity Ill refer to 
all communications as being made by Mr E himself.
What happened
Mr E was a longstanding client of FACET who managed his pension funds. On 18 August 
2013 Mr E signed up to FACETs DFM service and his attitude to investment risk (ATR) was 
assessed and found to be Cautious/Moderate. His pension funds were invested in a portfolio 
held by a third-party business.
In 2016 FACET wrote to Mr E informing him that it had opened investment portfolios of its 
own and intended to move his pension funds into these portfolios, invested in funds suitable 
for his ATR. FACET advised Mr E that if he didnt wish to have his investments moved in this 
way, or had any questions he should contact it. He made no contact, so his funds were 
invested in the FACET Cautious and Balanced Discretionary Portfolios. These Portfolios 
were classed as Non-UCITS Retail Schemes (NURS). The funds within these portfolios were 
managed by a third-party Fund Manager, who Ill refer to in this decision as W.
In September 2019 one of the underlying investments in the portfolio was re-valued by the 
Fund Manager W, and due to funding issues, the funds were suspended, meaning no 
changes to the investment could be made.
On 23 September 2021 Mr E complained to FACET. He said, in summary:
He was not adequately informed of the intentions regarding the move to the FACET 
Balanced and Cautious funds;
He wasnt adequately informed of the type of investment his funds were being placed 
into;
He questioned the ongoing suitability of the portfolio;
The value of his pension had suffered a loss as a result of errors made by FACET, 
and he should be compensated for this loss by making a comparison to the growth of 
a benchmark (IA Mixed Investment 20-60% shares).
FACET didnt uphold his complaint. It said it believed it acted responsibly and fairly towards 
Mr E as his DFM and the funds selected were appropriate for him and in line with his ATR.
Mr E wasnt happy with this response so complained to our service. He thought FACET 
should compensate him for the capital lost from his pension plan, lost investment growth and 
for the distress the matter has caused him.
But having considered everything, our Investigator didnt think Mr Es complaint should be 
upheld. He thought, in summary, that the investments selected by FACET when the portfolio 
was moved in 2016 were suitable for him and matched his ATR. And while he empathised 
that Mr E had received most, but not all of his money back, this asset sale was being 
managed by W, and FACET had no control over this.
Mr E didnt agree with the Investigators view. He said that the FE Risk Score chart relating to 
his funds showed a spike from about 35 (Cautious/Moderate) to over 70 (High) in 2019. This, 
Mr E asserted, showed his portfolio was not being managed within his risk profile.
He went on to say, in summary:
Constructing a portfolio which requires daily liquidity with NURS rather than UCITS 
was unsuitable;
When the portfolio was changed in 2016, it moved from retail UCITS to NURS and 
unregulated investments, so he was not placed into a fully informed position to 
understand the consequences of the move;
Had he been invested in underlying retail investments suitable for his ATR, his fund 
wouldnt have had liquidity problems.
But having considered what Mr E had said, and having received further information from 
FACET regarding the assets held within the two funds, our Investigator didnt change his 
mind. He thought that the balanced and cautious FACET funds matched Mr Es ATR, 
despite the spike in the FE Risk Score chart in 2019. He could see this had been caused by 
Ws re-valuation of one of the underlying investments and the funds suspension, and this 
had been out of FACETs control. Our Investigator also thought, in summary:
the NURS was a collective investment scheme and risk rated in the same way 
UCITS is;
no derivatives or borrowing was used;
the underlying investment holdings within the NURS between 2016 and 2020, all of 
which were regulated, were suitable and matched his ATR.
No agreement could be reached, so the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the view of the Investigator that Mr Es complaint shouldnt be 
upheld, for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain.
I think it would be helpful to explain some of the investment products mentioned above.
UCITS  undertakings for collective investments in transferable securities. This is a 
European Union (EU) regulatory framework that allows collective investment schemes to be 
marketed and sold to investors throughout the world. Funds regulated under UCITS carry 
particular regulatory and investor protection requirements, which can make them attractive to 
investors.
NURS  Non-UCITS Retail Schemes. Considered more complex than UCITS as the assets 
allowed to be held within the fund may be harder to price and may be more illiquid. DFM  Discretionary Fund Manager. This is where the consumer gives the business the 
power to make investment decisions without having to ask the consumers permission.
It is important to note that this was a DFM agreement. FACET was under no obligation to 
ask for Mr Es approval or permission when it came to his investments. So the change made 
in 2016, if it didnt mean a change in the overall risk his investments were exposed to, did 
not require Mr Es agreement. However, FACET was required to ensure it complied with the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook, COBS 2.1.1R, part of the Conduct of Business 
rules, which required a regulated business such as FACET to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The crux of Mr Es complaint is that the FACET portfolios into which his pension funds were 
placed in 2016 were inappropriate, and he has stressed that he should have been in UCITS 
and not NURS, given the increased risks of illiquidity associated with the latter. Mr E 
maintains that had they been placed in a more appropriate portfolio his pension funds would 
have grown in value. 
So I need to decide whether the portfolios selected by FACET into which it invested Mr Es 
pension fund were suitable. 
Whether a UCITS or NURS, the investment portfolio needs to be risk-rated, and this risk 
rating should match the ATR of the consumer. In Mr Es case, in 2013 when his ATR was 
assessed, it showed he was Cautious/Moderate. He was 51 when he signed the DFM 
agreement and 54 when his funds were transferred into the FACET portfolios, so as he was 
some way from his normal retirement date the investment horizon needed to be relatively 
long. 
Ive looked at the fund fact sheets for both the Cautious and Balanced Discretionary 
Portfolios which Mr Es pension funds were invested in from 2016 onwards. These are 
produced by the fund managers and give an indication of the level of risk the fund represents 
to the consumer. These have been rated 3/7 and 4/7 respectively. Both portfolios were also 
regarded as long-term, which was upwards of three to five years. So, when taken together 
Im satisfied that they broadly match Mr Es ATR and investment objective.   
It would be helpful here to add some commentary to the cautious/Moderate ATR that Mr E 
was recorded as having in 2013. This was described by FACET in a risk document signed 
by Mr E on 18 August 2013:
You are looking for an investment where the return over the long term is expected to 
be an improvement on that available from high street deposit accounts.
You are willing to take some risk in order to seek some growth potential. You 
understand that this will increase the amount by which your investment will fall and 
rise in value. However, under normal circumstances, you would feel uncomfortable if 
your investments fell and rose sharply in value. You could get back less than you 
invest.
Typically, your portfolio would be primarily invested in Cash and Fixed Interest, some 
in Property and a lower amount in Equities.It described the benchmark allocations for Cautious Managed as follows:
Investing in a range of assets with the maximum equity exposure restricted to 60% 
and with at least 30% invested in fixed interest and cash. There is no specific 
requirement to hold a minimum % of non UK equity within the equity limits. Assets 
must be at least 50% in Sterling/Euro.
So for me to accept that the portfolios selected by FACET matched Mr Es ATR Id expect 
them to follow the above. And having reviewed the information supplied about the portfolios, 
Im satisfied that they do. There is a range of investments between equities (and this is 
within the necessary proportion) income investments and cash investments.  
Whilst accepting that both were NURS, Im satisfied that the FACET Cautious, and FACET 
Balanced discretionary portfolios were suitable for Mr E when his funds were transferred in 
2016. 
But FACET, as Mr Es advisors and DFM had to ensure that the portfolios remained within 
his risk tolerance. And Mr E has shown that the risk ratings rose sharply in 2019 to well in 
excess of his ATR. FACET has explained that the spike was caused by the Fund Manager 
W re-valuing one of the underlying investments, and the funds being suspended. Having 
looked at the timeline of events and reviewed FACETs explanation of this I find it 
persuasive. I cant see that the risk rating of either fund had changed significantly up until 
that point so remained within his risk tolerance. And on balance Im satisfied neither the 
problems with the valuation of one of the assets nor the funds suspension, was reasonably 
foreseeable by FACET. And as this was under the control of W, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to hold FACET responsible for this.
Its important to note that I consider that theres sometimes more than one product or 
approach that might meet the consumers circumstances and objectives. Another adviser 
might take a different approach, but that doesnt mean the portfolios selected in 2016 by 
FACET were unsuitable. 
Taking everything into account, I think the switch to the FACET Cautious and FACET 
Balanced Discretionary portfolios was broadly suitable for Mr E. I appreciate he now has 
concerns with the illiquidity of many of the assets within the portfolios, and the resulting 
difficulty hes had in recovering all of his initial investment, but I cannot use the benefit of 
hindsight in coming to my decision. The issues hes experienced with the investments 
subsequently doesnt mean the switch in 2016 was unsuitable. 
For all of the reasons above Im satisfied that it would not be fair or reasonable to hold 
FACET responsible for the lack of investment growth within Mr Es pension fund, so I do not 
uphold his complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman