DRN-3123280
The complaint
Mr K complains about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of his motor insurance claim.
What happened
Mr K had a motor insurance policy with esure. In August 2020, he was involved in a road 
accident with a third party who drove from the scene without stopping. Mr Ks car was written 
off in the accident. 
Mr K said he has no concerns with the settlement esure gave him for his car. However, 
hes unhappy that it failed to get video footage of the accident. He says this compromised his 
ability to recover his uninsured losses from the third partys insurer. He estimated these 
losses  his policy excess, costs of transport from the accident, increase to his insurance 
premium following his claim, and his own reasonable out of pocket expenses  at £650, 
plus the added distress and inconvenience of having to follow this up himself.
esure told Mr K it had asked the Highways Agency (now called National Highways, but at the 
time of the accident Highways England) for video footage of the accident. The footage it 
provided didnt show the accident clearly but did show the registration of the third party 
vehicle. It told Mr K that it wasnt responsible if Highways England had sent the wrong 
footage and said it was still investigating the claim.
Mr K was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He said, in summary:
Highways England told him there was clear video footage of the accident.
esure should have realised it had been sent the wrong footage when it reviewed the 
video it was sent.
esure should then have contacted Highways England to get the right footage.
Its failure to do so caused him financial detriment as well as distress and 
inconvenience.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. He agreed with 
esure that the video footage was inconclusive and thought its handling of the claim was fair. 
Mr K disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, since Mr K complained to this service, the third partys insurer has settled with esure. 
esure told us:
Whilst the third party have settled the costs, they havent confirmed an admission of 
liability as they have reviewed the footage and cant determine any collision which is 
true [sic], however they have settled on the basis that it was probable their clients 
vehicle was involved.
esure has closed the claim as non-fault, refunded Mr Ks policy excess, and allowed his no 
claims bonus. Separately, Mr K has settled his claim with the third party insurer for £125. 
However, he believes hed have been able to settle this for £250 if esure had acted more 
quickly.
I recognise that this was a shocking experience for Mr K. My decision isnt meant to 
underplay this. But Ive got to decide if esure handled Mr Ks claim badly or did anything 
wrong. Having reviewed the evidence, I dont think it did. 
Highways England sent esure the footage it had of the accident. esure reviewed this and 
couldnt see anything that clearly showed the accident or show that the third party was at 
fault. Ive reviewed the video and I agree with esure. The accident appears to have 
happened on the opposite side of the motorway with traffic moving away from the camera. 
This makes it incredibly difficult to see exactly what happened.
Mr K says this was the wrong footage. But Im not convinced it was. And even if this is true, I 
dont think esure could reasonably think there was any other video footage of the accident. 
esure asked Highways England for video and this is what it received.
esure settled Mr Ks claim for his car and continued to investigate the claim. The third partys 
insurer eventually settled the claim. esure refunded Mr Ks excess and recorded the claim as 
non-fault. 
I understand that Mr K is frustrated that this took a long time to resolve but negotiations 
between insurers can sometimes take several months, particularly where liability is disputed. 
And I dont see that Mr K has incurred a financial loss or that esures actions influenced the 
settlement he was able to negotiate with the third partys insurer.
Given the circumstances, I think esure investigated Mr Ks claim fairly. I wont be asking it to 
do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman