DRN-3994417
The complaint
Mr J complains about problems he had when trying to deposit a cheque to his account using 
the HSBC UK Bank Plc mobile banking application.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts of what happened arent really in dispute; its the level of compensation I 
must consider. So instead I will concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In early December 2022 Mr J tried to deposit a cheque to his account using the HSBC 
mobile banking application. However there was a problem using the application so Mr J 
contacted HSBC by an online web chat and then over the telephone. HSBC couldnt resolve 
the problem but after the phone call Mr J turned his phone off and on and was able to use 
the application to deposit the cheque. Overall Mr J says it took about an hour of his time to 
fix the problem and the situation was frustrating. 
Mr J says the problem mustve been with HSBC as he didnt have trouble with any other 
banking applications on his phone. HSBC say they have no records of faults with the 
application at that time. Because of the two different version of events its hard to say what 
was causing the problem. Either way Im glad Mr J was able to resolve the problem by 
turning his phone off and on again.
HSBC have offered £30 for the inconvenience caused so Ive thought about whether this is a 
fair and reasonable payment for what happened.
When dealing with our Investigator Mr J said The money is of little interest to me, the lack of 
service is the problem. In another email he said I honestly dont think £30 reflects the level of 
inconvenience incurred.
When something goes wrong like this I need to think about the impact on the consumer. Its 
not always necessary to know or be sure of how, or why, something happened. Its the 
impact on the consumer that is important.
Mr J says it took about an hour to resolve the problem using the online webchat and by 
calling HSBC. I cant say what or who caused the problem, and even if I hold HSBC 
accountable, I think £30 is fair for an issue that was resolved within an hour or so. 
When thinking about compensation I need to take into account that we all experience 
inconvenience in our day-to-day lives. And there are things that cause a certain level of 
frustration and annoyance. To make a higher award Id need to be persuaded that what 
happened was above part of what we all might experience in everyday life. And I dont think 
thats the case here so the £30 is a fair and reasonable payment.
Mr J told us The problem was only resolved when I turned my phone on and off. HSBC 
hadnt offered that solution. This might be the case, and perhaps HSBC shouldve suggested 
this as a solution in the telephone call. But I cant say how this made a difference to what 
happened as Mr J turned his phone off and on of his own accord after the telephone call 
which is the same as what he wouldve done if HSBC told him to do so. Therefore the 
situation, and the impact, is the same.  
Mr J also raised issues such as saying HSBC should have more branches open and have 
more accessible car parking. As our Investigator explained these are commercial decisions 
made by HSBC and something I cant comment on in this decision.  
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied £30 is a fair and 
reasonable payment for the inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr J £30 for the inconvenience of what happened. 
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £30 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £30 to Mr J.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman