DRN-4421328
The complaint
Miss L has complained that AWP P&C SA (AWP) gave her incorrect information when she 
called to enquire about a claim.
All references to AWP include any agents acting on its behalf. 
What happened
Miss L has a travel insurance policy through her bank account, underwritten by AWP. 
Unfortunately, the airline Miss L was travelling with lost her sons luggage which contained 
his medication (preventative inhaler). Miss L called AWP and was told her costs for replacing 
this would be covered. But when AWP assessed the claim, it only paid £250 which it said 
was the policy limit for her claim circumstances. 
Miss L complained and AWP apologised, accepted it had given Miss L incorrect information 
and offered to pay £50 compensation. It concluded that although it had provided Miss L with 
incorrect information, she would always have needed to obtain a replacement inhaler at the 
same cost. Unhappy, Miss L referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but found that AWP had correctly settled the claim 
in line with the policy terms. She found that the £50 offered was reasonable and agreed that 
Miss L would always have needed to obtain the replacement inhaler even if AWP had 
advised that the costs wouldnt be covered under the insurance policy.
Miss L disagreed and said if she had been told the costs wouldnt be covered then she 
would have considered alternative ways of obtaining a replacement inhaler which would not 
have cost her over £1,000. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
I have carefully considered everything Miss L has said but in my decision, I will only 
focus on what I consider to be key. This decision relates to Miss Ls claim for the 
replacement medication. 
The relevant policy terms confirm AWP will pay: Up to £250 for the purchase of 
essential items if your baggage is lost or misplaced by the carrier on the outward 
journey.
AWP accepts it provided Miss L with incorrect and misleading information when she 
called. She was told that all her costs for replacing her sons medication would be 
covered. She paid in excess of £1,000 for a consultation with a doctor and for the 
replacement inhaler. 
AWPs policy also confirms it doesnt cover: Expenses incurred in obtaining or 
replacing medication, which you were taking or knew would be required or needed to 
be continued outside your home country when you started your trip. 
As there is a clear exclusion, I dont think the policy terms cover Miss Ls costs. Ive 
also thought about the information Miss L was provided with and whether she acted 
on the advice given, and whether that caused her a financial loss. 
Miss L was told her costs would be covered so she was expecting to be reimbursed 
for over £1,000. But she only received a total of £250 in line with the policy limits for 
the replacement of essential items. She says had she not been told that she was 
covered for the cost of replacing the medication, she would have tried to find a 
different solution, such as Gumtree or Fedex from the UK. It was a preventative 
inhaler which is ideally used daily but doesnt have to be. 
Ive carefully considered what Miss L has said about her alternative options. I dont 
think she would be able to obtain a prescription medicine using Gumtree. And even 
though the inhaler was a preventative inhaler, I havent seen any medical evidence to 
show that it didnt have to be used daily. Additionally, there are regulations around 
shipping prescription medicines abroad. Even if Miss L did manage to use Fedex, 
this would have taken a number of days to arrive, and she would have had to contact 
her GP to request the medication and arrange the parcel. I dont think these are 
reasonable or plausible alternatives and I am not persuaded Miss L would have 
acted differently. As the inhaler was prescribed to be used daily, she would always 
have needed to obtain a replacement in the way that she did. 
Finally, Miss L has said AWP took too long to deal with matters and she kept chasing 
when she was told to write to customer services who responded after four months. 
As this specifically relates to complaints handling, which isnt a regulated activity, I 
cannot comment on this in my decision. I can consider the time period of when AWP 
declined the claim, which was one month, as set out by our investigator. I dont think 
that was an unreasonable timeframe.
AWP offered £50 compensation for providing incorrect information. I think this is 
appropriate for the shock Miss L would have experienced when she was told the 
claim wouldnt be covered in full. And as already explained, I am not persuaded that 
Miss L would have done anything differently had AWP provided her with the correct 
information when she first called. Its up to Miss L to contact AWP if she would now 
like to accept the compensation offered. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint as I think AWP P&C SAs offer 
of £50 compensation is reasonable.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman