DRN-3765751
The complaint
Mr P complains about his home emergency insurance policy with British Gas. 
Any reference to British Gas includes the actions of any agents  such as engineers, acting 
on their behalf.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr P and British Gas. In my decision, 
Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr P had a home emergency insurance policy with British Gas. As well as having a contract 
of insurance with British Gas, Mr P was entitled to an annual boiler service. Mr P says as 
result of the most recent boiler service, his underfloor hearting stopped working. British Gas 
arranged a number of further visits but ultimately said that underfloor heating wasnt covered 
under the policy.
Mr P complained to British Gas. In their final response letter they again said that underfloor 
heating wasnt covered and that their engineers wouldnt have interfered with any controls 
related to the underfloor heating system. Mr P remained unhappy and referred his complaint 
to our Service for an independent review. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but she recommended that it not be upheld. Mr P 
didnt accept her findings and the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Where theres an 
alternative version of events between both parties, Ive to reach my decision based on what I 
think is more likely than not  based on the available evidence. 
Was the loss or damage Mr P is claiming for caused by the actions of British Gas agents?
British Gas have said to service the boiler, their engineer needed to isolate the boiler  by 
turning off the power supply to it. Theyve further said theyd no business in interfering with 
any controls related to the underfloor heating. Mr P on the other hand, says since the power 
to the boiler was turned off, his underfloor heating stopped working. 
Based on the evidence, Im not persuaded that British Gas are responsible for the 
associated issues with the underfloor heating. I say this because (even though Mr P has said 
that previous power cuts didnt result in the problems described here) if turning off the power 
to the boiler resulted in the fault that Mr P has described, its reasonable to assume that any 
future incident of the power being turned off to the boiler could have possibly resulted in the 
same end result here. Whilst not an expert in heating systems, this suggests to me that 
either:
 there may have been an underlying issue (prior to the service) that the power cut 
ultimately showed; or 
 the system not working is due to another cause such as trapped air, blockages, 
problems with pipes or a leak; or
 the underfloor heating failure was purely coincidental timing and unrelated to the 
power to the boiler being turned off.
Ive not seen sufficiently supporting persuasive evidence to conclude, on balance, that 
British Gas are responsible for the problems with the underfloor heating. I dont uphold this 
complaint for this reason.
Is the damage or loss Mr P is claiming for covered under this policy?
Ive then considered whether any part of the policy should respond to the issues with the 
underfloor heating. 
Underfloor heating isnt covered under this policy. The relevant exclusion is outlined under 
the Whats not covered section:
Any controls designed specifically for underfloor heating
Any parts that are designed specifically for underfloor heating
Therefore I dont find that British Gas did anything wrong when relying on this exclusion and 
I dont uphold this complaint for this reason. 
How have British Gas treated Mr P overall?
Finally, Ive considered how British Gas have treated Mr P overall. The evidence shows that 
when made aware of the underfloor heating issue they listened and efficiently arranged a 
number of further visits to his property to understand what the problem was. I consider this 
fair, reasonable and  as outlined above, the insurance policy didnt need to respond to the 
underfloor heating failure as it wasnt covered. 
I dont uphold this complaint for this reason. 
Whilst my decision may disappoint Mr P, it brings to an end our Services involvement in 
trying to informally resolve this dispute between Mr P and British Gas. Whilst our Service 
cant advise Mr P of what to do next, he may be able to speak to the installer/fitter or the 
manufacturer of the underfloor heating system about his next steps. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman